---
heading: Part 1
title: "The Wizard's Hat"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1996-09-21
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 15
tags: ['chakras']
---




### The Chakra Cycle and Life Patterns

As we understand it, been given to you as a visual aid in this transmission will be represented of a couple of tools that you can utilize in your physiological reality for new understanding, new application, new effects in your life.

What you will see as the diagram that has to do with the chakra cycles basically is outlined as follow. Many of you are familiar with the idea that the chakras are energy centers in the body and that your physiological body fundamentally contains seven major energy centers that are responsible for the flow of certain kinds of frequency, certain kinds of energies that you deal with that aim assist you in balancing your overall ability to function in your day-to-day physiological reality.

And many of you already understand that as you grow, as you mature, as you explore, as you evolve, that you experience each and every one of these specific energy centers as being dominant in a particular time of your life. And as you go up the ladder, so to speak, up the scale of the energy centers, the chakra systems, you integrate them ideally one by one into a balanced state that allows you to function more holistically in your reality to create more effortlessly all the things that are necessary for you to create in your lifetime.

This idea is a literal extension now of this concept to show you that there is a one to one correspondence to the idea of each and every year of your life with the concept of exactly how you go through these seven systems, these chakra centers in your body. There are of course more than seven in the sense that they extend beyond your body but for now this deals mainly with the idea of your physiological form because in the physiological reality the cycle is seven and thus is what determines the pattern of cycles of seven years. Thus you can see from this chart as you hold it the idea being that as you are in your first year of physical existence. You explore for the first time the energy that is representative of the first chakra which is fundamentally the idea connection foundation making the connection to your culture to your reality in a sense survival learning to connect and survive in your physiological world as a spirit.

Thus you then year by year go up the ladder incorporating new understandings of emotionality and intention and love and expression and seeing and spirituality and so forth. As you mature in your first seven years of life, of course you must go through the chakra cycle for the first time. But as you reach your seventh year, you will understand that what you have done by going through it for the first time is that you have experienced all these different levels of energy within the idea of the expression of the energy of the first chakra. So in other words, even though you may in your seventh year be exploring the concept of activating your spiritual crown chakra, the idea is that you're doing it within the purpose and within the energy of completing your connection to physiological reality in your idea of forming this bond and foundation for the rest of your life.

Then as you go from your eighth year to your 14th year and enter what you call your puberty, the idea is that you are now repeating the idea of exploring all seven chakras. But you are now doing it within the context of expanding each one and doing it within the context of the second level energy. That is thus making connection to the idea of relationship. Learning what that is all about. Expressing your emotionality, informing relationship with new friends, moving out into the world as you say, starting to go to school and learning to meet new people and increasing your parameter of the kinds of relationships that you have beyond your family and so on up the scale for each seven chakra systems that you go through. And in each cycle you are moving up slowly through the chakra system as well by exploring all seven in that modality in each chakra modality.

As you do this and go up the scale and 7 * 7 in your 49th year you have completed the first grand cycle of life. And in a sense you then begin over but you begin on a higher level again in the overiding energy much more advanced of course of the second grand cycle chakra thus exploring new concepts of relationship and connected to perhaps other dimensions other realities parallelized so on and so forth much more concretely than you may have done in the first 49 years of your physiological reality. So each orbit of your planet each year as you call it will engage like a year another chakra for a new cycle. So this can be utilized generally and sometimes specifically to understand exactly where you are in your life with regard to what kind of energy you are exploring, what kind of energy level you are at, what issues you are dealing with. And you can see what is coming up and perhaps can prepare yourself to understand how to integrate these ideas better by using this as a chart or a map to understand exactly when you will be receiving the next level of energy, what it will entail and how perhaps you can best integrate it by finding your position on this chart to give yourself a little bit better understanding of how you can more smoothly incorporate holistically all the energy that you may face now that you may not understand where they are coming from why this issue now why it is timing now overlaying this kind of a chart on your life can at least give you a general understanding of the course that you are charting and help you perhaps illuminate a little bit more clearly the agendas and the agreements you made as a spiritual being when you chose to become a physiological consciousness. So use that tool and allow yourself in that sense to play within your imagination to expand upon it to add more detail to it and overlay it like a template in a general sense to act as a guide and an assisted tool to you however you wish.

### **The Geometric Tool: Fibonacci, Cones, and Ancient Symbols**

The second diagram which you would recognize as the drawing of several apparent squares and angular lines is representative of a very powerful tool that we will share with you now. It is a tool that has existed on our planet many times. But in many ways your civilization has forgotten exactly what this is all about and what it means. But we will remind you now that it is time for you to be able in whatever way, shape or form you feel is important or applicable or appropriate. It is time now for you to reintroduce this idea in your society and give over to your imagination whatever idea of using this tool your imagination fields is necessary for your growth and spiritual evolution and exploration of different levels of energy and dimensionality.

Many of you are familiar with the idea that there is always a mathematical relationship within any structure in nature in the universe physically. Some time ago in law terms of counting, mathematicians discovered certain ratios and principles that in a sense reflect or represent these energy levels, these frequency relationships as they exist or can be expressed mathematically in your world in your reality. One such important one was what was labeled the Fibonacci series which represents the ratio that occurs in all natural growth in your physical reality. This ratio being approximately 1 to 1.618. Every natural thing exhibits this ratio in all of its components relative in relation what you call the finger of your hand. Your first joint, if you consider this to be a unit of measurement one, the next joint will be precisely 1.618 times bigger. If you consider this joint to be a measure of one, the next joint will be precisely 1.618 times bigger and so on and so on and so on and so on throughout the universe. You see this in all plants, all animals, all living things, in DNA, in everything that moves and grows in that sense. And even in some ideas of crystalline structure, you will find this mathematical relationship and ratio. So this represents the underlying template, if you will, upon which physical reality grows in a certain way. It is the blueprint so to speak to let you know how physical reality has the ability to expand.

This diagram represents a tool that takes advantage of these mathematical and energy vibrational relationships in a very powerful way. It is like in a sense an antenna if you will look at the diagonal lines as if they were a cone. Now what is the first thing that this might represent to many of you? If you will observe the idea of this particular shape, you will see that it is constructed by the utilization or the creation of forms that represent the first seven levels of the Fibonacci sequence that go from 1 to 13. The sequence being constructed by simply adding the previous two numbers to get the next one. So you see that when you have the three, you add it to the two to get the five. You add the five to the three to get the eight. and so on until you arrive at 13 for the first seven levels. So that corresponds the idea of the seven chakra systems in physiological reality from the spirit to the physical. In this way, this cone structured with these proportions by creating a baseline which would be 13 units wide below the eight and drawing the diagonal from the end points of that line that is 13 units wide up until they just touch the corner points of the unit that is one unit wide and thus allow them to continue to form a point. This is how this is constructed. When you do this, you get a conical form. You will see this in what you call three dimensions. A conical form that is specifically specifically designed to do a particular thing and that is to act as an antenna to translate etheric non-physical electromagnetic energetic reality or spirit into physical manifestation. That's what this form is for. to bring in a sense euphoristically symbolically heaven down to earth.

You will recognize that this is the precise ratio and proportion of what you have now relegated in your memory to the idea of the wizard's hat, the witch's hat, the sorcerer's hat. That conical hat is a remnant memory of this idea of this device. For it was then thought that by wearing it on the head, you would draw like an antenna the etheric energy and bring into magical transformational transmutational manifestation through the body and out in magical way. The idea to also understand is that there are references that still exist in your reality that are remant memories of this particular form. If you will build, actually physically construct this form in a variety of ways, a variety of sizes, a variety of materials, and place it in a variety of locations on your planet, you will find that it will actually create many different kinds of effects. Experiment with this. It is time for this tool to exist in your reality again and be understood for what it is.

There are, aside from the idea of the sorcerer's peak, two other strong references in your ancient literature that remind you of this particular shape. If you look at the internal structure, not that which you might recognize as cylinders within the cone or what might look like simply squares on your drawing, but look at them as cylinders stacked upon one another in that ratio. This is the exact proportion of the construction of what your ancient literature calls the tower of battle. This is what it looked like. And the idea was the same. It was constructed in these proportions to act as a wave guide to amplify refined etheric energy and bring it step it down into physical materiality for the purpose of converting that energy into a variety of forms that can be utilized in the physical world both for inspiration and actual physical effect.

Also the conical form and the step form are what you have relegated to the symbolism again your ancient literature of what is referred to as Jacob's ladder. This is Jacob's ladder that which went from earth to heaven from heaven to earth and allow the energies of the idea of you what you call heaven to be manifested down the ladder onto physical planetary earth. You have recognized this symbol over and over again in many ways, but it has in a sense become lost in your literature in terms of its original true meaning. This we now share with you again to remind you of the powerful tool that this can be. So if you will play with this and experiment with this, you will find it is capable of doing many different kinds of things and confirm the foundational element of new technology on your planet for tapping directly into the electromagnetic field and drawing from that field to manifest different forms of power that are in your terms longlasting nonpolluting. Experiment with this in a variety of material sizes and locations on your planet and see what you get. Play with it. Use your imagination. That's what this is for.

So we share these ideas now with you at this time that we deem it is timing for you to put these back into your society and we thank you for the opportunity to do so. At this timing, we will thus then once again thank you for the co-creation of this event. And in return for the great gift that you are giving our civilization in being allowed to communicate through this window in this way at this time, I ask in return now in what way may I and my civilization be of service to you. Good day.

### **Conversation 1: Acceleration, Thresholds, and Fear**

**Questioner:** I was wondering it seems to be this last month there has been things have been like sort of like a sudden acceleration. Yes. Yes. And I wonder is this going to continue?

**Entity:** Yes. Is it going to be another thing? There is going to be many way many many more accelerations in many areas of the plan as you approach the idea of the time of the ending of the old cycle of the new which is going on has been going on for a little while but which in a sense starts to culminate in around the first couple of decades of your upcoming new millennium. Thus, you are now arriving at that so-called threshold similar to the concept of in your technology crossing the sound barrier or approaching the idea of the speed of light. You're arriving at that threshold and you're about to cross it. Everything must accelerate to bring all your energy to bear as a society so that you can bring all that energy, your momentum up to speed, match that frequency of your ultimate self and begin to cross that threshold to create the new society that you are laying the foundations for. Now, by seeing what is going on on your planet and all the acceleration of new information and also even what you may things that seem to be accelerating on your planet, you're getting everything up out of your system and out onto the table to examine every portion of your creation, every portion of your culture and society to examine what it is you want to keep and what it is you want to change. to bring all that energy and consciousness and intention to bear so as to step across the threshold into the new reality. You are all together co-creating. Yes. So there'll be much much more acceleration. You haven't, as you say in your language, seen anything yet. Get ready for the roller coaster ride of your life.

**Questioner:** I was wondering as you said this is like some acceleration sound very sound. What if any um approxim will there be noticeable physical effects because they're not all right?

**Entity:** Do you not see around your planet many different changes in the weather, many different geological changes? Now, all of the ones that have been predicted don't have to come to pass. You have already transformed many of them into other forms of energy expression such as sociological change or political change or financial change. They do not have to be experienced in any particular way. There will still be some acceleration in what you may call some of the geological or weather pattern or electromagnetic field changes. But again the basic as you say bottom line really is what is your energy all about. It is your frequency that will determine where you are when you are there and how you will experience the transformation. For life attracts light and the energy of fear will only attract an individual into the centers that experience the transformation in a cataclysmic way. Whereas the energy of joy and unconditional love of self will attract the individual to experience the transformation. Even if they are standing in the middle all around them of a cataclysm, they will never experience it in anything but a smooth and creative manner. You follow that's the key. So do not so much be concerned about exactly what's going to happen. Be focused on the idea of what you decide you are all about because only your wavelength will determine what you are attracted in the transition to experience. What portion or what methodology or what style of the transition you are capable of experiencing because it can be experienced in many different ways because it's holographic. There are any number of ways to experience it that coexist simultaneously. And what frequency you are on, like your television sets, what channel you are on determines the program you get. Even though all the other programs might be there in the airwaves, you only see the one your television set is tuned to. Does that make sense to you?

**Questioner:** Yes. This is physics. This is how it works. Okay. All right. How far? All right. Okay. Just do do you have any idea when this so immense steps this move will happen that are happening all the time.

**Entity:** There are many small transitions within larger transitions. The idea of some of the larger regular transition points are such things as what you would call your eyes of March date. Sometimes again depending upon the culture what you call your Halloween and New Year's dates things like that. But also in a sense in between there are many step ups for a variety of reasons depending upon whether or not you have reached certain kinds of critical mass within certain groupings of consciousness that determine that they can in that sense kick themselves up to the next level. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Entity:** So it is a fluctuating kind of thing. Some of the bigger ones will be in general coming up as your yearly understandings of your 1997 and 98. There may be many many many many abrupt transitions especially in the end of 97 and '98 with regard to certain political situations on your planet especially in what you call your Middle East and again in the idea of your years of 2005 are great possible transitions coming up and I say possible because we are only sensing the energy that exists at the time that we are now talking to you about it there's no such thing as a prediction of the future only a sensing of the energy that exists at the time the sensing is made that could change But if there's a radial momentum behind the energy as it exists, it may be unlikely that it will go another course. And then by saying this is the energy as it exists and if it doesn't change then you say the prediction has come to pass. But when you hear a prediction even though it may never come to pass, it doesn't mean it wasn't true at the time it was made. It simply means the energy may have changed. And sometimes hearing about the prediction in of itself may change the energy because now you're consciously aware of where the energy is going and you can say I don't prefer that. Let's change it. And you make the prediction obsolete just by your very awareness of it.

**Questioner:** Thank you very much.

**Entity:** Good day.

**Questioner:** Thank you for that. Reason I say is because the question I asked and I answer it myself. Thank you. Uh this also represents the ancient Egypt.

**Entity:** No, this is not the same mathematics. They have their own vibrational relationships and ratios that do similar things on different wavelengths and create different kinds of results. This cortical form in of itself has its own unique signature vibration and its own unique kinds of manifestational energies.

**Questioner:** Okay. I was serious. All right. I guess for a few days afterwards you kicked the channel around. All right. Did you get it? Uh all right. Yes. And what did you find in the market with it? All right. And it's a full time.

**Entity:** Yes. Not here. Well, again, as we have originally described it, it is not so much something that is out there as it is perhaps a side effect manifested in the electromagnetic field of physical reality that is representative of exactly what we talked about a moment ago. The leading edge of the collective consciousness of your people, creating a threshold that is about to cross. You're crossing yourselves. That's what the photon belt is. Is the collection of energy forming what appears to be a barrier that you know you need to break through. But it has an electromagnetic side effect, so to speak. Because anything you think of, especially with the concentration of your entire culture, will create some idea in physical reality to manifest, but it isn't something just out there that you're going to pass through that has nothing to do with the fact that you created it, which you all did. Okay, does that make sense to you?

**Questioner:** is to a possibility. I understand what you just want just want to experience.

**Entity:** Yes. or some areas of your planet may experience this either momentarily or they may experience it for longer durations but not everywhere and the individuals in certain locations because of their vibration may not experience this at all themselves many times exactly so it is a wave of energy that can be in a sense or resisted thus depending on whether you ride the wave or resist it determines whether or not you go forward quickly and smoothly or whether you allow yourself to be in a sense smacked down by it.

**Questioner:** Okay. I understand but I need more perspective anyway for clarification sake. Thank you. going back to last week. I thought you said no discuss it. Okay, fine. But I understand all of us.

**Entity:** Yes. And fear is the key that determines the whole issue. That's the part that I don't understand. I feel aware of things in most the structure of human being. The idea however is that you cannot get to the next step as long as you fear what is here. That's the paradox. And you have to learn to use the power in the paradox by acceptance of what is here. Not that you necessarily prefer the way is manifesting, but nevertheless by unconditionally lovingly accepting the way it is. That is what gives you the power to allow it to change. So you cannot have the next step. If you do not acknowledge the step you are on because you do not acknowledge the step you are on, there is no way to push off from it to take the next step because you have made it insubstantial in that sense Not accepting it as real.

**Questioner:** Thank you.

### **Conversation 2: Contact with Deceased Sister**

**Questioner:** Hello. Um, over the past about 5 months or so, I've been getting a sense of my late sister's uh contacting me.

**Entity:** All right. Okay. Well, she is actually right on time. Yeah, she is late.

**Questioner:** I found out a few months ago that my other sister who's also she's physically she's been having what she interprets as being communications sister also and so my sense of it is that it was just simply like a chicken and because that's what I asked for right after she died that checking for you.

**Entity:** Yes. For your other sister, it was a little bit more than that because your other sister needs a little bit more confirmation than you do. So, there was a little bit more help, a little bit more energy, a little bit more guidance given even though it may have been immediately realized in the transmission. For you, there was some of that mostly in the form simply of love, saying hi, as you say in your language, checking in. Yes, because you asked for it, but a little bit different for you than your other sister.

**Questioner:** Okay. So, I was asking the confirmation interpretation of the visit, right? So, that's pretty much how I felt about it. Yes. After I spoke with my sister, I began to thought that perhaps the declaring sister was asking for help in some way in a sense, but perhaps not the way that I interpreted this idea.

**Entity:** The help that is being asked for is that you learn with all of you to be more of yourselves so that collectively together you can add your overall energy to the physical and the spiritual realm to help things accelerate more smoothly. something for her. Not so much more though. She understands that by you doing that and being more unconditionally loving in all things, it will help her as well because she will be allowed to do her job as a guide, by you working in you the ability to love yourselves more unconditionally.

**Questioner:** Can you tell her specifically to what degree she is going to say? To what degree?

**Entity:** One woman with you maybe about 15 about 37%.

**Questioner:** Okay. My other sister just gets totally scared. Yes. All this stuff. Thus she needs as we said more guidance. Thus she gets it which scares her more. But this is all about a certain kind of lesson and it is about learning how to transform fear into love into joy.

**Entity:** we have of recently in talking about this idea of being afraid and transforming fear into joy taking advantage of a wonderful synchronicity structure that exists in your particular culture's language which you call English is learning how to turn scared into sacred by shuffling the letters around the idea is that when you confront the fear by accepting it as information that you rather than denying and suppressing that portion of yourself, but allowing it in, allowing it to be real, accepting it as your reaction to something you believe to be true. You will be able to use the idea, and I'm just speaking in general terms, not necessarily specifically about you. You will use the idea of fear constructively, beneficially, positively, because fear is only your own energy out of tune with your natural core true self. You only have one energy that is you. You experience that energy either as fear or love in general. There may be a range of emotionality in between. But nonetheless, it is all generally the product of the idea of that energy expressed either in certain colors of love or certain colors of fear. The idea thus is to again as an analogy think of the device on your planet called the piano. When you play the harmonious song on the keys and all of a sudden strike what you call a silent note, you'll go screaming away in panic from the piano. You say, "This key needs to be tuned." That's what fear is. Is your energy out of tune with your natural self because it is being filtered through definitions you have been taught to believe in that are out of alignment with who you are. When you find out why you would be afraid in any given situation because of the definitions you have about that situation, you can invent new definitions that are more in keeping, more in alignment with your self, with who you would prefer to be. And then by filtering your energy through those newly created definitions, you have transformed your energy from the vibration of fear to the vibration of love. That's how it works. Make sense?

**Questioner:** So she is being pushed given more opportunity to understand that she needs to use the fear. So the more she resists the idea of accepting the fear as a powerful positive tool, the more she will give you the opportunity to be afraid until she gets the cuz what she did was she went and asked her priest about it. And he said, "Well, she's probably your sister is probably asking for you to help." And she says, "Yes." But the interpretation was more of my previous one. Hey, you do something or see because I need your help from that realm.

**Entity:** Specifically on the idea is that your other sister is being shall we say lured into the idea of helping her sister. But that is in a sense a clever disguise for helping herself because it will force her to stretch in the direction she needs to go by thinking she needs to go and help her sister. You understand? Do you want it clever? In other words, if I come to you and say, I need your help. I need you to help me do a certain thing. And I know that by doing it, you will stretch that I'm actually helping you as you help me. Okay? You understand? So, your spiritual sister is giving your physical sister an indication that your spiritual sister needs help in a certain way because she knows that will evoke the love vibration from your physical sister enough so that she will get out of her own way. Stop focusing on the idea of the fear energy. Stretch out the hell and in so doing all of a sudden be surprised that the help that was needed was really to her.

**Questioner:** It's just that at this point I perceive that it's still not helping yet. The end product is definitely not here yet.

**Entity:** It isn't necessary that an end product per se be created. Only that the individual, your sister, understand that there are more constructive ways to utilize anything that happens in her life and thus become more of who she is, which is the only purpose any of you have in life. Okay. Does that help? Anything else?

**Questioner:** Why? Thank you for helping us.

**Entity:** You're welcome.

### **Conversation 3: The Lost Ring**

**Questioner:** One other thing. I think this will be quick if you're willing to do it. I lost a room in my house. It was my finger. Maybe it was taken. I don't know. Um, do you have a heater?

**Entity:** A heater? Yes, a heater.

**Questioner:** Yes, I have a heater. Well, got a couple kinds. Big one heats the entire house. It's a central heater.

**Entity:** Does this have any shape or form the idea of what you would call grill work that is exposed in the wall or the floor area?

**Questioner:** Yes, there are the holes that the air gets pushed out of are grills, vertical grills. And then there's one that's horizontal, I think.

**Entity:** Are they anywhere near the floor?

**Questioner:** There's one that's near the floor, right?

**Entity:** Check around there and see what you find. I find Check around there and see what you find. recently and then recently and then see without expectation. Oh, that's a tough one. How did it get to be so tough?

**Questioner:** one. How did it get to be so tough? Well, because it look why I like it. So, so look at it. I start look like you are. Mhm. I see. I think you I know. If you are forgetting what it looks like, how do you even know it exists?

**Entity:** The challenge is not a question. Yes. The challenge for you here is that the ring is being used by you to sharpen your ability to manifest. Okay? Because you are in a sense holding on to the physiological object as if it is real when it is the idea that is real. Okay? And when you sharpen the idea, manifestation in physical reality will be easier to be reflected. Okay? Great. But look in the area without expectation. Okay. I'll give you this hint to help you along. If you look without expectation, you might find something even more enjoyable than the ring. Now, are you peaked?

**Questioner:** Hello.

### **Conversation 4: The Ill Cat and Self-Love**

**Questioner:** Hello. Um, I have a question that's regarding animals.

**Entity:** Animals?

**Questioner:** Yes. Um I have a very very old cat and she's quite ill old and um I have a problem with um uh eugenization. You're putting so many animals to sleep and I just cannot. She's suffering I think at times and um I I think maybe I should put her to sleep and then I just can't do it.

**Entity:** And the decision of course in a sense is yours but it is also in a sense the animals. However, I will tell you this. If you do that out of love then nothing negative about it whatsoever. Do you understand?

**Questioner:** Yeah.

**Entity:** The animal understands and the animal knows its consciousness continues. So have a dialogue either physiologically or in what you call your dreams with the animal. It doesn't have to be rush. You can even ask the animal in that sense if the animal would like to simply leave or repair before you in that sense make the other kind of a decision. Allow the animal to show you what the time is all about. But at the same time allow yourself to understand there is no right and wrong in this and there is no harm in this no matter what you decide to do per se. However, if you recognize that the suffering in that sense does not necessarily have to continue, then the idea of allowing the animal to transition can be a loving act and the animal will love you no less for that choice. As long as you are clear that you have made your peace and made your connection and know that the relationship will always be there even though it may take another form. The animal knows this. Learn to know what the animal knows and the answer will come to you and you will know the correct thing to do. Uh-huh. You follow?

**Questioner:** Yeah. Um I I've done that to a to a degree. Well, obviously not to enough of a degree for you to be comfortable.

**Entity:** No, I'm not comfortable with it because do it to a greater degree. Uh-huh. You understand how to do that?

**Questioner:** I understand. She really does not want to go there. That's what I'm feeling.

**Entity:** All right. You know, and what can you learn from this?

**Questioner:** I don't know. It's it's come with your imagination. Love is this animal.

**Entity:** Yes.

**Questioner:** Are you sure? Well, at times I don't because she gets very obnoxious.

**Entity:** Why is being obnoxious lessen your love of the animal?

**Questioner:** I just get irritated.

**Entity:** So, do you love the animal?

**Questioner:** All right. Yes.

**Entity:** Second question. Do you love yourself?

**Questioner:** Not always. No.

**Entity:** All right. Are you obnoxious sometimes?

**Questioner:** The animal to some degree right now for you is reflecting to you some of the idea the processes going on in your own consciousness relating to your degree of willingness to put up with the idea of suffering in your own life. The animals give you an opportunity to examine how much time you will allow to continue before you give yourself permission to understand that even though you will always have challenge, you do not have to have suffering. And the way to transform the suffering is to learn to love yourself unconditionally in the same measure that the animal loves you unconditionally. No matter how obnoxious you may get. Because the animal understands that what you term obnoxious may simply be momentary confusion or momentary forgetfulness of who you actually know yourself to be. Do you understand? And thus the animal's obnoxious behavior from time to time is a reflection of your own forgetfulness of yourself.

**Questioner:** I see.

**Entity:** So then learn this lesson of love and create cocreate continue to cocreate the relationship for what it is. Because all relationships that exist, no matter with whom they are, any being, any relationship of any kind, is for one purpose and one purpose only. That you in a relationship use the relationship to learn to become more of who you know you are and to allow all other beings in that relationship to do the same for themselves. That's the purpose of relationship. So go forth with this understanding. So go forth with this understanding. Play with it with this knowledge. Now see what you get that might be different than what you have gotten before. You will get clarity if you stay within the energy you are in right now. Do you understand?

**Questioner:** Mhm. Yes. So it does not harm an animal when uh we reutize them. Does it harm you to physically die?

**Entity:** Um I hope not. You know it doesn't. You know it does not. All things change. Change is the only constant. This is the fourth law of creation. But the first law of creation is that you exist. You can't alter that. So while you may exist in many different forms, while you will transform from physical to non-physical, non-physical to physical, parallel dimensions, alternate realities, while you will experience your consciousness on many different levels, as many different things or forms of expression, you will always exist, but you will always change. There is no harm in change in that sense. Do you understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. But um well there is such a thing as uh naturally dying and taking the life of...

**Entity:** I understand but again remember that there are always reasons for the choice of how that happens and sometimes the idea of the choice of the way to transition in of itself serves a purpose to put other individuals who are connected to that transition in touch with things they need to be put in touch with. Therefore, certain beings, especially animals, will choose to transition in certain ways that will evoke the need for you to explore certain issues rather than just simply letting you take the easy way out. Do you understand?

**Questioner:** Well, the easy way would be just to wait until she dies naturally.

**Entity:** In a sense, although it won't necessarily be the easiest way if you do not feel good about watching the animal suffer.

**Questioner:** Well, it it's it's sort of, you know, either here nor there. I feel uncomfortable watching her suffer and I feel uncomfortable making the decision to uh neutralize her.

**Entity:** I understand what I like is that you are suffering in your decision and you don't have to. If you will understand what we said to you about having a clear communication about the reason for why you are going through this and that will be to examine what issues come up within you about the things that are not who you know yourself to be. And then you will have clearer insight about what you need to do because you will have used the circumstance for the purpose it was intended and that is to help you understand more of who you are.

**Questioner:** Well, I think about that.

**Entity:** Well, all right. But I would suggest you do more than think about it. I would suggest that you feel it fully and I would suggest that you allow yourself to know that you will take some action in some direction that will be appropriate. And if you allow yourself to know that this will happen, then the situation can be utilized to its fullest purpose.

**Questioner:** All right. Yeah.

**Entity:** Okay. Sweet dreams to you.

**Questioner:** Uh-huh. Can I ask another question?

**Entity:** No.

**Questioner:** Oh, thank you. Another time.

**Entity:** Another time.

### **Conversation 5: Group Meetings and ET Contact**

**Questioner:** Okay. Um, last year here a question that a group of people have the um area. um area. I want I want you to to listen to it and it's it's changing this certain this certain um do choose to do ourselves feel [Music] this also the same way that they have permissions, they have modifications that they want to express to express, right? And so the group is growing in that respect to do that. And we thank you for your willingness to choose to be more of yourselves. That will make all the difference in your world and in others. Some people are just they're just tossed in and they don't know how to go about it.

**Entity:** They will always eventually receive the guidance and the information they need. Always eventually. If they are willing to move with that intention, you will always eventually know what to do.

**Questioner:** Okay. Um so there is no information that a group of people who are supposed to be a party and this is supposed to happen before April. This has been the new American of the being sensed is the opportunity for such things to accelerate.

**Entity:** Not necessarily that it has to manifest exactly physically at that time. But a great many doorways exactly at that time will open for the acceleration of such opportunities. In certain levels such meetings will at that time take place. Not necessarily will they manifest physiologically, but look to it as a time for all of you to focus on the idea of becoming more of yourselves so that you will be the selves you need to be in order to meet others who are in of themselves holistic. You understand it?

**Questioner:** Okay.

**Entity:** Things are accelerating towards such events. Yes. Do not necessarily confine it to the idea of a specific time and place yet because there is much integration that your people need to do before you are ready to in a sense withstand the energy vibration of such a meeting because it is literally the overlapping of different dimensions of reality. And many of you unless you are really ready for that will run screaming such an event no matter how benign the others may be. You understand? So utilize it as an opportunity to accelerate that potential. But understand that as you do so, you're accelerating the potential of learning to really meet your own selves first because you haven't done that yet.

**Questioner:** Yes. Does that make sense to you?

**Entity:** Yes, it does.

**Questioner:** One more question. That was a question. This is versus the uh for contact with ETS with the claim itself better.

**Entity:** It is up to each individual in terms of what they resonate to their own imaginations, their own creativity, their own inspiration will be their best guide. There is no best way. All of these things can be utilized. But remember, they are all only reflections of your own consciousness. Your consciousness is what is doing the contacting. These things simply act as reflections of what vibration you deem is most appropriate for you and thus you attract to yourself by making it attractive to you the things that best physically reflect the energy you are already best capable of using for those purposes. Do you understand this?

**Questioner:** Yes, I do. Does that help you then?

**Entity:** Yes, it does. Thank you.

**Questioner:** Thank you. Perfect. Thank you. Perfect. Thank you. Thank you.

### **Conversation 6: Relationships and Self-Worth**

**Questioner:** Past, present, or future. Please scan that.

**Entity:** You do have some chemical imbalance but the chemical imbalance comes from the tension which of course then by being produced in the body reinforces the tension that is there. But first there is the tension to begin with. There is the emotional tension first before there is any physiological ramification. So what are you emotionally tense about?

**Questioner:** relationships? I see. And so it seems like I had a nice time having healthy healthy relationships.

**Entity:** Yes. Yes. Yes. But the idea to understand in the simplest level of reflection is that means you're having difficulty having a healthy happy relationship with yourself. I know you because you're all psychic. You're all intuitive and you all really know who you are and I don't really have to tell you. All you have to do is be honest and admit it to yourselves and then you will know what to do. But I am willing to help reflect these things to you when you choose to pretend you don't know who you are.

**Questioner:** Thank you. We appreciate all of you as well.

**Entity:** However, the idea again of course as you already know is that you are still going through the idea of discovering what it is all about to have a healthy happy relationship with yourself. Mhm. Therefore, what is it you can do to accelerate that idea before you focus on the idea of attracting or manifesting a reflection of a relationship in the outer world? Because remember the idea of relationships is not for the purpose of being complete. The idea is to have a reflection to share what you actually understand to be your completeness. And that doesn't mean you have to have an end all be all perfection within you. It simply means that you have to behave as if you know you have everything you need because you were created to be complete even though you will go through many changes of spiritual growth. You are still complete at any given moment as to wherever you define yourself to be at that moment. So you have to come to terms with finding out what it is you need to do to have a healthy happy relationship as yourself before anything can reflect itself in your outer reality as such a relationship. Okay. So what would you like to do?

**Questioner:** Are you sure?

**Entity:** Yes. Well, all I If you were, he said, nudging her along to imagine that you had what you deem to be or maybe a totally perfectly healthy, happy relationship with yourself. What would be different about you than what's going on now? How would you be different? Would your behavior be different? Would your attitude toward yourself on certain issues be different? Would you be well what the difference will be.

**Questioner:** I see.

**Entity:** Why are you so hard on yourself? Why? Why? Why do you choose to be so hard on yourself?

**Questioner:** Yes, you do. Yes, you do. What do you get out of it? Stress. That's what I get out of it.

**Entity:** But what do you get out of it in the quote unquote positive sense? Because you never do anything out of you. You never do anything unless you think you're getting something out of it. So what do you get out of being hard on yourself? What does it shall we say put you in a position of not having to do? What are you afraid you will have to do if you're no longer hard on yourself? That's another way to ask the question.

**Questioner:** That's a good question. Thank you. Do you have a good answer?

**Entity:** Yes, you do. What are you afraid you will have to be like if you are no longer hard on yourself?

**Questioner:** Too sensitive.

**Entity:** Too sensitive. You are afraid that you will become too sensitive. Yeah. Define too sensitive. Meaning in what way? How do you mean that? In what situations would you describe yourself as being too sensitive?

**Questioner:** Vulnerable.

**Entity:** So you are defining vulnerability as weakness instead of strength. All right. Well, there you see you're getting to the core issues. Your definitions are not serving you. Start defining the idea of vulnerability as strength. Do you know how to do that?

**Questioner:** No.

**Entity:** Vulnerability is the idea of being open. Being totally open means you are connected to all that is. Being connected to all that is means you are supported by all that is. Being supported by all that is means you are infinitely powerful. That's vulnerability. The willingness to be who you are. knowing that who you are is completely supported by all that is otherwise you wouldn't even exist. So that's a beginning for your own being. And then when you begin to know that make it your own, you will not be so hard on yourself because you will no longer deny that you are the reflection of the infinite you were created to be. Because that's what being hard on yourselves is all about. I'm not worthy. I'm not worthy. I'm not worthy. A side note, and this is not a chastisement nor a judgment. Understand that we are simply giving you a little bit of guidance here from unconditional love. All right. All right. To say I am not worthy of that which I have been created to be. Even though it may seem as if you are attempting to humble yourself is actually one of the greatest acts of arrogance there is because you are saying that out of all the universe that works flawlessly I alone am not worthy. Thus I stand out and am special. Everything else works fine but not me. creation that made me the one being that in all of creation that works flawlessly that does not work flawlessly. Thus, I can point at myself and say, "See, I have a reason for not being the perfect creator I know I am because I alone am the special flawed creation within the infinite." So, it's a statement of arrogance. So the truly humble knows that you infinitely deserve to know you are great and simply exemplify that in your behavior. Not in the idea of your negative ego but in your actions of being willing to show the infinite that you are willing to accept what the infinite created you to be. And then you will no longer be hard on yourself because you will value and honor what the infinite honors and values in having created you. In a sense to be hard on yourself is to deny the idea that in a sense creation knew what it was doing when it created you. You are saying you're wrong in creating me. You didn't know what you are doing when you created me. I am a mistake in the overall creation. Thus you are in that sense devaluing all of creation. So how will creation support you in knowing that you are strong until you yourself know that you wouldn't be if you didn't belong. So if you allow yourself to know you belong in all the ways that you can express that then you are valuing not only yourself but creation simultaneously and then creation can support you in the valuation of yourself.

**Questioner:** Yes. Well said. something that even a child knows but an adult on your planet many times forgets. Do you understand?

**Entity:** Thanks.

### **Conversation 7: The Comet and Consciousness Mirror**

**Questioner:** Good day. I apologize for arriving here late.

**Entity:** So why do you need to apologize?

**Questioner:** Well, it might be inconvenient to others.

**Entity:** It was to me too.

**Questioner:** Oh, if you say so. Uh do you do not need to apologize too well?

**Entity:** Very well. Um, if you know what I'm talking about as it ask about in terms of the information seems to be developing over the past well since you were here last ask. Do you have anything to say about it?

**Entity:** Yes. Plain and simple straightforward. There is no object out there connected to the comet or in association with it. What individuals on your planet are perceiving and experiencing, even if physiologically, is a reflection through a window to other dimensions of the probable futures that represent the vibrational level of the consciousness doing the perceiving. Are you following that? All right. Think of this in a sense as a consciousness mirror. That the comet is a significator of timing. As many of you understand symbolically, it represents a timing when you're opening up your understanding of all the probable ways your future can go, of all the probable things that your future can contain. Thus, it is acting reflecting back to you like a mirror, an amalgamation of the collective consciousness of your planet, which of course is much in a sense bigger than your physical world. And so many individuals have perceived the idea of an object out there many times the size of your planet. In a sense, that is true, but it is not physically there. In the same way that your reflection in a mirror is not actually in the mirror because the only reason you can see it is because the light is coming back to you and it is here and it is coming from you to the mirror back to you so that you can perceive it. So in this sense, the comet is associated with energies that are capable of reflecting to your world the true scale, scope and magnitude of the collective consciousness of your planet and an opportunity to view in this mirror. All will have the ability to determine what vibrational frequency, what probable reality you desire and to work together telepathically to concretize or crystallize that probable future reality idea into what you prefer your planet to be. Does that make some sense to you?

**Questioner:** Thank you. Thank you.

### **Conversation 8: The Transmission Mechanism Dream**

**Questioner:** I suspect there may be some synchronicity in this, but as I said, I wanted to ask you a dream I had years ago.

**Entity:** Yes.

**Questioner:** About what I call a transmission mechanism that was con And clear impression that it was a machine of some kind. But that's I will ask you a question.

**Entity:** Yes. Were the cones inverted to each other?

**Questioner:** No.

**Entity:** Were they facing the same way?

**Questioner:** Yes. All right. Go ahead.

**Entity:** Yes. The same way. Yes. Oh, there was a shaft coming out the cone at the top of the closed one.

**Questioner:** Yes. Trans. Yes. because from each other connected by a system of flats.

**Entity:** Yes, this is in a sense a type of valve situation. In a sense, you are correct. Is a type of transmission situation like a neuron to some degree for a rough analogy in the sense that there's a gap between them that allows a certain kind of energy to be transmitted and transformed into other kinds of energy. is a type of regulation that is based on the ratios that we describe in the code this day. Yes. Manipulate the energy is allow energy to flow in lesser or greater quantities in that sense as a regular as a transmission of that energy. Yes. It is a circuit in that sense.

**Questioner:** Yes. Okay.

**Entity:** Now that is really up to you to decide. However, symbol it showed you you at a point that you know you are now capable of translating more energy, stepping it up, regulating it as you wish. In other words, that you are in total capability of being in control of how you flow energy in your life to wherever you intend it to go into. So symbolically, it can simply work for you that way. On the other hand, depending on whether or not it actually excites you, you could also physically build this thing and be part and puzzle of bringing a new technology or again an old technology remembered to your planet if you wish. But that's up to you. And anything in between that your imagination decides is reflective of your highest joy with regard to the symbol that you have given yourself or attracted to yourself in this way. Does that help? Then again, exciting dreams to you.

### **Conversation 9: Spain Sightings and Switzerland Interactions**

**Questioner:** Um, I have a few more questions over the two experiences or that I had back in the early60s in Spain. What the significance was not at this time except for the fact that to some degree they were involved in the reception of the device you've already described.

**Entity:** Well, make the connection now because obviously that's what the device represents making a connection. Okay, you are connected to those beings. They are connected to you and they assisted in your ability to remember how to attract and bring through to your physical reality those types of energies once again. And it was symbolized by that device which can be quite literally constructed but nevertheless is also as we said symbolic of the ability to do that make connections amplify energies step them up step them down and to increase and accelerate the concept of manifestation and the refinement of the focus of the manifestation in that sense. So that is what we will share with you with regard to the sightings and that is all we are allowed to share at this time regarding that subject.

**Questioner:** Okay again be okay in Switzerland. What is your view of that?

**Entity:** Some of the interactions actually did occur. There have been since that timing many manipulations of the information. Many misunderstandings of the events, many deliberate misdirection of information in that sense on the part of certain individuals both for the idea of manipulation and for the idea of fear and for the idea of not wanting to be bothered anymore. There was some concrete reality involved, not necessarily as much as has been said, but the initial interactions are real in their own right. Although again as we have said obviously much shall we say static has been built up around it for a variety of special interest reasons and that is all we will say about that.

**Questioner:** Thank you for your sharing at this time.

**Entity:** Thank you. Good day.

### **Conversation 10: Post-Birth Weakness and Financial Fear**

**Questioner:** Good day. Um I have a question about my physical body and strength. Physical body and strength. Um, since my birthing of Everest, um, Everest. Everest. Yes. I just feel much. Yes. I'm much I feel much much weaker. Weaker.

**Entity:** All right. And um, how did you feel before the birthing?

**Questioner:** Um, I had a very good pregnancy. Yes, I wasn't sick at all. I felt strong.

**Entity:** But I'm not really talking about the idea of the physiological manifestations uh connected to the pregnancy. I'm asking about your emotional health prior to it. How did you feel about yourself and your life prior to the pregnancy?

**Questioner:** Um felt that things were going very well.

**Entity:** Um yes. In what context do you mean that?

**Questioner:** Um I loved my husband where we were living, where we located. Yes. Um the work that I was doing was satisfying. Yes. Financially things were very difficult.

**Entity:** All right. Financial energy is energy management. management. Continue. Now what does the idea of the pregnancy mean to you in and of itself? How do you feel about the idea of making an agreement and a connection to this being that you call your child? Um, and if I may, before you answer that question, ask you another. What determined your choice of the name Everest?

**Questioner:** Um, since obviously you feel like you are climbing a mountain right now. Well, actually, I I believe that though. Well, let me answer the second the first question first. Oh, why? Um, with I forgot what the first question were.

**Entity:** That's fine. I see. I see. All right. Erase all the questions you have been asked for now. I will ask you a fresh and new one. Yes. Are you ready?

**Questioner:** I'm ready.

**Entity:** All right. We'll keep this simple and I'll ask you one at a time so that you will not forget. What is your greatest sadness? What are you sad about? What would you like to release in terms of sadness in your life?

**Questioner:** Um, I hadn't thought about it before.

**Entity:** Think about it now.

**Questioner:** But what what came up is um prior to Everest being here. Yes. I thought I was in communication with the being for a couple of years who was not wanting to come through. Yes. And he is not that being. So, um, what makes you sad about this? I mean, he's more than I could even ever imagine. I I'm not sad that he's here, but I think I have some sadness that I wasn't aware of about the other beings.

**Entity:** And so, what does that sadness represent? In other words, what are your reasons for the sadness about the other being if that's what it is?

**Questioner:** Oh, okay. I got I'm on the bus now. Yes. Intuitive person and count a lot on my um I see on my intuition and my sense of knowing.

**Entity:** Are you saying that you let yourself down? Are you saying you let yourself down? Is that what you were saying? Are you saying you are disappointed you were not in your terms more accurate? Is that what you were saying? What are you saying here?

**Questioner:** I I think that might be part of it.

**Entity:** All right. What are the other parts as you call them? Why are you so sad? What is the great sadness? What is the great weight on you? [Music]

**Questioner:** Well, I'm not sure. I mean, my mind is blowing, but I feel like it's rationalization.

**Entity:** All right. Well, stop thinking and start feeling it. Feel the great sadness. When you feel the great sadness, remember you have to accept the emotion, not deny it. When you feel this great, this great sadness that you want to release, do you get images? Do you get other feelings? Do you get ideas and thoughts of connection to something? Does anything come up at all?

**Questioner:** Um, I feel like the heavy weight in the the heart center. Yes. And in the second chakra.

**Entity:** All right. Who are you crying for?

**Questioner:** I think my mother.

**Entity:** All right. Or perhaps yourself as well.

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Entity:** What about your mother? Why would you cry for your mother? What great sadness would you have about her? Can you be more specific? Feel it again. If you get lost, get back into the feeling. It will serve you. It will put you back on track. Or, as you say, back on the bus. So get back into the feeling. What's the great sadness you have about your mother? Or shall we say connected to your mother, about yourself? Was there something not there that you wanted to be there? Is it that kind of a thing?

**Questioner:** No, I think that's...

**Entity:** Then what is it? What's the great sadness? Why did you say my mother?

**Questioner:** I'm not sure if exactly how it's related. So maybe you can help me here.

**Entity:** All right, then let's go to you. Okay. What do you have as a great sadness about yourself? Are you not who you want to be?

**Questioner:** Um, I am at the moment a little bit more than I'd like to be.

**Entity:** I'll ask you another way. Here it comes. Are you ready?

**Questioner:** All right. Don't want to blow your circuits, as you say.

**Entity:** For how long have you not been who you want to be? Say whatever comes to mind. Don't analyze it. It doesn't necessarily have to be a technical question of time. For how long have you not been who you want to be?

**Questioner:** A long time.

**Entity:** Thank you. Would you even venture to say it feels like a long long time? Would you venture to say it feels like a long long long time or are too long's enough?

**Questioner:** I think too long enough.

**Entity:** So just a long long time you feel you have not been who you know you are.

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Entity:** Is there some particular expression in physical reality, behavior, creative act, some opportunity, some thing that you could be doing that would be more representative of your joy than what you're doing in your life? If you could know, if you could know that you could be anything or do anything, what would you choose?

**Questioner:** I think um just to be comfortable where I am. I don't think there's a thing that I Oh, I don't know. I care. I've gone to school.

**Entity:** That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. just to be comfortable with where you are. All right. Now, that doesn't necessarily translate as settling for less, does it?

**Questioner:** No.

**Entity:** All right. Truly to accept being comfortable where you are.

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Entity:** All right. Now, do you understand the principle again of the paradox that as soon as you accept totally accept being comfortable where you are, where you are changes? Do you understand that?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Entity:** Are you willing to accept that automatic and immediate change?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Entity:** All right. So, if you are willing to be comfortable and totally accept where you are at any given moment, no matter which where you are, it becomes. Is that what you're saying?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Entity:** No matter what happens. Is that what you're saying?

**Questioner:** No matter what happens. Is that what you're saying? Or are you not saying that? I'm saying I'd like to be there, but I don't think I'm there yet.

**Entity:** All right. Now, one moment. What scared you out of that spot? Because you were there and you ran from it when I said, "No matter what happens," and you went, "Oh, wait a minute. I don't think I'm there." You were there. You ran from it when I said that. What scared you about the phrase no matter what happens? Did your mind come up or your heart come up or your feeling come up with the idea of some imaginary worst case scenario that might happen that you will not be able to accept?

**Questioner:** Yes. And that was um just experiencing um lack more experiencing lack. lack lack lack lack lack lack all.

**Entity:** So in that sense you feel your life is on that level lackluster that you lack light you lack luster you lack brilliance you lack spark you lack life on that level you do not feel alive with regard to the idea of abundance and support um if feel if that's not exactly it then by all means be...

**Questioner:** Okay. Um that there are um moments where um yes it does feel light and joyous and wonderful and and why is that? Why does that happen?

**Entity:** Are you saying that in those moments you not feel the sadness and the way that you're feeling now?

**Questioner:** Right.

**Entity:** Why? Why are those moments different? What's different about them?

**Questioner:** I guess that I'm fully present in that moment and there's no fear in that moment.

**Entity:** All right. So, you accept completely yourself in that moment?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Entity:** Is that what you're saying?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Entity:** All right. Then what do you imagine would be unacceptable? Are you saying that what is unacceptable is not having money?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Entity:** Why? Why is that unacceptable?

**Questioner:** Um, it has been drumed into you.

**Entity:** No, it has been drummed into you that you need that in order to survive, has it not? Why would you panic about not having it? Because that's what you're experiencing. You know, you're experiencing a panic attack. Shortness of breath, weakness of strength. It's a panic attack. Why would you panic? Because money is not present in your life in the way you think it ought to be. What do you think will happen if you have no money? What is the worst fear you have about this? Give me a voice. What is the worst fear you have on this issue? What is the worst possible thing that could happen without any money or without the level of money you obviously believe is necessary in order for you to feel supported in the way that you want to feel that? What is the worst possible thing that could happen? You rise to your fear, acknowledge it, own it, give it a name.

**Questioner:** But we would have to ask our parents for money again.

**Entity:** My, how tragic. It's the end of the world. Not that you necessarily would have to, you know, but even if you did find yourself in that position, is that really really really so bad to you? And if so, why do you feel you are being a burden?

**Questioner:** Well, it feels like I'm not being who I really am. If I'm living in a life of lack, if I'm if I can't provide myself and my family with what I'm there's a part of me that knows.

**Entity:** You are very close to the secret here. You're very close. Keep going. You're very close to the secret.

**Questioner:** There's a part of me that knows that there is such tremendous abundance available to us that we already have and yet it seems like we keep getting stuck on the same in the same place.

**Entity:** Yes. And why would that be so? How can you get stuck in the same place? What can cause you to be stuck?

**Questioner:** Fear.

**Entity:** But where does the fear come from? What is the fear based on? Do you want a hint?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Entity:** Definitions that you believe to be true. I tell you this, you cannot have a feeling about anything unless you first have a definition of that thing. Do you understand this?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Entity:** You cannot experience an emotion about anything unless you first have a belief about that thing that you hold to be true. It's not possible. So if you have the feeling of fear about this issue, if you create the idea that you are stuck in this place, it's because your definitions motivate you to choose to act and choose to reinforce those beliefs that you have bought into about that idea. Okay. Being more powerful than any other idea you could choose to believe in. Is this making some sense to you?

**Questioner:** Yeah. So you're saying I'm coming for beliefs.

**Entity:** Yes. That's what the emotions are for. That's what the fear is for. This is what we said earlier in this conversation. Use the fear by saying if I am so afraid, what would I have to believe to be true in order to experience this degree of fear about the situation? What do I have to believe is true about not having money in order to be afraid that I don't have it? So, what do you believe is true about not having money that would make you choose to be afraid? Give me a definition. What do you believe is true about not having money?

**Questioner:** I am a burden. I am incapable of being a creator. I will allow my family to suffer. Am I heading in the right direction?

**Entity:** Maybe, but it's not. Anything else you want to add?

**Questioner:** There's something I know that and I I can I don't want to take up too much time, but I know that Oh, I see. You are willing to in that sense short change yourself. Is that what you're saying?

**Questioner:** Yeah.

**Entity:** What is the pattern? It's a choice, not a pattern. You know why? I'll tell you. Are you listening?

**Questioner:** I'm listening.

**Entity:** A pattern, a habit, is something you do that you don't know you're doing. When you know you're doing it, you don't have the habit anymore. If you keep doing it, it's a choice. And you keep choosing it. If you keep choosing it, because you're motivated to keep choosing it. And why are you motivated to keep choosing it? Because you have a belief that says you should do so. Is this coming clearer?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Entity:** Therefore, it's not about the idea of falling back on the excuse of having the habit of doing this. It's no longer a habit because you're aware you had the habit. But once you know you have the habit, that is the end of the habit, not the beginning of the process of getting rid of the habit. When you know the habit, that's it. It's gone. Now you get into the real work of knowing ah I have now discovered that I have this pattern. But now that I know it's no longer there, I find that if my behavior continues to exhibit the pattern, it's not that it's a pattern. It's that I have a belief that motivates me to continue to behave in that direction. What the heck is that belief colloquially speaking? So what the heck is that belief?

**Questioner:** Um I think that there's a belief that I have to maybe it goes back to I'm not worthy. I have to settle for it's what we just said. You are willing to short change yourself.

**Entity:** If you are willing to short change yourself, how can you expect the universe to give you abundance? You understand? This is all about honoring yourself. It's all about understanding that you are the first coin you have to spend. And if you're not willing to believe you have value, you what can you buy? Do you understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. You're saying you have devalued.

**Entity:** So you have yourself, no concept of your own abundance and your capability to buy, so to speak, the reality you prefer with the coin of yourself because that's what it's bought with. The only value there is is your value. Everything is a reflection of your value. Money doesn't have value on its own. If you didn't exist, it would have no value at all. that wouldn't even exist as a concept. The only reason money on your planet has value if that is one of the symbols you wish to use as the idea of abundance just as valid as any other symbol and there are many. But if that's what you're using, you have to know that if you don't value yourself, you can't attract the symbol in a way that reflects the value. You have devalued your money by devaluing yourself. So you have nothing to spend. So you have to value yourself in order to valuate your money. Make sense?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Entity:** Does that give you something to work with?

**Questioner:** Yes. Do you feel a little bit richer?

**Entity:** Lighter. That's the same thing. Yeah. The higher frequency means you are operating closer to the idea of honoring yourself and valuing yourself. And that means your bank account is growing. Do you understand? And now that can begin to be reflected in your outer reality through the synchronicities that will start occurring to reflect your willingness to value yourself. Your physical reality can only be reflected. But if it doesn't reflect something you say you want, you have to understand you're not giving off the image to be reflected and that's all there is to it. You're not being who you are because who you are called you. Who you are naturally is abundant is joyful is created. Why? Because you are made in the image of creation. What can you do but create? That's your nature to create on all levels you put your intent and imagination to. So if you find that there is no creation happening in an area, you have to understand it's because you are not creating yourself to be there. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. Thank you. Thank you.

### **Conversation 11: Holistic Beings, Hybrids, and Recommended Reading**

**Questioner:** Hello dear friend. How are you? Um, as I was thinking of some questions to ask, I found that the answers were coming to me, which was very understanding.

**Entity:** You do all have the answers and I am only sharing these things with you to remind you of that fact. Thank you. As some of these answers are coming, I perceive your voice as the echo of some of these answers. You are creating your energy to match my frequency and so it is translating into the idea of the augmentation of the channel's voice. Thank you. Because that's the vibration you are familiar with in terms of symbolizing when you are on that level. You're using me as a guideline in a sense. So it's more of a vibrational uh matching rather than than a yes. Resonance identification. That means you are now tapped into the level of your own energy that is equal to the level I am giving off.

**Questioner:** Okay. Thank you. Um one last question I want to ask about my son. the being that was up here with my wife, the mountain, the mountain, ever at rest. And I I stand in awe of this game and um all as in all sh um is there anything that you might share at this time that might help us to better serve him or to know about his...

**Entity:** I will certainly put this to you. He represents the idea that you are certainly both powerful enough to have called the mountain to you instead of having to have gone to the mountain. Take that to heart and see what that does.

**Questioner:** Thank you very much.

**Entity:** Thank you. two purposes. two purposes.

**Questioner:** Uh I was just thinking about the present is not a result of the past and you had talked about that a long time ago saying that uh this was a microser of what reality. Yes. All right. and uh we move into now this is uh I've heard it said that the metaphysical tools that we've had in the past are going to change now in some senses they will become somewhat streamlined yes and it doesn't mean that they have no value but as you accelerate of course like anything as a child grows up it understands that it can use tools different tools in a different way how they change and what new tool those who use the code.

**Entity:** Well, some of the idea will in of itself be similar to what we have described earlier in this conversation with the literalization of such concepts as the cone because it represents an amalgamation of your collective consciousness's recognition that you are connected to the atheric and manifest the physical reality technically speaking from the atheric. So that will be like a consolidation of all sorts of different metaphysical tools that will no longer be necessary per se when you recognize the code as an amalgamation of all that thought, all that intent, all that understanding and have simplified it into the simple geometric that will perform the same function as perhaps 5 6 7 8 9 other tools. That kind of thing. Here's one example. That's the energy.

**Questioner:** Yes. Yes. And that's still viable.

**Entity:** Yes. Although again, it doesn't necessarily have to be done that way. As we say, you can utilize this device in any way, shape, or form. Your imagination directs you. But you can do it that way if you wish. In a sense, it is like reclaiming the magic within you. If you wish to do it that way and play with it that way, that's all right and it will work. And uh uh we're just talking about the holistic beings.

**Questioner:** Yes. And which beings can you expect to uh uh interact with? Expect over time to interact with the idea of hybrids.

**Entity:** You can expect over time to interact with the idea of hybrids. You can expect over time to interact with the idea of plleadenss of serious energy and a variety of other members of the association that we will not necessarily go into at this time in the physical physical.

**Questioner:** Yes. Eventually.

**Entity:** Yes. We understood that you meant the idea of physical and that is what we are entering. Yes. You may find that you will deal with them tangentially because they represent a tangential connection to the graves which are evolving into another form altogether. So the idea of relations with what you call the reptilians will be handled very differently. It is not that it will not eventually happen that way, but there will be many other things that have to be put in place before such a relationship can occur because it is not necessarily that such a relationship is directly a part of the kinds of relationships you will form with regard to your connection to the association for they are not directly a part of it in that way.

**Questioner:** And the rules uh how will you tell if we're interested?

**Entity:** You will find yourself filled with a great overwhelming sense of love, compassion, and at the same time extreme sensuality and earthiness, so to speak. But balanced different aspects.

**Questioner:** Yes. Different aspects. Yes. What uh was involved in personal makeup?

**Entity:** Yes. Okay. lifetimes. lifetimes. Okay. Extreme feational aspect, the personality aspect. Of course, always you can leave nothing out because acceleration can only be the part of the acceptance and integration of all aspects, not the in a sense exclusion of anything this look like if they could interact.

**Questioner:** All right, they have the right to interact. Remember of course that we are talking about different fractions and levels of grades when you say that and there are different agendas for each level to certain degrees but you are in that sense referring to the level that recognizes the agenda for a particular reason. Well, the same for any particular reason in general because these in general with which group with which faction or the grays but the grays cover a wide spectrum of factions and groups with different agendas.

**Questioner:** Yes, I understand that what I'm saying is this. Yes, the faction is that the abductions occur. Okay. There's more than one faction that that occurs. That's what I'm saying. It's more than one.

**Entity:** Yes.

**Questioner:** Do they all look like it? But because we can interact in this room uh detain because they have zero let's say the majority of them recognize it as a form of agreement.

**Entity:** Some of them will in a sense impose their own agenda and color the idea of that agreement in a way that you might find a little bit more abrupt or inconsider. Others will come from a level of understanding of recognizing the agreement that has been made that in your perspective will be shall we say more beneficial or more loving. However, there are some that do not recognize the agreement per se at all, but simply they have a need and in that sense are right because they have a need and it has nothing at all to do with the recognition of any agreement that you may have made with them on a soul level.

**Questioner:** Well, in essence, that's what I'm talking about is that interacting.

**Entity:** Yes. Because it's still experience for you individual.

**Questioner:** Yes. Okay. But in all those interactions of all of those different those different ways feel level. feel level. Yes. How about the personality level conscious personality level? This is what's going on here. Are you talking about the human?

**Entity:** I'm talking about the take into consideration the reaction of the human. That's right. The reaction. The idea is again multiffold. Some simply feel that they should disregard it because it is not as important as the agenda. Others recognize it perhaps from the idea of the soul level in the same way that your soul. Not that it ignores you, not that it doesn't take it into consideration, but simply recognizes it is not as important that your physical persona may in your terms freak out for a moment because the soul may recognize that there is a greater lesson, a greater experience being had that is worth the momentary trouble. In the same way that you may feel a certain job is worth doing, even though it may contain a little bit of pain and struggle from time to time or you may hurt yourself a little, strain yourself a little bit, that doesn't always necessarily come into play with the idea of your overall quote unquote goal in the reason for doing what you're doing. From the soul's point of view, what may, I understand, and this is not a diminishment of the experience, what may to the physical persona seem overwhelmingly terrifying from the over soul's point of view may be nothing more inconvenient than a hangail temporarily. And that's another level upon which it sometimes is looked by some of the more advanced grades. In other words, they understand that the physical reality does by definition contain the potential to have pain in the situation for a variety of reasons more often than not from the suppressed fear idea that exists within humanity. But that is not a good enough reason for them not to do it because of what they understand will be the great benefit that the pain can be used to be transformed into eventually that will result for your society as well as for theirs. So in that sense what you may simply say is that the ultimate benefits outweigh the temporary inconvenience of the terror.

**Questioner:** All right. So this is in effect like a parent on this planet child relationship.

**Entity:** That's very [Music] analogy. Not exactly because the idea in that scenario. The reasons for why such a scenario may exist there have more potential to come from devaluation and lack of understanding on the part of the parent and the child simultaneously instead of finding another way to resolve that idea. I understand the context in which you mean it. But perhaps a more apt scenario might be the idea of taking the child to a doctor and knowing that even though the procedure that you may be subjecting the child to may be temporarily painful, we know that ultimately it is for their own good because it will heal them even though they may be very frightened by the experience. that is a little more apt energetically because it contains fewer divergent possible reasons for why that might occur rather than the idea of physical harm in that sense has less opportunity to have in your terms a quote unquote the reason for happening physical so the idea yes a physical impact that may be physically harming the body depends upon the scenario of course I understand. But simply put, in general terms, the idea of feeling the need to hit a child usually will have less opportunities for actually having a good reason than the idea of simply subjecting the child to a painful experience such as a doctor for its own good.

**Questioner:** I love uh uh what's a child? Yes. Smacking a child. That's like it's like in your face when you like it's like in your face when you make another one. It's not like that.

**Entity:** There are times in which it may in a sense be appropriate only on the same level and for the same reason as the idea that a Zen master may smack an acolyte to bring it back to understanding. However, all I am saying is while I understand the reason you use the analogy in that spirit, but we simply wish to add because we felt it would be important to add that there are not as many positive reasons for such an act as there might be for the other analogy we gave.

**Questioner:** Yes. It's not like an induction or nothing. You know what I mean? Yeah. And so I mean you know why why is such a difference you know what I'm talking about if any the agenda of the grays is simply very different in terms of its historical context from the agenda of the plleadenss in the same way that why you have the kinds of relations with one country that than you do from another country. It is a different historical context. They're coming from a completely different understanding of history and their own experience as to what they think your relationship is all about as opposed to where the grays are coming from in general. That's why they're different people. They're different altogether in many ways. What's the difference in the thought process between what you might call a gray and a plleadian?

**Entity:** Yes. Gray plad and the idea perhaps of the gray. Would that in general be the overall agenda of survival and continuation of the species from the damage it caused itself? The overall agenda of the human is the idea of the integration of all the things it has suppressed within itself. The ultimate idea of the agenda of the Plleadian is the willingness similar to some degree but not on the same level to allow there to be a balance in polarity. But still the major agenda is to recognize that pain does not have to be experienced in their reality at this time. Though they have to more broadly accept the idea that the polarity that you call negativity does have to be accepted as completely as the polarity you call unconditional love. They are more similar to the human agenda than the grays may be in that context of thought process of how they see themselves, how they see you, how you see yourselves, how you see the others, how the grays see themselves, so on and so forth. and see the interaction between and uh the uh uh agenda of the hybrid program.

**Questioner:** How do you view all that?

**Entity:** They view it ultimately from the positive point of view coming from the high fourth density vibration that they do. They see the ultimate positive outcome because that is the domain in which they reside and as such that is the portion of the overall agenda they most commonly interact with. None. with. None. Um, in other words, like you, they see and experience only what their vibration allows them to see and experience. So, for the most part, they only experience the portion of the gray agenda that has what you would consider to be ultimately a beneficial outcome that they can interact with. 

**Entity:** At this time like to in speaking of holism as you were though we rarely do this in this case we find it has meaning and importance for this interaction and for many interactions taking place now. We will in that sense suggest a literary work that at this time we perceive can be one of the most beneficial literary works that exists on your planet. for the idea of getting in touch with all these things in a clear and constructive way and that would be what you would call the book conversations with God by the author Walsh. We will in a sense suggest and recommend at this time that of many of the idea of literary works on our planet that we have suggested. This one will be in terms of percentage 100% clear. Read it. That is our strong suggestion at this time. It is the product of the collective consciousness of your planet finally answering itself in as clear a way as possible it can. You will recognize in the book that you are speaking for yourself. You will feel it. You will know the truth. It will help you wake up. Read it. At this time, we extend once again to you our unconditional love and deep appreciation at the creativity of the creation of your reality that allows us to dream you into our reality. And we thank you for dreaming us into your own or perhaps more precisely for co-creating the new third balanced centered reality in which we both interact as equals. and in every context in which it means something to you as unconditional lovers.

