---
heading: Part 1
title: "Is There a Santa Claus"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1996-09-21
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 15
tags: ['']
---


Many of you on your planet has made a transition into absolute awareness of the existence of what you would call extraterrestrial beings and spirit beings. 

This is the individual you understand to be named as Darryl Anka. In this way, you will find that this individual has translated into the non-physical and now is very aware of the existence of many different types of life. We would perhaps chance to say he is aware that there are billions upon billions. It is received and understood that the message sent back is: "I had to play a certain part in a certain way at a certain time." It is understood that this part had to be played so that there would be the creation of the polarity necessary for individuals to decide for themselves what they wanted to believe, which way they wanted to go, and how it was to be that information would be released and played out in time and in timing in the society to which this individual used to belong. 

The idea, therefore, is that this individual in spirit will actually in some senses participate in the assisting of the acceleration of the day and time when and where future meetings between extraterrestrials and your people will occur. The idea therefore is, as has been expressed: yes, send your support, send your love. For this individual now sees the bigger picture of the part that this individual played in the physical life and now has awareness of what the entire agenda, at least on a certain level, is really all about.

We would now like to continue this transmission beyond this acknowledgement in the acknowledgement of another type of being that many of you know about in what you would call your spirit of the season as Santa Claus. 


We would like to express the idea of, shall we say, the origin of this idea and the recognition that there actually in a sense, and in a certain context, is such a being in what you would call very ancient recognition of the archetype that exists in your collective consciousness. You will recognize that as many of your psychologists have begun to understand, an archetypal expression that is a representative portion of the collective consciousness of your entire culture or at least a large portion of it. 

By no means in any way shape or form does that mean that it is imaginary in the sense that it doesn't exist. Archetypes, though in a sense generated by the collective consciousness, do experience autonomy, do know themselves as individuated levels of consciousness. Because you are made in the image of the Infinite Creation, every thought you have can do nothing but help create a real reality on some level in some way. Many of the ideas of what you call your nature spirits and other forms of archetypal presentation, mythological beings as such, are in a sense concocted and created by the combined energy of the collective consciousness of your planet, in a sense given life, given breath, given reality, given existence because they represent a facet or a faction of the collective being that all of you together are. As such, they do, as we have said, have a type of autonomy, a type of individual experience.

The idea is that this being that you have come to know in your modern-day language as Santa Claus, in perhaps the older vernacular as St. Nicholas, is really a nature spirit in that sense. And you have in some senses—I will not mean this necessarily in a negative way—but in some senses distorted some of the original ideas or, shall we say, transmuted or translated some of the original energies representative of this being into your modern contexts, in some senses having, shall we say, lost some of the original understanding of what this being was all about, but still to some degree representing the original attributes of this entity. In your understanding of the idea of Santa Claus as a gift-giver, this is a more fundamental recognition of the idea of the power of that particular entity, of that nature spirit. And the idea is that it is to some degree representative of the concept of the third law: what you put out is what you get back. The idea of what many of you call the karmic balance, in that in your modern vernacular the idea colloquially put of not being nice and so getting no presents, or being good and getting favors, is a reflection of the original idea that this was in a sense a karmically reflective entity. In other words, it reflected exactly the idea of the energy of any particular entity or individual it encountered. So the idea of negative intention was reflected back as negative experience; positive intention reflected back as positive experience by this being, by this nature spirit, by this archetypal facet of your collective reality.

In many ways, because it is an exemplification of the idea of nature, it expresses as many ideas of nature spirits do archetypally many attributes found in nature, in a sense a combination or collection of many attributes found in the idea of the animal kingdom and so forth. So for example, the idea of what you now have relegated to be the reindeer of Santa Claus is not so much the idea of reindeer pulling a sleigh, but the idea of the association to that particular animal totem, if you will, and also the recognition that the hoofprints left in the snow in that sense in many occasions do not actually belong to the reindeer but to this entity itself. For it has in that sense some of the attributes of the reindeer, including the idea of the hooves. When it is taking physical form, it does not always exist in the idea of what you would call physical material form, but when it concentrates its energy, or its energy is concentrated by a collective awareness or a collective focus on the part of your people, thus giving it more chance to materialize or crystallize into a sort of solid form in your reality, it does take on the attributes of the idea of nature, including the idea of animalistic attributes from time to time.

The idea also is that it exemplifies many other facets and attributes that you have in that sense attributed to the idea of Santa Claus. The idea of the red suit in that sense is actually the idea of what might be called a cloak of night, but in this sense, the idea of red is that it represents the fundamental life blood of the being and the idea of the vibration of grounded reality and what might be called the Root chakra of your energy system. Thus, it is a representation of something very, as you would say, earthy and fundamental in the idea of being rooted into nature and the representation of the manifestation of gifts and abundance that are all around you in nature—that which was always there for you, always is now, and always shall be. And so on that fundamental level, the idea of the gift-giving idea of nature represented in this particular archetypal facet or entity. So do understand that it is actually quite possible from time to time, when the circumstances warrant it, to actually find yourself interacting in the appropriate state with this actual entity, though you may not recognize it in the way that you have depicted it exactly in your society. You will find that it is actually, shall we say, in a sense a changeling, a shape-shifter, in that it may present itself in a variety of ways depending upon, again, what it is reflecting back to you if and when it is encountered, and also representative in general of the collective, shall we say, spirit or emotional mood of the collective society, whether the whole society or a large group as it may be occurring at any given moment. So allow yourself to understand this being does exist, though not always in the way that you may think of it, and in that sense, it is quite possible to encounter this being when you get in touch with the idea of abundance of nature in its most fundamental form, in its most well-grounded and earthly rooted form. And when you allow yourself to be out in the idea of the wilderness from time to time, when conditions are right, this entity can be manifested and can be encountered just like many other kinds of ideas of spirit contact can manifest and can occur with regard to the natural kingdom of things, as it is representative of that portion of your collective consciousness and a reflection back to you of attributes each and every one of you individually contained.

We would like to continue this dialogue this day of your time with another idea that is a little bit more of a reinforcement of the concept of being in the moment, understanding that every change is a complete change, and that knowing that every change you make, every change you make no matter how small you may deem it to be, is a total change, a complete change. And that it is a representation of the fact that you are with every change literally, literally, literally a new person in that new moment, having no connection to the other person you were a moment ago. And the reason for this, and what we would like to reinforce about this now, is because whatever it is you deem yourself to be here and now, whatever changes you make and whatever new definitions you have of yourself are the definitions of this moment. And you, the you you are right now, never were the other person. Never. Ever. Every moment is discrete. Every moment is unique. Every moment only exists now. And as we have said a few times, what you may perceive in your physical reality as a succession of moment to moment to moment to moment is all the same one moment because there's only one moment in creation and that's now. It is all the same one moment from different points of view expressed in a linear mode because that's the definition of physical reality.

Nevertheless, understand this: what you experience as remembering your past, even in this life, who you believe you were a moment ago—even though this doesn't happen—you are who you are now. You have never existed before this now. You were not anyone else a moment ago except in the larger sense, the larger sense of the bigger you that contains all the moments, all the lives, all the separate expressions of the whole entity. But speaking on a personality level, as a person, the person you are now is here and now for the very first time, and this person never was any other person. The idea, therefore, of the experience you have of remembering yourself a moment ago as you think you used to be is a relationship you create from the present with another person. And in honoring and sending unconditional love, in honoring that person for the state they represent of the total being that you are, you make a connection of continuity to them from now. They do not influence you from then; you do not come forward from then being influenced literally by the experience they have in their reality. You make the connection from the now to them, and you honor them and love them, and in so doing draw upon and include the idea of their experience into the definition of your experience of yourself here and now. But there is actually no literal continuity in time. The past does not create the present; the present creates the past. So understand that right here, right now, you are this person for the very first time, and you have never, never, never, never been anyone else.

The idea is that as you begin to realize that all of the supposed versions of you you think you have then are actually discretely different people, you can begin to re-decide more clearly who you are, who you want to be, and in so being, decide consciously to make the connections you want to make to the so-called past or future selves that are simultaneously coexistent with you side by side, as your ability to draw from their experiences to create the definition of your present here and now. Just as other beings that you might call other versions of you might be doing with you by honoring you, connecting to you, acknowledging and recognizing your existence consciously, and making the connection to draw from your experience to decide whether or not your experience is appropo for the experience and definition that they are choosing to be in their now moment. But that's a different person. Yes, totally, absolutely, completely on every different level.

So we would like to simply point this out to you so that when your mind can in a sense get a handle on this idea, it will function as a very powerful tool of transformation for you to understand that you are not connected in any way shape or form to anything that you do not deem to be connected to, that you do not choose to be connected to. You define yourself in the Here and Now utterly and absolutely, and that is that, as they say in your language.

One more item we would like to remind you of again from time to time—though this is rare for a variety of reasons, but from time to time we will again suggest a particular literary work that exists on your planet as being possibly beneficial for many of you—and we have already suggested this once. We will suggest it once again to allow you to understand that we deem this to be of great benefit to you, especially in that it has come through a member of your society and can in a sense come through all of you as you experience yourself. And once again, the title of this work is *Conversations with God* by the entity that you call Walsh. We would recommend—and again, this is rare—you read this work again and again and again until you breathe it, until you live it, until it is your very essence in every cell. Because if you do, and when you do, you will understand everything you need to understand to be the self-realized reflection of the infinite you were designed to be. You can get all this information and have gotten all this information from a variety of sources. You can get all this information and many times do get this information from your own self. This is not in any way shape or form—do I stress this importantly?—not in any way shape or form to negate the idea that you yourself have the ability to get all the information we have or any other source may have. This is not to send you running to any idea of another teacher and take away the responsibility of your self-empowerment. This is to put you in touch directly with your self-empowerment and recognize your equality with us, with every being, and even with what you call the idea of God. The idea again: read it, absorb it, be it. It is one of the greatest gifts you have given to yourselves to now bring into reality and manifestation, this particular work. It is a reflection of the fact that it is time for you all to understand this information, and of course what that means is that there's no more excuses for not being who you want to be.

So we once again extend to each and every one of you our deep appreciation and being allowed to communicate with you in this way at this time. Once again, we thank you for the great gift you are giving to us of this sharing, and in return, we ask you now: in what way may we assist you? And good day to you.

***

### **Conversation 1: The New Year and Personal Transformation**

**Participant:** Do you have the electric stick? All right. Doo the god... the god book. Yes. Then do not discuss it until you have... Hi, okay, it's on now. So do not discuss it until you have... Okay, I would stop with us anyway. Okay, um, I would like to ask you if you might want to share something about the new year, some ideas that you might have or some ways of looking at things.

**Bashar:** What we will tell you is this: based on what we have just told each and every one of you about there being no more excuses, we will find that it will be available to us in what you call your upcoming new cycle, new orbit, New Year, in each and every new transmission to co-create with each and every one of you who will attend a particular exercise each and every time, specifically designed for the acceleration of your energy and the manifestation of the recognition of who and what each and every one of you are. They will be in each session, therefore, a new exercise that will deal specifically with this issue of realizing yourself more strongly, more aware. But again, remember this is going to be in a sense a graduate course. There will be no excuses for not being yourself as best as you possibly can be. And therefore, on this note, again, the recommendation to read this work in a sense is a preparation and a primer for the work we will do in your upcoming New Year together if you wish to participate. Therefore, read it, for it will not in that sense be to your best advantage if you do not at least have one reading under your belt, as you say, for we will be discussing many of the principles therein and allowing you to make them your own, to incorporate them fully into your day-to-day reality, into your thoughts, words, deeds, into your actions, into your beliefs, into your very structure, into your being. So read it and we will work on these ideas together in an elevated and accelerated methodology in your new year. Thank you very much.

**Participant:** I have one other question. Last time I was talking to you about my car and the brakes and everything, and um, it put me through some realizations and um, some changes, transformations. And I feel like I'm not going to create that crisis now. I feel like I've made my decision and I'm not going to create that, and then I'm on my way to, um, resolving, you know, finding the greatest fear, whatever I need to look at. And that book about talking to God really has pushed some buttons and it's helping me get in touch with that.

**Bashar:** All right, we shall see. So okay. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, good day.

***

### **Conversation 2: Dream Interpretation (UFOs and Green Light)**

**Participant:** I'd like to share a dream I had. Oh, right. Do share. Um, is this home? Okay. Uh, another UFO dream. Nice. Um, and it was nice, it was very colorful. Uh, I wouldn't classify it as a vision, but uh, had to do with me uh looking at a round circular UFO and I was in my friend Luc's backyard, all right, in uh Venice, and you were there—or rather Darryl was there—all right. And uh, we were outside in the backyard talking. You had some kind of instrument or uh, I thought it was a... a beam gun, you mean? I did? Or the channel did? Channel did. All right. And it was shooting up green light into the sky. Yes. And I had some questions about it and I asked Darryl, "Is that a particle gun?" And uh, he said, "No, not exactly." And I realized, "Well, it's probably not electrons. Well, it's probably also a wave gun." And uh, just then, um, a UFO came from behind me over the telephone poles and it was kind of like moving around just a little bit, kind of hovering but going side by side. Yes. And it was pretty close, maybe 3,000 feet or so. And uh, uh, Darryl moved away under a tree and I was looking at it and somehow I got the gun and I was shooting it straight up in the sky, a green, green light. Rather nice. And well, that's uh, pretty much it.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right. Did you have a good time in this dream?

**Participant:** Yes, I liked the dream.

**Bashar:** All right. Do you understand its symbolism for you?

**Participant:** Not at all. Not at all. Not whatsoever. Not a clue.

**Bashar:** Is that what you are saying? Um, not a hint, not an intuition, not a glimmer, not a ghost?

**Participant:** Well, what comes to mind is the uh... it brought up that uh, I was being contacted. And that in a sense, but not as literally as the dream may have depicted, those were projections of symbologies that cloaked the idea of what you experienced in framework that would make some sense to you, or at least give you some sense of the atmosphere or environment of the issue and energy that you are dealing with. But it was not a literalization.

**Bashar:** Oh, okay. Yeah, I can see that. Like, is experiencing new uh, ET energy?

**Participant:** It is not the idea of new ET energy, not specifically, even though extraterrestrial energy to some degree was involved in assisting you in concocting that reflection for yourself. But it has nothing at all to do with the idea of contacting new ET energy. It has to do with contacting more of yourself. The green ray is the ray of the heart. The understanding that it is very important at this time to rely on communication—telephone lines, right? Communication from the heart, from the green ray. You understand?

**Participant:** Yes, that is the message in your dream.

**Bashar:** Oh, okay. Does that help you?

**Participant:** Yes, very good. Thank you very much.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Next. Good day.

***

### **Conversation 3: The Council of Nine Codex and Wizard Hats**

**Participant:** Good. I wanted to share with you that I did my count. Oh, I waited. I didn't wait for the stick. Yes, I did my Council of Nine codex. Codex. Yes. I don't know if you wanted to share the symbols or I could just show Darryl afterwards. Is up to you. But the idea again is to simply share what you wish to share about the experience of creating this reflective tool for yourself if you wish to.

**Participant:** Well, I could see that it's not done just at once, that I'll be adding to it.

**Bashar:** Oh, yes. It is an ongoing tool. It can be changed and transformed, as you say, for a long time if you wish. It is something that is highly reflective and in many ways, of course, being a reflection, will change according to how you decide to change. So it is an ongoing tool that you can use to help put you in touch with more of your own self, more of your own intuition, more of your own psychic sensitivity, more of your own discernment, many of your own attributes. And as you change by incorporating the reflections that it helps you get in touch with, you will of course then have to reflect back to it what changes you now represent and transform it accordingly so it can be more of an accurate reflection back to you again and again and again, over and over and over, accelerating yourself upward by that methodology. Of course, that's not the only way to do it, but that is one way it will work for you.

**Participant:** Okay. Um, yes. I came up with an anagram of TRUST: "Truly Relying Upon Synchronous Timing."

**Bashar:** Why, thank you. Very creative of you.

**Participant:** Yeah, it took... it had took the help of my friend Christine is all.

**Bashar:** All right. We played with it and it was fun. Yes. Um, reflections and relationships are always beneficial for spontaneous creativity.

**Participant:** I wanted to ask you a little bit more about the cone shapes. We're really excited about them. Yes. What I... a couple things I want to know about is the difference between actually wearing one on your head or putting one on the earth. Guys, is it um... well, when I... I get the idea of when they're wearing it on their head, it has to do with the person that's wearing it. Yes. When as long as it is in that very specific particular ratio as we have defined it, that takes advantage of the Phi mathematical ratio. Yes, I'm assuming you know that we were talking about that shape.

**Bashar:** Yes, exactly that shape. Not a degree off.

**Participant:** When exactly that shape? Yeah.

**Bashar:** Okay. So it's like a pyramid. If it's a degree off, you're just not getting the real thing. It will be out of focus like any kind of a lens would be if it were not precisely made.

**Participant:** Yes, you won't get... like a wrong number. It was a joke anyway.

**Bashar:** Um, we might if we thought it would be fun, okay? But in this case, we have not. It is precise as a tool.

**Participant:** Does the energy... I want to tell you first, I got the idea of putting the infinity symbol over the top. I was just playing with the cone shape and I put the infinity symbol over it. I don't know if that was... I was wondering if I was on to something.

**Bashar:** In a sense, you are. Yes. Because at the apex, it is a sign that it connects into Infinity. That's why it is the apex. It brings the multi-dimensionality down into physical reality, and at the apex, that represents the eye of the needle, that fulcrum point that taps into all possible reality. Therefore, yes, Infinity. Again, that is an intuitive symbolic understanding of what is happening when the cone translates non-physical energy into physical reality.

**Participant:** Okay. There's a building um, across the street from the Disney building and it's in the shape of... it's a wizard hat. I don't know if it's the exact... if it's the exact proportions.

**Bashar:** No, it is not.

**Participant:** Okay. If it was, what would be is that like the difference, you know, just like a really stronger version of wearing one on your head? Yes. I want to know: is the energy inside? In the bottom? Is it above? Is it around?

**Bashar:** Again, it can be tapped and siphoned from a variety of points depending upon exactly how you wish to use it. But generally, it is contained within and in around the base, it is dispersed into your reality.

**Participant:** Regarding to how I wish to use it or how anyone would wish to use it?

**Bashar:** Again, it will depend upon the individual entity vibration in terms of how they interact with the vibration of how that energy is translating. But the idea in general, and the reason why individuals intuitively understood to place it in that building as you say, is because it will help to spark the very idea itself of awareness of interdimensional realities and thus what you call imagination and creativity.

**Participant:** And you talked about it actually uh, it was uh, physically physicalizing things in the physical dimension.

**Bashar:** Yes, of course. Again, this depends upon what material it is made out of and exactly how it is utilized as to exactly what mode of physicalization takes place. By in a sense immersing yourself in it or wearing the shape—though you don't have to do that—you are the manifesting modality through which the information comes in. In other words, it physicalizes through your actions, through your inspiration, through what you are inspired to take action on. But there are versions of this device made out of different materials that will actually translate etheric energy into different forms of physical energy as well, and even in some cases, depending upon the material, the size, and the location, actual materialization of intention and objects can occur.

**Participant:** What kind of materials? For instance, could you give me like three off hand?

**Bashar:** Gold, silver, and copper.

**Participant:** Okay. So if I make one out of a file folder paper, is it still going to have some effect?

**Bashar:** Yes, it will have some effect. But again, remember it must be exceedingly precise. And therefore, allow yourself to understand that from time to time, choosing certain materials may not necessarily allow you to achieve a degree of precision necessary. It would be wiser to build it out of something that will allow you to attain the degree of precision necessary so that there is no warpage in the construction at all. For if it is slightly out of round, as you say, if a seam is exposed in that sense, it alters the shape, it alters the flow of the energy.

**Participant:** Do you know what the wizard's hats were made of in our history?

**Bashar:** A variety of things. But in ancient times, again, they were made out of more the idea of material that would not bend in that sense or could hold its shape over time. You lost the understanding of exactly what this was for, and therefore in later times these hats were made out of a variety of other materials that were not necessarily as precise but still held the same notion behind it.

**Participant:** So I want to explore this like from the lay person's point of view, not like a scientist. What material would you suggest?

**Bashar:** Depends on what you want to do.

**Participant:** Suggest depends on what you want to do? What do you want to do?

**Bashar:** You can begin with a conductive material if you wish, the idea of copper if you wish. But you can experiment and explore with the idea of a variety of other materials such as wood if you wish, and again even what you call the idea of your paper and cardboard will suffice to create certain effects. But the idea again is that you must, shall we say, take care to make sure it is very precise.

**Participant:** Okay. Thank you. Thank you. And then you number two: do you know who you are?

**Bashar:** All right. Number one, good day.

***

### **Conversation 4: Weather, The Observer, and Health Concerns**

**Participant:** Um, on that note, talking about the idea of the Wizard's cap, last week when you told us about that, somebody said something about someone having one on the front of an airplane and how it changed the weather. And it made me think: how is weather related to the other dimensions? I mean, what is it? The idea of the energy that goes into helping form your weather patterns?

**Bashar:** This is not the whole idea, but a very large portion of the kind of energy that goes into helping those patterns come about has to do with the collective emotional consciousness of your people, of your entire planet, and sometimes even of a local group that exerts a very high emotional energy pressure or low emotional energy pressure into the surrounding atmosphere. It will be reflected in a variety of ways in the actual physical manifestation of a variety of forms of weather. Thus, the idea of this cone is that it acts in a sense as an amplifier of intention, as we have said, and the manifestation is that it acts upon the idea of some of these etheric patterns and translates it into the idea of the environment in which it was placed, which was in the idea of moving through the air. You understand? MH. Therefore, it created atmospheric change because that is how it was directed.

**Participant:** All right. Does that help you?

**Participant:** Yeah. Um, also I wanted to um, just share with you what I had thought about the Observer. Yes. When this being came through, I got the sense that this being was like Oversoul or Higher Self in a sense.

**Bashar:** You are very correct. In a sense.

**Participant:** What do you mean "in a sense"?

**Bashar:** It is a notion that does not necessarily translate well into your language. But Oversoul, in a sense, will do. The Observer, for lack of a better term, as you are apt to say in your language, could be only from one point of view. Of course, we do not want to make this rigidified. You understand? Mhm. From one point of view, one perspective. The Observer, the being, the entity that in your language we called The Observer, is like unto the Oversoul of the Association.

**Participant:** Association? Oh. Do you understand this?

**Participant:** Yeah, I mean, somewhat. I mean, it was much of... I can in this context... wow, that's really interesting.

**Bashar:** In some contexts, yes. Although the idea of what you call the Buddha nature, the Christ Consciousness, the Krishna spirit, will more have to do with the idea of an Oversoul or World Spirit that is collectively representative of your particular domain, even though it does connect into other dimensionality. The Observer is like unto the Oversoul of many, many, many, many domains—the collective of all of the worlds in the Association of Worlds and more than that. But it functions on one level as the Oversoul of the Association of Worlds of which we belong.

**Participant:** Wow, that's big.

**Bashar:** In a sense, I suppose. Although relative to other things, it is infinitesimal, since of course everything is infinite. Right?

**Participant:** Um, okay. Um, another note: my mother is very concerned about her sister, and she asked me if I would ask you about her sister.

**Bashar:** In what way is she, as you say, concerned?

**Participant:** Well, her sister seems to be having symptoms which could be maybe like Alzheimer's or something, where she's losing her memory. She was concerned about her, and I said I didn't know that you would be able to...

**Bashar:** What is the sister willing to do in terms of exploring the idea of energy balancing in a natural way for her body?

**Participant:** I don't even think she realizes there's anything the matter. So I don't know that there's any...

**Bashar:** Then what is, in your terms, creating the impression in an individual that something, as you say, is the matter?

**Participant:** Um, just that she's not, you know, definitely not remembering things that would be really normal for someone to remember, and all right, to be losing some of her faculties.

**Bashar:** All right. Again, remember that you have to take each individual case at a time and understand that sometimes these things do serve a positive purpose. But in general, yes, sometimes these can be representative of the idea of being out of balance. But it will be, of course, as you indicate, up to the individual to: A) acknowledge that there may be an imbalance to begin with in order for anything to be done; and B) if this imbalance is recognized and acknowledged, if such exists, then the individual must be willing to take some action in the direction of seeking to rebalance the self, which of course can always be done in a very natural way without the idea of negatively impacting the system, if they are willing to explore that. But these things have to be determined first.

**Participant:** MH. That's true. Okay. One last thing. Um, I was doing N.E. [Neuro-Energetics] with my chiropractor, and with the connection that was made with something that had come up for me in relationship to a relationship I had now, and it went back to when I was 11. I was just thinking about, you know, how that happens with all of us, how we have these wounds or whatever from our past that pop up until we unplug from that.

**Bashar:** Yes. Well, they are in a sense, of course, physiological neurological nets stored in your energy matrix. And if they are stored in that sense, then they can be released by a variety of techniques. And so, as you say, will come up from time to time depending upon what kind of circumstance you put yourself under that may be conducive to releasing those stored energy patterns.

**Participant:** MH. I was just wondering if you had any recommendations for us, for you know, the most sort of efficient way, and sort of the way that you could do it yourself, where you could tap into these and sort of look at them on your own. And do you mean instead of banging yourself on the head with a brick? Yeah, something other than that, or having to pay somebody a lot of money to, you know, do that. And the other ways that we could do it ourselves.

**Bashar:** I see. Now, I will ask you a question if I may. Thank you very much. I will. In that you conceived of the concept that it might be possible to do yourself, does your imagination not provide you with any idea of how you yourself might be able to go about doing this? After all, you conceive that it might be capable of being done. MH. Well, why stop with the question? Why not allow yourself to understand that your ability to ask the question means you have the answer, if you would only allow your imagination to give it to you? Exactly. Well, then be in a knowing state. Yes. So what does your imagination tell you might be one methodology that might work for you in terms of being capable of releasing these things, as you say, on your own? Although before you answer, if you're going to answer now, I do not necessarily want to take away from the idea that of course, if you attract yourself to assistance, that still can be your way of doing it. You understand?

**Participant:** And I really love the way of doing it, but I just thought, you know... yeah.

**Bashar:** All right. Well, what does your imagination tell you with regard to the idea of, in the classical sense, doing it yourself? What might be one way you think you could go about releasing some of this informational pattern within yourself? You want a hint?

**Participant:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** All right. I will give you a head start. Okay. What would your imagination come up with if I use the phrase: "Shock to the system"?

**Participant:** Shock to the system? Guys, because many of these things in a sense release with a shock to the system. In other words, a totally unexpected shift will many times release many of these patterns because all of a sudden, in a sense, they are short-circuited. It's the analogy of what you call the electron in the atom, as you and your scientists define it, changing an energy state, and in the abrupt change of energy giving off a photon of light. So the idea is that if you abruptly change your energy state, many of these things, in that they are complacently going about in their typical orbits, will all of a sudden be given a shock and in a will be kicked into a different energy state, and in a sense may be released from the system, at least to the degree where you can be aware that they are there and then deal with them. They may be exposed for a moment because you abruptly get out of your own way and see what inertial ideas remain fixed in the old position. You understand? I do. So how can you sidestep some of these ideas creatively so that you can see them for what they are?

**Participant:** No, I was... okay. When you said "shock," it threw me off because I had this idea...

**Bashar:** That's the point. It's supposed to throw you off. Do you get it? That's the point. In saying that, that's the exact feeling you need to get. You're supposed to be thrown off, disoriented, so that you can allow these things to come to the surface by not continuing to be who you typically would be, and thus by gaining a different perspective of yourself by being different in that sense, you might be capable in that moment of shock, all of a sudden, to look at yourself and see what reveals itself to you about yourself. Right? So by saying "shock to the system," we gave you not in the words, but in the energy, the exact hint you needed. And that was: all of a sudden you were disoriented, didn't know what to do. You understand? That's the exact energy you need. So the things that you can imagine doing that will allow you to experience that disorientation in a sense, in whatever way shape or form that you deem is creative for you, will give you some way of understanding. All of a sudden, you'll start to get new ideas about yourself. Paradox? Yes. See yourself in new ways? Yes. Now you're getting the point of the power of paradox. Yes. Congratulations.

**Participant:** Thank you. Does that help you?

**Participant:** Very much. Thanks a whole lot. Thank you. Number two: do you know who you are?

**Bashar:** All right.

***

### **Conversation 5: Essential Oils and the Three Wise Men**

**Participant:** Hello Bashar. And you? Good day. Um, what I wanted to discuss with you is essential oils. Especially what it brings to mind that when the three wise men came to visit baby Jesus, they brought with them oils for him. And I would like you to share with us maybe the components of those oils and the effect they have.

**Bashar:** All right. Again, the idea is that in the utilization of what you on your planet call Essential Oils, the first thing you must ascertain in your discernment is that they are highly, highly, highly purified. Well, the effect will not really be effective if they are not. You understand that first of all?

**Participant:** Absolutely. Yes. I have been introduced to some oils recently and I use them in my practice, and I believe that they're quite extraordinary.

**Bashar:** All right. The idea is that they aid and assist in the accelerating of certain vibratory frequencies that are connected to the energy grid of the body, or even what you might call the idea of the Vortex system or Chakra system, or the idea even of what you might call the ancient Chi system of the body, the acupuncture/acupressure points, so on and so forth. They help to energize, being so refined as an etheric vibration. They help to energize and balance the idea of certain points and systems in the body to help bring the body back into balance. Understand? Yes, of course. Each and every one of them will have a particular affinity to a particular Energy Center or energy idea that is out of balance, and of course, therefore, is the appropriate essential oil to utilize in the application thereof on that portion of the body or the portion that is connected to that energy center. Especially then in what you call the "absolute" version—that nomenclature, that name—the Absolutes, which are highly purified and highly refined, will be very potent in that sense. And in many cases, only a single drop will be representative of a high enough frequency, a high vibration, to cause major change within any particular system. It is similar to the idea—not exactly the same, but similar—to the idea of homeopathics, in what you term the refinement by succussion that, shall we say, extracts from the base material the higher, more refined etheric vibrational element or template structure. Some of this template etheric structure vibrationally, energetically, is representative of the more highly purified essential oils as well. Since they are extracts from nature, they have to do with that which is already included in nature by nature to attend to the imbalances that will occur in you naturally. Does that make sense?

**Participant:** Very much so. Um, could you sort of talk about the frankincense and myrrh?

**Bashar:** Yes. And again, the idea being that these represent certain centers of the body that were representative of connecting to higher planes, higher energies—that which has to do with farseeing, that which has to do with opening of the heart, anything that you would deem to be an attribute of the World Spirit, of self-realization and self-expression as who you really are. These two in particular have to do with the idea of the connection of the heart and the mind and the spoken word in that sense. You understand?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Um, this particular oil... investigate three terms from their original meaning and you will to some degree also understand the reason for the gold, the frankincense, and the myrrh, as they are symbolic of. Are you ready?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Enthusiasm. Apotheosis. Epiphany.

**Participant:** Enthusiasm... Apotheosis, I'm not sure I understand that word. Look it up. All right. Apotheosis. Enthusiasm. Apotheosis. And Epiphany. You got that?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** En-thous-os. Are you getting it?

**Participant:** Yes. Onos. God within. Okay.

**Bashar:** Apotheosis: God becoming. Epiphany: Recognition of God the self. And so in that sense, recognition of the idea of the Trinity concept. That's why those three were given. That is the specific vibrations they represent. You understand? So look up enthusiasm, apotheosis, and epiphany, and you will understand more specifically the vibrations of those particular three substances and the refined vibrations they symbolically represent in your particular reality domain.

**Participant:** Right. How could I learn more about how to use these oils?

**Bashar:** You can read. You can trust your intuition. Many different... There isn't very much information actually how to use them on the chakra system. There is a lot of information how to use them physically. Yes, that is all right. What we are simply saying is that by utilizing them physically where it is appropriate to use them, there is automatic activation and balance of the chakra system. Anywhere. It's not that you necessarily have to approach it from that idea specifically, although you can if your imagination and intuition says that that's something that represents your joy. By all means, trust your intuition and come up with a system that works for you. If none exists now, you have the ability to do that, or you would not be enthusiastic about this idea.

**Participant:** Yeah, I'm very enthusiastic about it because I've sort of be the representation of enthusiasm and be inwardly inspired, the God within. Therefore, come up—if something doesn't exist in your reality yet that you believe is necessary—come up with it. That's why you are where you are. Good idea. Does that help you?

**Participant:** Yes, very much so. Um, can you tell me anything about these certain oils that I'm using about the quality of them?

**Bashar:** You will have to determine that for yourself.

**Participant:** All right. All right. Yes. Thank you. Thank you very much. Sure. You and then you number two: do you know who you are?

**Bashar:** All right. Number three: do you know who you are?

**Participant:** All right. Number one, good day. Merry Christmas.

**Bashar:** And to you as well. Happy Hanukkah.

**Participant:** Thank you. Recently you were talking to someone, and I guess as in many cases, it was just as if you were talking to me, as very closely related to the last conversation I had with you. Um, yeah. And your pretty much your word-for-word was very close to it. Is being scared/sacred will force you into the exploration of your spirituality. It can be. It is one way. Yeah. I wonder if you could go into that a little bit, because my question beforehand was: I had believed that I had tied in to a concept that, uh, in order to be enlightened, righteous, whatever you want to call it, you have to go through a period of suffering and a challenge.

**Bashar:** Yes. Doesn't necessarily have to be experienced as suffering, but yes, the challenge is necessary for the evolution. Many people will allow it to be on the level of actual suffering, and this does not in any shape or form take away from the ability to transmute it, but it doesn't necessarily have to be actual suffering to be a tried-and-true challenge to the self. If it is accepted on that level, it will be transmuted as a challenge rather than experienced as true suffering.

**Participant:** Well, how does this work? In a sense, it just forces you to be in the now so much, or it throws you off, put you into a total now?

**Bashar:** How? Okay. Yes, that is what it does in a sense. All right. It also forces you to look at many different components and perspectives of yourself that you may not necessarily, shall we say, get to use in a typical day-to-day occurrence, so that you can really learn more about who you are and what you can bring to bear in any given situation, so to speak. Sometimes it's for that purpose too, to help round you out by showing you what you're capable of that you weren't aware you were capable of.

**Participant:** Okay. Um, another thing. Last time I was here, I was talking about crystals and you mentioned life in Atlantis. Um, in communication with my guides and our SA [Spiritual Advisor], I thought that I was uh, one of the bad guys that misused this power.

**Bashar:** Well, once upon a time. It doesn't mean that's the only life you had in Atlantean times. All of you have, as you say, played the bad guy more than once.

**Participant:** But in a specific one?

**Bashar:** Yes. With regard to... okay. Um, and so... well, I guess it just ties into a desire that I have in this lifetime to be the good guy. Well, acquire greater powers but to use them as the good guy.

**Bashar:** Yes. Yeah. Yes. Well, this is a natural result of knowing that you need to balance that idea within your total being.

**Participant:** Yeah. Okay. All right. Just one more thing. Um, you also mentioned I was familiar with fluid octahedron. Oh, did it? Was it well? I'm... and Antoinette was nice enough to bring me one. Oh. And I know that I should go in here and explore myself, what I can feel or do with these. I seem to get no connection. Can you at least guide me in the right direction or give me a hint of how I use that? Is that a representation or an actual crystal?

**Bashar:** It's an actual crystal.

**Participant:** All right. Is it of the appropriate color that we suggested?

**Participant:** Yes. All right. It's a little bit... a little bit clear, but yes, the same color.

**Bashar:** All right. In looking at this, do you have it with you now?

**Participant:** Yes, I do.

**Bashar:** Are you holding it in your hand?

**Participant:** Yes, I am.

**Bashar:** Which hand do you prefer to hold it in?

**Participant:** Well, I'm holding it in my left hand.

**Bashar:** All right. In regarding this, just look at it. Just look at it right now. Just look at it. Turn it around. Examine it from whatever side you have a fancy to examine it from, as you say. Just ponder it. Just contemplate it. Just have it there before you, right at your fingertips. In this moment of contemplation, does it represent in any way shape or form anything to you at all with regard to the idea of your Atlantean connection and knowledge?

**Participant:** Well, what came to me is uh, we are familiar with the pyramids in Egypt and seeing the top half, and since this goes down an equal direction the other direction, there's uh, I'm getting some type of an idea of an equal energy that we don't see in the same way.

**Bashar:** Very good. All right. Very good. In a sense, you could say a hidden half. Hidden half. Right. Right. Anything else that comes from your understanding that this hidden half exists, creating a whole? Not right now. All right. I'll give you a clue as well. Look sideways at the slice that represents the interface between the two halves. Okay. I will give you this, although this is only one portion of this road, one very small step, but you may find, mind you, that your consciousness will expand perhaps by including this as well. This has been given to you, as you say, by the entity you call in your language Anet. Yes. Yes. From a Kahuna to a Kachina. Okay. So explore the interface that appears to be dimensionless between the two halves. You will find it filled with many interesting things if you learn to look at it from the right angle.

**Participant:** All right. All right. Thank you. Thanks very much. Number two.

[Music]

**Participant:** Good day, Bashar.

**Bashar:** And you. Good day.

**Participant:** Um, enjoyed the information uh, this evening, and also the information that came through the Observer and about the 13 and uh, the Wizard's cap. Yes. Well, I would think that a mage in particular would enjoy the idea about the Wizard's cap. Yes. I sat there and tingled the whole time. Um, some reflections on the Observer. It felt as though um, he was observing the evolution of the earth and all of us and scanning us all. It... pardon me. It... um, is there any connection to the Watcher energy?

**Bashar:** Of course, there is a connection. The Watcher energy is contained within the Observer.

**Participant:** Okay. Uh, because in Egyptian times, uh, there was uh, one of the gods that was considered... um, uh, well, in the only planet of choice, Thoth was considered that being uh, that helped make the Sphinx. Uh, connection with the Council of Nine? And I wondered if there is a connection.

**Bashar:** Only in that a recognition was made of that level of consciousness level and the representation was created to symbolize it. But it is in a sense not a representation of the total energy of that being, but only of the facet that is, as you say, germane to the particular culture that represented it in their interpretation of their relationship to it. Since Above All, The Observer is the very epitome of the concept of relationship. Right? Um, is Observer, since he's the Oversoul of the Association... um, remember that that is not an absolute right definition. Right? That's an energetic. It is one way to understand or look at or reflect the relationship with the Observer. Right? But only one way. Okay. Um, but do proceed. Is he going to come back again? It... I'm sorry, come forward if summoned?

**Bashar:** But I give you this, and I will put it of course in what you would call your classical and colloquial vernacular, not meant in a negative way, but sit up and pay attention to this warning. Warning. Warning to summon the Observer is to summon a relationship and to summon an interaction. The Observer, if summoned, may see you in a different light than you see yourself and may call upon you to express the self it sees. If you do not feel up to the task of doing so, the Observer may never acknowledge your summons again. And if you summon it and accept that a task may be given, you may find in your own terms that it may be something you will really have to deal with that may not necessarily be easy for you, but it guaranteed will stretch you. If you are willing to do that. But we give you this buffer zone as a warning: do not summon it lightly. Mhm. Because you will in a sense need to be prepared either to really change, or to find that you will not necessarily be capable of communicating with it for quite some time thereafter, until such time as it has recognized you being the self it recognizes you as. Then it may reinitiate communication. If it initiates the communication, as it did this last time, no such task will be required. But if you summon it, because it is all about the idea of relationship, it will want to relate to you as it sees you from its point of view, which may require your personality to disassemble itself in ways that will not necessarily be comfortable for you. And that is not meant in a negative sense. So be prepared if this happens. This is the only disclaimer we will give. End of warning.

**Participant:** Okay. I don't think I'll call for a while.

**Bashar:** Um, but that is your choice. Yes.

**Participant:** But sitting there, there was the feeling of a uh, a knowing, a deep knowing from from somewhere. Um, what's interesting is some people had no problem speaking. Uh, I wasn't able to articulate anything that that evening. Um, oh, right. And it was only on the way home that I could actually formulate a question that I would have asked.

**Bashar:** All right. Is that because of the strength of the energy? Um, I know sometimes when we're interacting, because of the strength of your own energy in the reflection that it gave you of your own energy, it may have in a sense put you at a loss for words because you were so surprised at the strength of your own energy.

**Participant:** Oh, okay. Uh, because sometimes in the interactions with you, uh, someone else will ask a question and I'll say, and I'll be thinking, gee, if they just would ask another one in another line. But I also realize that when we are communicating with you, uh, sometimes our left brain is not connected to our right brain, that we're sort of uh, feeling it and not always able to articulate or go beyond our questions.

**Bashar:** Okay. Well, this is all about the idea of integration. So we give you more than enough opportunity to give yourself the opportunity to integrate in whatever way shape or form you believe represents a balance in the relationship. That's up to you. It's not up to us to force you. Um, any wizard stories? Any more wizard stories?

**Participant:** Wizard story?

**Bashar:** Yes. As we have to some degree indicated, this will begin in your new orbit. Okay. It will be one of the things in some sense that will be included in the new exercises for the discovery and self-realization that will take place within our future interactions, as you call them. Thus, great. We will include the idea of what you have euphemistically called "wizard story." Stories. But be prepared, they will be more than stories. Mhm. You may be called upon to be the characters in the stories and play them out very literally.

**Participant:** All right. All right. Thank you very much. Number three here. Good day, Bashar.

**Bashar:** Have you. Good day.

**Participant:** Thank you. I'm having a wonderful time.

**Bashar:** All you. I'm having a wonderful time. All right.

**Participant:** I this is my favorite time of year, Christmas. And um, um, I relate very much with Santa Claus as an elf because I make things for people's presents and I just feel very connected with Santa Claus and Mrs. Santa Claus. And I created like stories about little elfins and I make paintings of them. They look like little El Santa Clauses and stuff. So I'm... I kind of say I'm really glad you told that story.

**Bashar:** All right. Thank you for your synchronicity. Yeah. And there's a little Zeta Claus right over your shoulder. Somebody made that too. That comes through the chimney with a little wizard hat on. This was done by the channel. Ah. Great. So we believe it is what on your planet you call a joke.

**Participant:** I... I like who's coming through the chimney? Right. Yes. Take us up. Beam us up. So um, well, I have a... I just want to acknowledge the great Observer and thank him and send my love. I mean, thank it. I mean, I have felt its energy around me coming through on an aesthetic band. Very aesthetic. Loving. Very loving. Very powerful. Humongously compassionate.

**Bashar:** Humongously. Yes. Has divine level for me. It is in many ways an aspect of the essence of unconditional compassion. For it to be able to function as it does as the Oversoul of the Association, yes. Very. For only in that degree of allowance could so many different civilizations and beings interact in what you would call a smooth, ecstatic, and energetic way.

**Participant:** Well, I am really feeling the acceleration. All right. And I'm just acknowledging synchronicity at every moment and it happens real exciting. Antoinette and I moved. I moved in at Anet's house and so she's got all kinds of uh, beautiful things there to create a lot of magic with. Nice. So we're going to be making probably a lot of wizard hats.

**Bashar:** And all right. Is up to you as how you express your creativity.

**Participant:** So I that's... I just basically wanted to tell you what we're up to and thank you. Wish you all a, you know, Christ Consciousness wake up. Baby love for all. On Essani Shakana. Awareness to all of you as well. That's the word. All right. Shakana. Thank you. You and then you number two: do you know who you are?

**Bashar:** All right. Number one, good day.

***

### **Conversation 6: Sasquatch Dreams and St. Germain**

**Participant:** I had a pretty wild dream the other night, or actually last night, but it seemed really real. I haven't been remembering my dreams lately and this one was like really cool. But it um, it... there were there were these uh, Bigfoots. Only they don't like to be called Bigfoot. They're like, but they're not like Yeti, Abominable Snowmen. They're like, you know, brown-furred kind of... you know what they are? Sasquatch.

**Bashar:** Yeah. Sasquatch. That's the word.

**Participant:** They were like everywhere and they were intermingling with humans. But as humans have a tendency to destroy what they don't understand, they started...

**Bashar:** It is not a tendency, it is a teaching. Okay. But these guys, because there was a few of them that had like a small amount of being able to be interdimensional, and eventually the ones that stayed third-dimensional obviously here got all destroyed, most of them. And then the only ones that survived were basically the fourth-dimensional ones and the guy, you know, the ones that were able to go outside of human contact, kind of thing. Yes. And every once in a while they bleed through and that's why we perceive them. Yes. Is any of that true or is it stream of consciousness? But I had... I also had a distinct feeling that I was one of them somehow.

**Bashar:** You are connected on some level. Yes. The idea is that you are connected in the recognition of different lifetimes where you have interacted with these beings from time to time. And also in that they reflect to you symbolically the particular kind of process you are going through in attempting to define yourself as a fourth-dimensional being in terms of then what you will, quote-unquote, "leave behind" as a third-dimensional being. Although of course, the process of integration is leaving nothing behind, but accepting and incorporating all of it into yourself. But you understand what we mean by that. Mhm. So they act now as a reminder of the concept of tribal familiarity, to take you back to old and ancient understandings of groundedness and relationship to the nature of your world, so that you can get in touch with that nature in a natural way and express it through yourself in a natural way, so that you can aid and assist yourself through their reflection to you, their aid and assistance to you, in allowing the transformation to take place in a very solid, grounded, easy, effortless, natural way. You understand?

**Participant:** Mhm. Does that help you?

**Participant:** Yeah, it does. Why are they so hairy?

**Bashar:** In a sense, it was genetically the way they were created for differences in what you would call environmental realities in past times, so they could withstand certain shifts of temperature. Do you understand? Yes. Also, it is a reflection of their degree of sensitivity, in many similar ways to the idea of your Animal Kingdom, in that the hair follicles act like little antennas. They know how to understand that they are receiving etheric energy through these antennas, so they utilize it as an extra sense that many of you have forgotten how to have. You follow?

**Participant:** Mhm. Does that answer your question?

**Participant:** Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Number two. Hi, Bashar. And are you? Good day. Happy Solstice.

**Bashar:** All right. To you as well.

**Participant:** Um, I had a few questions.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant:** Um, what's St. Germain's relationship with the Association?

**Bashar:** Not direct in that sense. The idea is that it is a representation of one of the archetypal levels of your own Collective Consciousness on Earth and in the spirit realm. And the connection or relationship to the Association would simply be as part of the energy complex of consciousness through which the Association must, in a sense, colloquially put, must ask permission of to interact with your individuals in your reality, to make sure that we are not violating any trusts, not stepping on any toes, not interfering with any ideas you have for yourself in your own evolution. We always check in with the collective archetypal consciousness, the World Spirit of Your World, of which the concept of the energy of Germain is a part and forms an archetypal function with regard to overseeing certain regulatory energies that have to do with types of communication and types of self-realization. Does that make sense to you?

**Participant:** Yeah. It actually brings up more questions. So all right. Um, I was at the channeling the day before you did The Observer. Yes. And you said an entity would be coming, guys. And from that time until the Observer came, St. Germain was working a lot with me. All right. Who I have a relationship with, but he's not normally the main being. Yes. And even while the Observer was present, I also felt so much of what I would consider St. Germain's energy. Yes. It's all right. And so... and well, I'm wondering, you know, if you can shed some light on that. Because there's... what light do I need to shed? You have already said, in that sense, that you have made a connection to that level of energy in that you know it can work with the particular frequency that you are working with now and help reinforce that understanding within you. So you simply also decided that any new energy you would experience, especially one that would represent a type of large-scale energy, would be a good opportunity to refine the process, refine your senses, and invite that energy to continue to work with you so that you can open up and absorb as much information and knowledge and experience in any such interaction as you deem is necessary for your growth. Do you understand that?

**Participant:** Yeah. Actually, that's probably what I was feeling but I couldn't put my name on but uh, words to it was that the Observer's been to go through a doorway or filtering of St. Germain for me, maybe to make it understand a little more.

**Bashar:** Understand. That's how it works for you. Mhm. Okay. Again, it is all about the idea of relationship. So of course, the Observer will use any primary relationship as a conduit so as to not violate the relationships you have deemed are the best conduits for you to work with. Does that help you?

**Participant:** Yeah. I guess I'm just also learning about more of my relationship with St. Germain though, because of like I said, he's normally not the most present one.

**Bashar:** But of course, what you are fundamentally learning about is your primary relationship with yourself. Mhm. Thank you. Capish?

**Participant:** I had one other question. Um, I'm not quite sure how to phrase this right now, so please bear with me.

**Bashar:** I will bear with you if you wish.

**Participant:** In the last couple months since I've been coming here, it seems like a lot of the focus is on working with your beliefs, which is somewhat of a mental process that depends on how you go about it. Okay. Um, is there any heart-type of process that you work with where you could integrate the heart and the mind together?

**Bashar:** Well, of course, you can always approach this from your feeling center. Never, in talking about the idea of belief, just because they represent the blueprint level, do you have to approach it from that level? Because it is a three-fold process of belief, feeling, and action. You can approach it from any of the three. So the idea, of course, is that it is very easy to transform belief by looking, in a sense, at the idea from the feeling you get in any experience you have. So to feel more fully, to examine the experience from the feeling state, can also put you in touch with the belief that you would have to have that would generate that feeling. You can approach it from any direction of the three you wish. It's up to you. You understand this?

**Participant:** I understand what you just said, but you don't know how to go about... no, I don't think I asked my question correctly, but I'd have to give it a lot more thought to...

**Bashar:** I see. Now, I'm going to ask you a question. However, in your own words, in that you understand it, in a sense comprehended intellectually, and that you want to give more thought to it, why yourself do you not necessarily speak in the vernacular of feeling if that's what you want to have more of?

**Participant:** Well, actually, I think it's because I'm looking at it from a different perspective right now. So I was... okay, can I explain it? Give me a chance. Um, you know how in a lot of spiritual teachings here, it's taught for the mind to be the master of the heart? Who says that? No, I'm sorry. The other way. For the heart to be... for the mind to be the servant of the heart.

**Bashar:** Well, euphemistically, although nothing to be a servant of anything, but I understand what you mean. Okay. Um, I'm kind of approaching it from that angle where there's many times where I'm in my heart, okay, and my heart tells me things, but then it kind of moves, the energy moves into the mind and my mind starts judging it. So I was wondering if there was a technique to stay in that heart. Just a different approach.

**Bashar:** I was... what makes you think you're not in the heart when you judge yourself?

**Participant:** Okay. I haven't thought about that. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Okay. But you may be within the idea of your fear. Therefore, that is what results in the idea of the judgment that you experience in your mind. So the idea is to recognize that the judgment of the mind is coming from the fear that's in the heart. Does that help?

**Participant:** Perfect. Answers the question. Thank you. You. Good day.

***

### **Conversation 7: Interdimensional Travel, Intention, and Manifestation**

**Participant:** Um, I wanted to talk to you about this interdimensional vortex travel thing that's happening. This interdimensional vortex travel thing that's happening.

**Bashar:** Yes. Yes. Can you be more specific?

**Participant:** Well, I'd spoken to you a few weeks ago about when the interactions occur now. And I try very, very hard to focus my intention and stop it when that paralysis field comes on.

**Bashar:** Then it is not really the idea of having to try very hard. The idea actually is to relax into more of the self.

**Participant:** Well, they trying very hard is actually not a conscious effort, it just happens.

**Bashar:** All right. It's just you are saying that that appears to you to be the result rather than the idea of the mode you are using. Right? Except that you had said that um, possibly the Zetas were using this as an opportunity for me and had shifted the nature of the interactions in some senses.

**Participant:** Yes. Not so much that they necessarily need to use it as an opportunity for you, but that you are using it as an opportunity for you regardless of their intention. Okay.

**Participant:** Well, what has been happening recently is I have been able—which I'm surprised at myself—but I've actually been able to set an intent during that time when the paralysis field comes across. And what's been happening is I don't get what I intend at all. And for the first time, I'm having absolutely no recollection of what I'm getting. I get up out of bed just as these other parallel realities had occurred, and I go into the other room and I open the door expecting... there's the problem. Expecting...

**Bashar:** You cannot set intent with expectation. Whoa. You set intent simply as a guideline to open the door. You cannot expect that a particular thing will be on the other side of the door, otherwise you won't see what's there because your expectation will blind you. So that's why I have no recollection of what was there at all. So set your intention but remove the expectation. Uhhuh. You understand how to do this for yourself? Your intention is just the calling forth of an energy in general to intend the idea to be yourself in whatever way shape and form that needs to happen that represents the path of least resistance. That's why you need to remove the expectation, because you cannot contain within your mental consciousness all of the different ways that the revelation of yourself to yourself could possibly occur. So intend to be yourself, but you don't have to limit the intention down to the level of an expectation, because that's in a sense what expectation is: limited intention.

**Participant:** So when you're setting an intent, you're not really setting a clear intent for this particular reality to occur? This dimensional experience?

**Bashar:** Not in what you are doing here. Or no, it's just intending to be yourself and living that vibration more fully. And then intention is the idea of declaration of the self. Ah. Intend. So then you... you just hold that intention and then you get out knowing what you feel like, the real you, the natural you, who you are. All of you know this. All of you have this feeling, this vibration, that you know is the feeling of your true self. And if you bury it under many, many things that you've been taught to bury it under, sometimes it may seem difficult to find or to recognize, or you can't really believe when you find it that you can allow it to become dominant. Nevertheless, you will all generally find that you know it when you feel it, or you know it when you see it, or you know it when you hear it. You know who you are. You just have to believe that that's true, and then your reality will follow.

**Participant:** So this has, which I'm seeing now more clearly, this has always felt very important in terms of creating a certain intent and reality in this state, you know?

**Bashar:** Yes. Because all you have to do to manifest anything is simply be who you are, because you already are connected to everything. Thus, the manifestation is automatic. And that's why you don't need expectation, because that only functions as a limitation on what you're actually capable of manifesting by being yourself. Ah. Does that make sense to you?

**Participant:** Very clarifying for me. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Because the real you, in that sense, knows who it is, knows what it contains, knows what the experience needs to be that is the reflective experience you need at this moment for the personality structure to grow and for the soul to grow. So you don't have to necessarily tie down to dictating what you think that ought to be, right? Because you already instinctively know what it needs to be for you. Very important point within what you call that book we mention that you will discover when you read it in *Conversations with God*. Very important point regarding the idea of intention and manifestation. You will come across it in the appropriate chapter. Basics. It goes something like this: "However, when you say 'I', that is the acknowledgment of who you are. That's all that's necessary for the universe to acknowledge that you're about to manifest something. 'I'. That's it. Whatever the verb is that comes after it is the activation verb." So as the book points out, when you say "I want this," then the activation you are activating is wanting. Do you understand? "I want." All right. Says the universe: go ahead, want all you want to. And that's all that manifests is you wanting. The verb that follows immediately the "I"—the verb that follows immediately the "I"—is the activation agreement. Therefore, "I am" is what allows the manifestation to become present. And that's why prayer is always stated in the present: that you are already grateful because it already is. Not "I want." You are already grateful because it all already is and you already are. Not "I want." Otherwise, that's what you get. One thing. So "I" is the only declaration you need to initiate the universe's readiness to respond to what the activation verb is that follows the declaration of self, which is the same thing as intention. Does that make more sense to you?

**Participant:** It does. And I had wanted to ask you at some point why you had wanted to... and now perhaps you are at... yeah. Why uh... now?

**Bashar:** Understand, we do not say this so that you have to watch every little word. Obviously, there are people on your planet who you see that are great manifestors, and you may overhear them saying, "I want to do this, I want to do that." Understand, in that context, if you can see by their actions that they are obviously easily manifesting who they are in terms of abundance and creativity and what have you, obviously the use of the phrase "Oh, I want to do this and I want to do that" has no real charge behind it. But in many cases, when you hear someone say "I want," it is coming with a charge because they are coming from a place of need, neediness. "I want." And therefore, that's what manifests. But just idly saying, "Oh, I want to do this," as long as it is connected to the energy of "I am this," beyond the shadow of a doubt, that doesn't make a difference. In that context, you say "I want to do this." You understand the difference? This is why most prayer doesn't work.

**Participant:** Yes. But in a sense, it actually always does work. Right? You get exactly what you say. Right? It always works. But I understand the context in which you mean that.

**Bashar:** Yes. Because most people say "I want." All right. Prayer answered: go on wanting. Or you come out of that sense of "I want" and "I need," and and and... that's what, of course. You also need to pay attention to the idea that sometimes many people desire things that they also, in their hearts, know is really indirect contradiction to what it is that really, really, really is representative of who they are. And so you have to take that into consideration too. And it requires honesty in terms of what you're saying you are, to know that that's really true and not just giving it, as you say, lip service. Right? You understand?

**Participant:** Yes, I do.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Does it help?

**Participant:** Yes, immensely. Thank you. Good day.

**Bashar:** Good day.

***

### **Conversation 8: Dream of Ants and Stigmata**

**Participant:** Good evening. I would like to share a dream that I had on Monday.

**Bashar:** All right. The dream on the day of the Moon.

**Participant:** I found myself in this house in one of the rooms with some other people, and there were plants all over the room. Plants. Plants. Yes. There was one specific plant. It was very green, hanging from the ceiling. And when I looked up at it, it was full of ants. Ants. It was ants. Ants. Like a billion ants. A billion? Yeah. So billions and billions. I kept looking at it. Yes. And the leaves were turning pink. Yes. So I got the presence of mine to go into the bathroom, fill the tub of water. I took the plant and threw it in there and turned the shower on. Yes. What's the significance? What was it trying to tell me?

**Bashar:** Yes. I see. What was your feeling about the ants being in the plants?

**Participant:** They weren't supposed to be there.

**Bashar:** They weren't? Are you sure? I don't know. Oh, come on now. Guess. You do. Were they supposed to be there or not?

**Participant:** No.

**Bashar:** All right. Now, what was the idea behind throwing this in the water?

**Participant:** To get the ants off the plants.

**Bashar:** I see. What do the ants represent to you? What do they symbolize to you?

**Participant:** Parasites.

**Bashar:** I see. All right. They will from time to time deign to function as that symbol for you humans. It's not what they are, but they will sometimes agree to function as that symbol for you humans. Now, if these things represent to you all sorts of little things that you believe bother you, pester you in your belief system, the idea is that this dream symbolizes that the only way really that you're going to deal with this is to really allow yourself to dive into more understanding of your emotional heart energy. The idea of the green and the pink is representative of a transition in heart energy. And the idea of going into the water, putting it in the water, is representative of being willing to go deeper into your emotional essence of self in order to alleviate what you believe doesn't belong there. But they were showing you that you need to make this transition. A symbol that might work well for you. And again, remember, it's only a symbol. Is that substance you call Watermelon Tourmaline? What you typically call Watermelon Tourmaline, because it is literally green and pink in one crystal. MH. By reflecting on this, in a sense, by meditating on this and getting in touch with the transitions going on in your heart, getting in touch with your belief systems—the ones that you believe don't belong within you, that are inappropriate within you, that will not allow you to flourish and grow the way—the way to allow yourself to alleviate this is to dive more deeply into the feelings you have about things and to understand that any meaning that anything may contain or may seem to contain at first glance is a meaning you have been taught to put to it. It doesn't have that meaning by itself. When you start to investigate and explore this in this way, you will also begin to see the ants in a different light, and they can start to reflect and represent many different kinds of things to you in a more positive way. You understand? Yeah. You will learn how to communicate with all of those components you have fragmented yourself into. Therefore, instead of them being little bitty fragments of one large hive mentality, you will start to function more from the holism, the holistic point of view, by integrating all of those fragments you have splintered yourself into in the past. Does this make some sense?

**Participant:** Yes. Yes. Does that help you?

**Participant:** Yes. Could I ask another question?

**Bashar:** I suppose you could, since you just asked another one. Right?

**Participant:** Two years ago, yes, on my return from Brazil, yes, I manifested stigmata in both my hands and feet.

**Bashar:** Oh. All right. What was the significance?

**Participant:** What do you mean, what is the significance? I don't know. Why did I do it?

**Bashar:** Why do you think you did that?

**Participant:** I don't have this... like this idea. You have no idea at all? Fascinating. I ask you this: how do you feel about yourself by experiencing that manifestation? How do you view yourself? How... what do you think of yourself by having created that particular manifestation?

**Participant:** I've always felt good about myself. Yes. In general, on one level. Yeah.

**Bashar:** All right. And so what's the significance of this idea? How do I... I'll ask you this: how do you express in your physical reality that you feel so good about yourself? How do you express it in life? What kind of things do you do in the world?

**Participant:** I enjoy sharing.

**Bashar:** Of what?

**Participant:** In what way? Of myself. Of everything that I have and I do and I share.

**Bashar:** Is there some way that you can in your imagination expand this sharing? Is there some way you would like to expand the sharing? Is there something you could be doing that is far more exciting than the way you're going about doing things now? Or are you at the absolute pinnacle of your passion and joy?

**Participant:** No, I wouldn't say I'm the pinnacle of it.

**Bashar:** Oh. All right. Then what else could you be doing that would be, in your terms, a bigger representation of expressing your joy? Um, is there a bigger way in which you could go about doing what you love to do? A grander expression?

**Participant:** Because like I said, I share. I... yes. But you're not answering the question.

**Bashar:** I don't know. I'm confused in that area.

**Participant:** Confused? Yeah.

**Bashar:** I see. Is there something you would like to do that you haven't yet done that would be, to you, more exciting than what you're doing now? Where do you think you're going now? Where do you think you're going? Where would you ultimately like to be?

**Participant:** I am doing what I enjoy doing and, like I said, that is sharing, teaching.

**Bashar:** Okay. So you're doing it in all the ways that you believe it's possible for you to do it for me to do? And there's no bigger way that you think it can be done by you?

**Participant:** There might be a bigger way, but I don't see it just yet.

**Bashar:** Oh. All right. It hasn't uh, been clear to me yet. Hasn't been clear to you? I see. All right. May I ask another question?

**Participant:** Thank you. I will. What are your thoughts on the issue of forgiveness?

**Participant:** I do that very easily.

**Bashar:** Do you mean forgiveness for others or for yourself or both?

**Participant:** For myself and for others.

**Bashar:** Oh. All right. You forgive easily? Yeah. All right. The stigmata, for some individuals—not all, for some individuals—is simply a recognition of their reflection, the idea of the World Spirit, what you might call euphemistically the Christ Consciousness. It is simply a statement, a declaration, that you know consciously, intentionally know that you are an expression of the World Spirit, one unique facet of the multi-dimensional crystal of the collective consciousness of your planet, doing what it is it knows it needs to do to be who it knows it is. Sometimes individuals on your planet will simply receive or give themselves a marker that simply lets them know they have crossed a certain threshold of critical mass to allow them to know that they are being, in a sense, who they need to be in that sense. You understand?

**Participant:** Yeah. That's really the significance of it. Does that help you?

**Participant:** Yes, it does. You and then you number two: do you know who you are?

**Bashar:** All right. Number one.

***

### **Conversation 9: Hale-Bopp Comet and Closing Remarks**

**Participant:** On this subject with Hale-Bopp, the window, yes. When it arrives uh, where we can all see it, how many... not all of you will see it, unless you mean the comet itself. No, that's my question. What percentage of us will see it?

**Bashar:** Unknown. Very, very small percentage. Unknown. There'll be some percentage that will see it, and they'll be horrified by it. Other persons, other people will see it and be turned on by it. Yeah. Help their... their transition.

**Participant:** All right. Well, put... and so I'm... I'm just... am I supposed to do something about this? I'm trying to figure out what's going to happen.

**Bashar:** Well, good luck. And you're not going to help me at all. Huh? We don't know. Okay. It's up to you to determine. All of you understand, we don't know everything, especially with regard to the idea of certain ideas of exactly how many of you will experience a certain manifestation of transition. We don't know that. The ball's in your court, as you say. It's firmly in your hand. It's your reality. It's your world. It's up to you to determine. And many times, you will not determine it until exactly the moment in which you determine it. So right now, this idea, this energy, doesn't have any particular percentage of momentum behind it that lets us believe that a particular crystallization or manifestation is more likely than another. In other words, it's in great flux right now. Therefore, we don't know. But we're always excited to find out what your people do. We're always excited to see exactly where you decide you are with it and how you decide to create your symbols of reflectivity. Then it will teach us a lot about you and teach us a lot about ourselves, for in that sense, we have come from you. So right now, we are very excited. Very excited by the fact that we don't know. You see, the unknown is our friend. And we do not, in a sense, attempt to pin it down to something less than it is. When the unknown occurs to us, when it presents itself to us as the unknown, we allow it to be the unknown. For only in the unknown will we discover our true selves. So if it were clearer to us, we would tell you. At this time, we find it is important that it remains unknown.

**Participant:** Okay. What date is it? Will it be visible? I wonder.

**Bashar:** I will simply give you what your scientists already know this: the closest approximate approach... what? Yeah. To your planet of the comet will be no accident at all: April Fool's Day. That should tell you a lot about the idea of the chimeric and chameleon-like ability of what's going on here.

**Participant:** Well, in January, it's supposed to come from around the Sun where we can start seeing it again because it's behind the sun now.

**Bashar:** I already said the closest approach of the comet, the most visible that the comet will be, will be April 1st in your upcoming new year of 1997. Thus, that represents something important. In other words, in that it is the closest approach, than anything at all connected to it, no matter what form it is in or not in, will also be representative on that date of being the most symbolically significant. Therefore, in the idea in your culture of April Fool's Day being that you don't exactly always know exactly what's going on, that should tell you something about the very nature of this so-called object that really isn't there. Mhm. So if you want any clue at all, that's your best clue. You've set it up for yourselves to be able to go in any direction of interpretation because that's exactly what you do. That's exactly what you honor in the Festival of All Fools' Day.

**Participant:** Well, I'm going to get out of the stock market around January 18th, something like that.

**Bashar:** That's up to you. It depends exactly on what you decide to put stock in. No comment is coming from us.

**Participant:** Thank you. Thank you.

**Bashar:** At this timing, we will once again express our deep appreciation in allowing these transmissions to occur in the way that they have. We express our deep appreciation in your allowance for these transmissions upcoming in the way that they will occur. For we are now crossing a threshold together, and none of us will be who we will be when we meet next for the first time as who we are then. Read the book if you want to. Our unconditional love to you all. And by all means, remember: the spirit of any season is with you.

