---
heading: Part 2 of Achieving Perfect Health
title: "The Founders"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1996-09-21
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 9
tags: ['Founders']
---



### The Founders and The Association of Worlds

**Questioner:** Are the founders can they be referred to as the same as the Annunaki?

**Bashar:** No, they are older than that.

**Questioner:** By how long?

**Bashar:** Uncountable.

**Questioner:** So then they would be the founders of the Annunaki?

**Bashar:** In a manner of speaking, though you are thinking too linearly. Linearly okay.

**Questioner:** The Association of Worlds, what about represent each body out there, each civilization?

**Bashar:** Well not each civilization, no. There are many, many, many, many, many, many civilizations that have no connection to the Association of Worlds that we are connected to, and there are other Associations of Worlds.

**Questioner:** How do you choose sides?

**Bashar:** We do not. It is automatic according to vibration and attraction.

**Questioner:** All right, let's bring it a little bit closer. The Association of Worlds that's great. What I... I'm about ready to come up and sit on with you and talk about it. No. I guess what is your question?

**Bashar:** Well, to clarify things is in the living of the now, it makes it of no consequence whether you as Associate of Worlds or anyone pays us a visit because it's all set. The timeline has been defined in some senses, but there is still randomness as well. Remember it is not this or that, it is this and that. Both sides of any polarity coexist. Nothing is set in stone, and yet there are things that have been laid out. Yet there is randomness within the things that have been laid out. There is chaos and order simultaneously, and one gives birth to the other. It is a continuous loop.

So while there are certainly intentional lines that may have a large degree of momentum behind them and have built up in a way that may allow manifestation to be a relative certainty, there are always surprises in creation for there are always new combinations of how the infinite can view itself. That's why it's called the infinite. Were everything absolutely set, it would be finite and therefore everything would collapse under its own weight. It needs to be infinite in order for anything to happen, but because it is infinite, anything can happen.

You have innate wisdom on your planet I believe that goes something like "the best laid plans," or perhaps in another fashion, just to be a little bit colloquial about this in this translation, in your language: if you want to make God laugh, make a plan.

**Questioner:** Oh I agree.

**Bashar:** So there are plans yes, and many of them may play out. We would never guarantee that they will, because not only are we in many ways unpredictable, but believe me that appellation applies to your planet as well.

**Questioner:** All right then, when the Eisenhower Administration was here, the representation of the Grays spoke within. And if I'm not mistaken and correct me if I'm wrong, the plans also had a part in that in some senses remotely, yes.

**Bashar:** But not directly in that particular interaction, no. Only in the offering of a choice, yes. Yes, only in the offering of a way your planet could choose to go.

**Questioner:** Well I don't mean everybody sitting down at the table at the same time. I mean coming and going and trying to show us that you had choices.

**Bashar:** Yes. In a sense this took place in a sense yes, and it was the hydrogen bomb that would have turned us all into dust and gave way for the dolphin.

**Questioner:** That is one probable reality not necessarily in your timeline exactly, but it is one probable reality and has happened in other probable Earth realities.

**Bashar:** Yet that would have been the catalyst. Well, the burning of the atmosphere. Once the atmosphere goes, everything goes. And so you have learned your lesson and gone beyond the need to choose that kind of self-annihilation, and that is one of the reasons why many of these communications can now occur, because you yourselves made the choice.

**Questioner:** Okay. And you don't interfere with other patterns really. Earth has a path and that's it.

**Bashar:** Well again, there are a multitude of probable realities. If you want to call all of those probable realities the path, you can.

**Questioner:** Yes. What about it? It to me it's well, you can't tell us how to live our life.

**Bashar:** I would never want to do so. But we are first to tell you how we're going to, and if you don't like it, that's too bad. That's the way you have structured your society and why you have the kind of governmental structure that you do.

**Questioner:** Yeah, so how do you work with a government like that?

**Bashar:** We don't. All right, we do not work with your government. I'll leave out the word "we" to be more defining.

**Questioner:** How you referring to yourself, the Association of Worlds? What about us in the collective?

**Bashar:** Different levels to in a sense inspire individuals to move in the directions that would be more representative of their own best highest joy. If they choose to do that, they give us something to work with. If they don't, then we have nothing to work with. We are only working with the Earth vibration that has chosen and is choosing to move in the direction that is somewhat comparable to our own vibration. We do not work with the Earths that do not.

Now if you are referring to the idea of how do you work with a government like that, since you are the government, you have to make that determination. You have to change yourselves according to what you prefer, and then your structures will change accordingly. Since your outer is only a reflection of the inner compartmentalize yourself inwardly, and of course it is natural that you would compartmentalize your government structure outwardly, box away your fears, and of course it is natural that you would create hidden agendas and secret organizations to hide things from you. One is only a reflection of the other. But we do not work with such organizations in that way.

You must remember also that there are many different kinds of interactions that the Association of Worlds has with many of you that have nothing at all to do with your physical reality. We are all in high levels of communication in what you call your dream states. But it is up to you to decide what of those conversations will filter down into your physical reality and what will take effect and what will become aligned with many of the ideas that we have all discussed in the dream reality that are more representative of your harmony and your joy. It's up to you. It's your planet. You have to decide what will take effect, what will crystallize.

**Questioner:** In cooperation with Sirius in the Triad?

**Bashar:** Well, Earth, Sirius, and many others.

**Questioner:** All right, well the present Triad, the most forward is that the one?

**Bashar:** There are many. We will not be more definitive at this time than that because we feel it would be a step backwards in terms of rigidly defining what is going on. You are looking for hierarchy in a sense where none exists.

**Questioner:** No, I was going to take it one step further.

**Bashar:** We have already taken it one step further.

**Questioner:** No, you have. I have. Yeah, that is what we mean. When I say "we," I did not necessarily mean you. I am talking about all of us on this side.

**Questioner:** I see. Oh, seems to me this Bernard Stark falls in there somewhere, doesn't that?

**Bashar:** It does.

**Questioner:** After Sirius leaves?

**Bashar:** No, no, no. You are being too linear again.

**Questioner:** Well, that's the only way I know how.

**Bashar:** No, it's not.

**Questioner:** That's what you keep telling me.

**Bashar:** Yes, because I know it to be true. You need to open in a different direction in a more holographic direction to understand how to interpret this in a holographic way instead of a linear one.

**Questioner:** Well okay, the bottom line of where I was going with this is yes, in relationship to governments, it's almost as if it's going to work out like with the Indian nations before. The only promise the government ever kept was they will take the Indian land.

**Bashar:** And so what is your purpose in explaining it in this way? What are you referring to?

**Questioner:** Things of the nature like... what are you afraid of?

**Bashar:** Oh, I'm not afraid of anything.

**Questioner:** What are you afraid of?

**Bashar:** I don't feel at this time as though I'm afraid of anything.

**Questioner:** Then where is this conversation coming from?

**Bashar:** What's around the corner is what I'm trying to see.

**Questioner:** And what are you referring to in using the analogy of your Native American situation? What kind of an analogy are you drawing with that?

**Bashar:** But that's where we're headed.

**Questioner:** Meaning how to prevent that?

**Bashar:** Prevent what?

**Questioner:** The colonization of us.

**Bashar:** By whom?

**Questioner:** Ourselves.

**Bashar:** Then that is the voice of fear. Don't you understand that?

**Questioner:** Okay, okay yeah, all right. Yeah.

**Bashar:** It is your very definition that is creating the idea of the compartmentalization concept.

**Questioner:** Correct.

**Bashar:** Well then, lighten up.

**Questioner:** Okay, I'll sit down and shut up.

**Bashar:** You do not have to do that. Thank you, but I love you.

**Questioner:** Our unconditional love to you as well.

**Bashar:** The point really is just to give you the real bottom line from our perspective: it is not really how much nor how unconditionally we love you, but that you learn to love yourselves unconditionally. That's what will make all the difference in your world.

It is not a matter of prevention of a reality that contains those things. It is not a matter of holding something off. It is a matter simply of it not being a part of the reality at all. The things that you believe you simply do by second nature. You don't have to think about what is not happening or what you don't want to happen based on what you then choose to believe. Whatever it is you believe is what will determine what will happen.



### Question 5: Following Joy and a Loved One's Transition

**Questioner:** I would like to know if my husband who crossed over a few years ago isn't over what the street, the other side.

**Bashar:** Which other side? Another dimension? Oh, all right. You are talking about the idea of physiological transition, yes.

**Questioner:** All right. And I would love to know that he's enjoying himself.

**Bashar:** Then know it. What makes you doubt?

**Questioner:** No doubt. I guess I would like to know details if possible.

**Bashar:** Have you not had communication already?

**Questioner:** Some.

**Bashar:** Well then what have you had in your communication?

**Questioner:** More sexual than the mental.

**Bashar:** Is that not enjoyable?

**Questioner:** Very enjoyable.

**Bashar:** Then I would say he is sending energy that lets you know he is enjoying himself.

**Questioner:** That does make sense, yes it does.

**Bashar:** It may translate in your physical reality to some degree sexually. May not necessarily be experienced exactly that way from the spiritual side, but nevertheless the communication of that energy from one side to another can be felt that way in your reality from time to time. Nevertheless, obviously the message is very clear. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. Now I do. What is the full resonance name?

**Bashar:** Kathy Lewis. One moment. One moment. One moment.

Approximate location on your planet at the time of physical death: Los Angeles, California. Approximate physical age in your terms of time at the time of physical death: 75. Approximate causation as you understand it: a physiological death. Stopped breathing, heart...

**Questioner:** All right. One moment. One moment. One moment. One moment. One moment. One moment.

**Bashar:** The individual as we sense as best as we can scan from our dimension through your dimension to that dimension, in some senses though not necessarily all the time, maybe not even now, but in the beginning or at least for a while, functioned in the spirit world as a type of ferryman, ferryboat captain, in the sense of helping others across. Do you understand this?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** From time to time, in order to allow others who are recently de-physicalized to be more at home, and depending upon the belief systems of those individuals, this individual you have referred to as Cappy would appear in a variety of disguises to help them across, appear in ways that would allow them to become comfortable and familiar with the idea of crossing. His favorite one time was actually showing up literally in a big yellow cab and saying, "Get in, I'm giving you a lift," to a recently departed individual. This was one of his favorites.

You may find therefore that when it is time for you to meet again, he may use this one. The idea really is that the joy of this individual in his new state comes from the realization that he has the ability and can choose to show others the delight that can exist in that level in that dimension, and to help them get there is of great delight to him. You understand?

**Questioner:** Oh yes, oh how lovely.

**Bashar:** This is what we are receiving at this time. Whether literal or by analogy, this is the symbology we have been asked to deliver.

**Questioner:** Oh, I thank you so much.

**Bashar:** I had nothing to do with it. You may thank him.

**Questioner:** I thank you, Cappy. I love you, Bashar. Thank you.

**Bashar:** I love you as well. The final answer from the other side was simply this...

**Questioner:** We only deliver the message as it was given to us. We do not censor or edit it.

**Bashar:** But do you correct spelling sometimes?

**Questioner:** Depending upon what is available in the channel's vocabulary, we can draw upon that from time to time.


### Question 6: Ozone, Negative Ions, and Healing

**Questioner:** Yeah, just to touch on your opening prologue, you mentioned oxygenation and so on, and I remembered some people believe it's very useful to have what's called a little ozone generator, a little device.

**Bashar:** From time to time that may be of assistance to certain individuals in certain situations. It isn't always necessary, and in most cases it would be perhaps most beneficial when already in a crisis situation. You understand? Yes.

Otherwise, there are actually circumstances when over-ozonation can actually accelerate the burnout of the system. So done with moderation, it is usually beneficial to most individuals. But most individuals don't even really need that much of it. The idea really of simply supplying the atmosphere around you with the same concentration of ozone as you would find after what you would call one of your thunderstorms will actually be more naturally beneficial for most individuals. So now and then if you had one of these turned on for like 15 minutes a day or something, that can be of some assistance to most individuals sufficiently.

**Questioner:** What about negative ion generator?

**Bashar:** That can also be to some degree beneficial for many individuals, especially within the idea of your polluted atmosphere. Yes, yes.

**Questioner:** Okay, main thing I wanted to talk to is also a health and healing related question.

**Bashar:** All right.

**Questioner:** I have recently been reminded of some Reiki healing techniques. I took a one and two initiation about 10 or 11 years ago, and it's recently resurfaced and I am very interested in resuming that.

**Bashar:** Then you go right ahead.

**Questioner:** I may very well like to very well do that.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right. I wanted to ask you, I've read some about different types of healing over the years. Lawrence LeShan has a book "The Medium, the Mystic, and the Physicist" in which he discusses energy and non-energy transfer types of healing.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** And I wanted to know what you might comment on that, since I may be going into Reiki which is an energy healing type.

**Bashar:** If it is indicative of your joy, it sounds like a good idea to us. If it is not indicative of your joy, sounds like a terrible idea.

**Questioner:** I agree absolutely.

**Bashar:** The healing I had also had a healing dream a week or two ago. In the dream of course there was all the other symbology and stuff and so on, but I want to focus on the healing experience toward the end of it. The person, the subject who appeared to need healing, my approach was to just spread out my arms and generate a huge field of love.

**Bashar:** That is really ultimately no matter what technique a healer uses, what a healer actually winds up doing. Yes, it is healing: creating the atmosphere and the environment that supports the other that allows them to accept that vibration, match the frequency, and heal themselves.

**Questioner:** Oh, we are so in tune, yes. Perfect. That is really what energy healing is all about. In fact, that is actually what any kind of healing is all about, even physiological in nature.

**Bashar:** Sometimes I wonder why I ask you questions sometimes.

**Questioner:** We wonder too. After all, you do not necessarily need to ask a question. You know you can simply make a statement in many ways. And we have said this many times: sometimes it is actually more possible for us to deliver more information to you when you come across with a statement than it is when you deliver a "four score and seven years ago, our four fathers and your four mothers and their kids and brothers and comes..."

All right. The eight of them said, "Hey, this looks like a great place. Yeah, let's move in." All right, and so they did. And so here you are.

**Questioner:** Yes, and it's all turning out quite interesting. Yes, it is. Since we're not going to fry ourselves anymore, at least not collectively.

**Bashar:** At least not in this timeline. Maybe individually here and there, but not collectively.

**Questioner:** Yes, that would be a real big PR.

**Bashar:** Okay. In the Reiki energy healing, from what I've heard described, practitioners say their hands are very much guided intuitively as to where to put the energy. I would assume that the energy is transmitted or adjusted or calibrated whatever by the inner beings of both.

**Questioner:** You would assume correctly.

**Bashar:** And the perfect type and so on of energy.

**Questioner:** Again without expectation of what that might mean to the mind, yes absolutely.

**Bashar:** Well, in that healing dream that I had, there was one—the second another person, a small animal came up to be healed, and a man nearby was about to tell me what she needed healing for, and I said it does not matter. And I don't believe it really matters at all what is being healed. That one is willing to accept an energy and one is willing to help transmit it. Fundamental level this is so, since everything is generated from the same initial cause. So there is no real need to try to figure it out too much as to what you're doing as long as you are...

**Bashar:** But again, it will in different circumstances depend upon the belief systems of the individuals who are participating. And if they feel that it is necessary to delve into it that way, then it may be indicative of the best belief system that will actually allow them to co-create a healing to do so. So if they feel like focusing on an actual elimination, if that is really representative of the way that their strongest belief needs them to go about it in order for something to be accomplished, you shouldn't fight your natural strongest belief. If you can find a way to use it to your advantage.

**Questioner:** I forgot what I was going to... Oh, the symbols. The Reiki symbols. They have the symbols that are primarily drawn from Japanese writing, Chinese characters. What role do those really play? Is it more that you know what the symbol does?

**Bashar:** The practitioner, they are like vibrational codes. So the actual movement of drawing the symbol in the air or so on does something. It is in a sense an invocation, what you might in ancient times have called an "Abracadabra." If used correctly, in many of the ancient languages you will find that inscribing symbols really sets up certain vibrational formulas or equations that does help amplify and or even sometimes generate an appropriate atmosphere, so state of being. So likewise, from other languages perhaps numerals could be used, or Hebrew character. It all comes out of the same understanding. If it hasn't really been altered too much, it will usually create a similar effect.

**Questioner:** So would you say that it would be more appropriate to use like an ancient language such as Sanskrit?

**Bashar:** In some senses yes, but it again will require that the individual finds an affinity for that. For if they find more affinity to do that with a modern language, then it is their belief system of that affinity which will allow it to work. Because they will still be drawing from the same source of all knowledge and simply utilizing whatever symbols allow them to key into the vibrations, regardless of whether the symbols are accurately representative of them or not. And as they may need them to become, if they do more accurately representative, they will find themselves being attracted to other symbols that are.

**Questioner:** And I do have an affinity for the Japanese culture very much so. It certainly makes sense.

**Bashar:** In I wanted to touch on the time of Christ. He of course did many healings and so on. He did he specifically use energy type healings or is it because of the manifestation of his consciousness and presence that caused the healings?

**Bashar:** With you in some senses both. From time to time depending upon circumstances, whatever again was required especially in that sense. What you are referring to and those types of beings in general will use whatever is at hand. But it all is understood to come down to your belief, the healer's belief, and or specifically the belief of the one being healed. That is what the line means: "Your faith has healed you." Your faith has healed you. Not the idea that you believe specifically in a particular dogma, just literally fundamentally, your faith, your faith has healed you. Your belief in accepting healing. Yes, literally, no more complicated than that. Not meant to be taken in any other way shape or form than that.

**Questioner:** Okay. Well, how would that apply to what was it in the one of the Christ stories where a man said, "Come to my home and heal this person," and so he said he didn't need to go. Yeah, "Your faith has healed him." The overall environment was connected enough so that it enacted as one event, and everyone connected to that one event simply shifted their vibrational frequency all at once.

**Bashar:** Okay. Now as a Reiki practitioner or any sort of healing practitioner, one of the concerns of course would be to not take away their lesson so to speak. Of course, and so if you always make that stipulation, then you will know that whatever happens happens for the best of all concerned.

**Questioner:** Okay. However it works out, however they're choosing. If they're choosing to postpone an outward lesson and undo certain symptoms, that will happen in a sense.

**Bashar:** Although you can gauge to some degree some sense of whether or not that would be likely based on your understanding of yourself and thus consequently the likelihood of them having found you to begin with. If they really didn't want to be healed, it might be likely if you have a good understanding of your ability to deal with this that they might have found someone else had they not wanted to experience a self-healing. 


