---
title: "Breaking Change: Displacement and Cohesion Gravity"
date: 2025-12-30
description: "Displacement and Cohesion Gravity to replace naterial, orbital, and fine gravity"
image: "/photos/objects/gauge.jpg"
c: "darkgreen"
showdate: true
# draft: true
icon: Juan
sitemap:
  priority: 0.7
writer:
  name: Juan
  url: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jundalisay/
---




Today we replace our previous versions of Cartesian Gravity and simplify them to 2 major kinds:

1. Displacement from the 1st Rule of Motion
2. Cohesion from the 2nd Rule of Motion

This came when we looked into the non-gravitational acceleration (NGA) of Comet 3I/Atlas.

That NGA was thought to come from sublimation.

The big problem is that Oumumua had no sublimation. 

Instead, all NGA happens at the perihelion. This means the mechanism is the space particle density from the sun. 

This makes it part of "orbital gravity", from the space particles that wrap around the sun. 

"Orbital gravity" is related to "Fine Gravity" that causes surface tensions and the Dzhanibekov Effect i.e. the NGA comes from the comet tumblng just as Dzhanibekov Effect, makes things tumble.


## The Casimir Effect Key

We then looked into Casimir Effect by chance to see how "Fine Gravity" creates it. 

Gold-Gold reacts differently from Gold-Silica because of the difference of a straight channel versus a non-straight channel. 

And so we realized that both Orbital and Fine Gravity can be united. Prior to this, we thought that fine gravity was just from random flows. We could not connect it to orbital gravity which is a circular flow. 

So the Casimir Effect allowed us to connect Orbital and Fine gravities.

We called this as cohesion gravity as the exact opposite of displacement gravity.

This reduced gravity into 2 to match the inertial and gravitational mass of the scammer Einstein. 

But orbital is still a bit different from fine gravity. 

So we split cohesion and displacement gravity into 3, just as we split atherspace into 3 as micro, ordinary, and macro. 

This gives us 6 gravties:


Material Superphysics | Physics
--- | ---
Micro Displacement Gravity | Newtonian Gravity, Inverse Square Law
Displacement Gravity | Dark Matter
Macro Displacement Gravity | Inter-galactic space (Cosmic Web), Baryonic Acoustic Oscillations
Micro Cohesion Gravity | Van der Waals Force, Surface Tension, Dzhanibekov Effect, Gravitational Lensing, Comet Anti-Tails, Comet Non-Gravitational Acceleration
Cohesion Gravity | Orbits, Galaxy Arms
Macro Cohesion Gravity | Intra-galactic space (Galaxy Clusters)

For brevity, we shall call them:
- Micro D Gravity, D Gravity, Macro D Gravity
- Micro C Gravity, C Gravity, Macro C Gravity

We were planning to build up Fine Gravity based on Galileo's explanation of void causing gauge block wringing. But now we will use the word "Micro C Gravity" instead. Physics calls this *quantum vacuum zero point energy*.


We will slowly overhaul our content and videos to have these new words. This will lead to broken links and incoherence with the old content.

