---
title: "Breaking Change: Heat and Light Come from the Aetherspace"
image: "/photos/physics/atom.jpg"
date: 2026-06-08
description: ""
showdate: true
draft: true
icon: Juan
sitemap:
  priority: 0.8
writer:
  name: Juan
  link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jundalisay/
---



The biggest mystery in Material Superphysics isn't gravity, but **atomic space**. 

According to Bob Lazar, this is what the Grays tap to create Gravity A waves. 

This relies on frequency change. For a few years, we didn't know exactly how this was done as very little is written by Physics on atomic space. They instead write about quarks and mesons, which we call the micro-aetherspace which is a different animal. 

So we had to figure out atomic space and Gravity A waves by ourselves. 

We began with the E=mc^2 of the scammer Einstein. 

From this we learned of the mass defect which is easily explained by the difference in the spin speeds of the aether and aetherspace. 
- The more the difference, the more the mass. 

Therefore, the key to antigravity is to reduce the difference without converting the aetherspace into the aether.

The breakthrough was the video of the humanoid UAP, which we assume to be a Yahyel, released by the Department of War.

{{< youtube subj1pG11KE >}}


It shows the Yahyel being enclosed by Gravity A waves which we assume to come from an handheld antigravity device bigger than the Buga Sphere. 

This proves that the dynamic aetherspace:
- is fluid just like the interaetherspace (molecular bonds) 
- wraps around static aetherspace

The Sassani call this an electro-aetheric field. 

From the mass defect, we realized that the heat and light from nuclear binding comes from the aetherspace and not from electrons. 

This means that the light emission from LEDs really comes from the semiconductor aetherspace and not the electrons that jump the band gap. 
- The sudden spin change of electrons from resistance transfers to the aetherspace of the receiving semiconductor that triggers it to emit light. 
- This is why the aetherspace of gallium nitride is essential to blue LEDs just as red LEDs use Aluminum Indium Gallium Phosphide


So we will have to overhaul a lot of things about the Radiant and Material Layers!

