---
title: "Breaking Change: Renaming MSQ Particles"
image: "/graphics/physics/msq.svg"
date: 2026-04-03
description: "We rename MSQ particles"
showdate: true
icon: Juan
sitemap:
  priority: 0.8
writer:
  name: Juan
  link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jundalisay/
---



We named our particles based on the MSQ model to avoid arbitrary names like boson named after Bose, fermion named after Fermi, or quarks taken from a silly novel.

This leads to mos1, mos2, etc.

{{< i s="/graphics/physics/msq.svg" a="MSQ" >}}

But such names were difficult to pronounce and created inconsistencies in different languages. For example, Gmail is pronounce jee-meyl in English, but Gah-mel in Vietnamese, the difference is from the different pronunciation of "G" in different languages. 

So this means number names aren't good and we need unique names that are logical and systemic. 

We tried long unique names such as:
- light particles for photons or mor1
- virtual space particles for gravitons or the 2nd Element or mos2

But people complained that virtual space particles sounds weird. 

This is because shallow people think that space is empty and are not particles in themselves since they cannot be felt tactually or seen visually. 

And so we change the names again to absorb this fact. 

We rename media particles as media:

Common name | Short name
--- | ---
Existence space | exmed (Existence medium)
Identity space | imed (Identity medium)
Perception space | permed (Perception medium)
Timespan | timed (Time medium)
Macroaetherspace | masmed (Marco Aetherspace medium)
Aetherspace | asmed (Aetherspace medium)
Spacespan | spamed (Space medium)
Light Waves | limed (Light medium)
Spacespan | spamed (Space medium)

So virtual space particles become space medium (or space media for the multiverse)

Media have wave dynamics like frequency and are not discrete, whereas Particles have particle dynamics like spin.


Common name | Short name
--- | ---
Monads | apar (Pure Aether particles that spin)
Space vortices | spapar (Space particles that spin)
Photons | lipar (Light particles that spin)
Electrons | clipar (Crude Light particles that spin)
Neutrinos | copar (Convertible particles that spin)
Quarks | mapar (Material particles that spin)
