---
title: "Content Alignment for 2026"
image: "/photos/stuff/cult.jpg"
date: 2026-05-15
description: "We go more mainstream and add more practical works and remove inferior translations, cult content"
showdate: true
icon: Juan
sitemap:
  priority: 0.8
writer:
  name: Juan
  link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jundalisay/
---




The improvement in AI for translations has allowed us to get better translations for works that don't have an English translation. This includes Latin text from European writers like Leibniz and ancient Chinese texts. 

We realize that the non-AI content translated to English in the 19th century and by ourselves with Google translate back in 2020 are vastly inferior. 


## Changes in Research Content

So we will take down some content in the research section and replace them with better ones. This includes removing content that have rigid cult ideas, as we slowly align with Sassani philosophy that connects the ancient past, present, and distant future in a single natural positive flow. 

- Analects and Iching will be unpublished pending rewrite by AI
- **We will focus on the works of Leibniz to complement Descartes Physics** -- this is top priority for Material Superphysics and Supermath
- We temporarily remove Guru Granth Sahib because of its size
- We totaly remove Blavatsky (Theosophy), Osho, and PR Sarkar to avoid cults
- We keep Rosicrucian content since Descartes was said to be influenced by Rosicrucianism
- We will add more Sassani content to emphasize spirituality, high vibration, and freedom (find your own path)
- We bring back Bertrand Russel to see if his stance on China is correct


Like Paracelsus, Leibniz asserts the male-female forces in chemical reactions. This gives us more citation-ammunition to defend our male-female charges concept that replaces positive and negative charges in Physics. The male-female forces are also essential in explaining the dynamics of Elementals in Bio Superphysics.


{{< i s="/photos/stuff/cult.jpg" a="Cult" c="We remove cult content" >}}

The Sassani is not a cult because you can totally avoid them and bash them, and their content is widely available. We primarily use them to check if Descares' Physics also is used in their advanced technology, and we found that it is. So we have a lot to learn from them practically and spiritually.


Removing excess content speeds up render times and reduces disk use on the server. 

