---
title: "Pausing Superphysics to Focus on Pantrypoints"
image: "/graphics/world/ir/map.jpg"
date: 2026-03-30
description: "We focus on the inflation solution for ourselves"
showdate: true
icon: Juan
writer:
  name: Juan
  link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jundalisay/
---


I began the baby steps towards Superphysics in 2009 as a solution to the 2008 Financial Crisis. 

My personal research led to a model that predicted [the crisis years](/social/supersociology/precrisis-years/) starting in 2020 and peaking from 2026, lasting many years, as an accumulation of the Negative Force (Yin or Shakti) imposed by the West onto the world. 

So we began a startup to deploy the solution as as a [moneyless system](https://youtu.be/ysU-Gda2YX0?si=EX-9K0OpRhRRnH4Z), since staticity of money makes it the root of all evil. 

The pandemic was the trial by fire which caused our servers to crash. 

And so we had to overhaul everything to be ready for the PEAK crisis years starting in 2026. 

The lockdown caused us to stay at home where we had the time to look into the theory which eventually led to Superphysics and consequently Economic Superphysics, as the science of the moneyless economy. 

We spent 2021-2025 developing Superphysics and its sub sciences:
- Material Superphysics
- Social Superphysics
  - Supersociology (Social Superphysics without Economics)
  - Supereconomics (Economic Superphysics)
- Bio Superphysics
- Spiritual Superphysics
- Supermath
- Superlogic

The Iran war which began on Feb 28, 2026 which matched our tweaked model predicting it to begin after the Lunar New Year instead of the Solar New year. 

Our model clearly predicts the war to escalate and spread, since no one has made an effor to truly correct the Western mentality which spread over the world since the colonial times. 

If you go against Western science or Western democracy or even Western medicine, the indoctrinated people will call you stupid or uneducated or something negative.

And so the adharmic Western mentality goes unchecked, and along with it the crises and wars that it causes. (Rome collapsed whereas China and India continued)

Creating a totally different economic system is the best way to offer an alternative to corrupt Western mentality.

We need to prove that it can bring food to the table far sustainable and more harmoniously than the Western system. 

And so we have to focus on it during these peak crisis years. 
