---
heading: Part 1
title: "Preparing for Contact"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2005-06-15
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 335
tags: ['arachnophobia']
---




## Introduction: Preparing for Contact

**Bashar:** Let us begin this interaction with the understanding that this is a first step officially of creating a series of interactions, a series of transmissions that are specifically gauged and designed to shift your energy, shift your frequency, shift your vibration, making your world collectively and you individually more open for contact between yourselves and other civilizations.

As there is a schedule and/or agenda, so to speak, that is playing out with regard to when and where such contacts will most likely occur, these interactions and exercises will take into account your own timing personally, your timing collectively, and our ability to interact with you as well as other beings on other levels. Looking at this holistically, one of the things we will be discussing will have to do with your ability to more and more incorporate a holographic point of view, a multiple probable reality point of view, to become more sensitized, more able to sense aspects of holographic and parallel reality frameworks which will aid and assist you in being more capable of perceiving beings that naturally exist in other planes, other vibrations, other frequencies, parallel realities, which will help you guide yourself into the appropriate vibrational state for contact.

We will start simply, and we will eventually involve more and more different kinds of formats, styles of interaction, styles of training. This will not all occur today. We will start simply today with some fun ideas just to get you loosened up, just to get you in the mood. And bit by bit over time, over the ensuing years, the way in which these contact workshops will evolve will include many different kinds of things and many different kinds of experiences and many different ways of doing this. Some of them will involve playing out literally, playing out a simulation of contact through the creation of environments that are conducive to such contacts and such interactions. And many other kinds of things will be brought to bear and brought in as tools to make the idea of contact seem more and more tangible, more and more real, more and more visceral, more and more immediate, until such time as, bit by bit, you are fine-tuned and you become used to the idea and it becomes second nature to you to experience interactions more and more physically both on a personal and on a broad scale level.

One of the things, of course, we recently spoke about has to do with establishing in your societal system, in your legal system, the idea of a coordinated protocol for contact so that you are all, as you say, on the same page with the idea of how it is you would interact with all of us once contact becomes open and known to the general public on your planet. So your involvement in whatever way excites you to make that a tangible reality in your society will also be part and parcel of your education, your training, your exercise, your acclimatization toward the concept of contact as a natural thing, as the next step—one of them anyway—in your evolution in becoming a member of a galactic society to some degree.

Many of you have heard of the concept that your planet has been in effect quarantined for some time, and this is so. We have had for quite some time an off-limits policy of direct interaction with your world and any world that is developing itself in certain ways until such time as we believe they are ready for more and more awareness of our existence and thus more and more contact in a variety of forms. There has then, within the last 50 of your years, come a period where the quarantine has not been lifted yet but has in a sense been lightened, loosened up to allow for more interaction such as what is going on right now between all of you and us, and a few more physical contacts have begun to occur over those last five decades, establishing relationships with various people on your planet here and there. But the quarantine is not yet fully lifted, and thus then there is still somewhat of a distance, a hands-off policy. But it is becoming more and more up to you, more and more in your hands to determine what will occur once that quarantine is fully lifted in terms of the rate at which you will allow contact to occur. For in that sense, it is your world, and as we assist you in becoming better prepared for all the things that will occur with such a contact, then you will make the determination on your own individually and collectively by working together and sharing information as to exactly how, when, and where you will believe it is comfortable for your world and the impact contact will have on your systems. You will decide how this will occur more and more, and we will in that sense follow your lead. For it is only by your invitation that we will interact with you, and when that invitation comes from the majority of your people, we will know that you are making a statement that you are truly ready.

We have done this with many different worlds, many different times, and we have come to understand the effect that contact for the first time openly has on different civilizations. And we also recognize that because of some of the unique situations on your planet, there may be a lot of acclimatization that will be necessary to integrate the experience of contact into your world, to allow the systems you have set up—the social systems, the legal systems, the economic systems, the religious systems, the political systems, the environmental systems, the technological systems, the business systems—all these things you have set up will change with contact, but it is best if done in a way where things can be shifted smoothly to the advantage of all. And this is why a little time is being taken to prepare you for these things, for once it occurs, there’s no going back, and you have to be truly prepared for the kinds of changes and differences that will slowly filter into your society as you truly awaken to what it means to take your first steps towards becoming a member of a global civilization and thus then beyond that, a Galactic Civilization.

You have to some degree in your science fiction stories imagine what it might be like, but many of the imaginings are far from the actuality. You have tapped into some truths that are actual, but most of the imaginings are simply more a matter of exercises to simply get you used to the concept rather than representations of exactly what is going on out here. But as you become aware of what is really going on and what your relationship is to it both personally and collectively, you will find yourselves changing and adapting and perceiving in very different ways than you are used to. And we want to make sure that this acclimatization is done in such a way that you will enjoy the best benefit from these changes, the best benefit from your shift in perception, so that you will strip away all assumption, strip away all indoctrination, strip away all interpretation, and deal truly with what is and allow yourselves to then truly expand and grow along the lines of how Galactic Society exists and Global societies exist.

We know you can do this. It can be challenging, it can be fun, and we will always do our best to assist you in ensuring that this is the way you will experience emerging contact with our and other civilizations. For contact with us, as we have said many times, also involves more contact with yourselves. More deeply into yourselves will you go than you have ever gone before. And in going more deeply into yourselves and integrating more of yourselves, will you thus make yourselves more capable of interaction with others who represent aspects of yourselves many of you are not even aware you contain.

So we will also be discovering both today and in the years to come what those new aspects within yourselves might be. For many of you only have the barest hint of the aspects of your personalities that are contained within your personality structure but have not yet been fully awakened or awakened at all that are the personality aspects that are specifically designed in this day and age on your planet to deal with contact with other beings outside of your world. Many of those personality aspects that you created when you chose to be born into this life are lying dormant within you and are completely unknown to you, and many of them will now awaken and come to the surface, and you will need to deal with them and integrate them. And you will be surprised at how many aspects in your personality there are lingering and lurking dormant within you that you know nothing about and have no experience with. They are specifically designed to deal with interaction with beings that are unlike yourselves both physically and philosophically.

And so this whole idea of preparing for contact is also preparing to deal with these different personality aspects that will actually be very much like encountering an alien within yourself. It may at first seem to create little bouts of schizophrenia, little bouts of multiple personality challenge. Remember that even when you have dealt with the idea to this point, to this date, of multiple personality aspects, different aspects of personality within you, schizophrenic concepts, they’ve all only been talking about various components of human-style personalities. Now you’re going to begin dealing with alien-style personality within yourself, within your own structure. In order to bring that to the forefront to have some common reference to deal with—with other alien personalities is completely outside your system—so you have an entire, shall we say, mini-federation within yourselves that you have to come to terms with, that you have to relate to, that you have to in that sense make peace with and form agreements with before you can even really begin to form agreements with us and relationships with us. So that will also be part of the overall process, and it will take some time, but that’s all right. It will be fun if you let it. It will be surprising, it will be enlightening, it will be unlike anything you have ever encountered before within yourselves. But we will guide you along the way.

One of the reasons why individuals such as myself, who have the job of dealing with other cultures in acclimatizing them to contact, one of the reasons why we have incarnations on your planet is so that we can learn about the aspects of humanity that can exist within us. So we will then take those aspects, learn how best to integrate those human aspects with the alien aspects, and then relate that experience back to you in the way that we have discovered those relationships work best within ourselves. Thus we create common ground with you. If we didn’t have incarnations in your society in order to draw upon those experiences, we would in fact be too alien to be able to relate to you and you to relate to us.

Remember that what you have been experiencing of us through the channel is a modulated and altered expression of who I really am through the idea of a human filter. If you then eventually meet me directly or meet any member of my society directly, we will surprisingly seem a little bit more alien to you than you think, than you are used to dealing with us, because the consciousness you are dealing with now in terms of this aspect of my personality is being filtered through the idea of human personality to the degree it needs to so that you can make sense out of the vibration coming to you and relate to it somehow. Relating with us directly will seem very, very foreign and very alien to you until such time as we get you used to the alien aspect within yourself. And then when you make a friend of that alien within yourself, you will be more capable of relating to the aliens that we are. You follow along?

This is also one reason why we have suggested very strongly that you also have as many encounters as possible with other species on your own planet, such as the dolphins, because again they represent the idea of an alien culture that is very much unlike you, although you do share many common ideas by living on the same world. Nevertheless, they are different enough that interacting with them and what you learn by doing so gives you, shall we say, a leg up in dealing with the alien personality aspects within your own personality matrix. So anytime you are capable of interacting with other species such as the dolphin, such as the apes, such as certain birds, even such as trees on your planet, it will give you an idea of exactly how to learn to be more flexible in drawing upon different aspects of your personality that have up to this point been relatively dormant and give you an understanding of how to communicate in ways that are beyond or different than the idea of human communication. So all of that is very important.

Now, beginning with today, we have designed a few little exercises that are very simple beginning exercises that you can just have some fun with. This is not a test, but it is in that sense something that will begin to give you a very basic idea and a very simplistic idea of where we may be heading in future interactions with regard to contact preparation. Now we are not going to begin with these exercises right now, but you may take a moment just to look at the diagrams that you have been given just so you will know that when we start to use them today you will have a little bit more familiarity with what it is you are dealing with.

In the first series of diagrams, which are composed of seven circles, you will see that it comes in three basic configurations. One configuration represents the idea of what might be referred to as the basic stations on a ship, on a spaceship—the basic aspects of a spaceship that give you the ability to accomplish certain tasks in your journeys and adventures in that spaceship, in your explorations. The second level of that has more to do with the energies themselves of those abilities, the states of being that go along with those particular stations, those physical stations. And the third configuration has to do more with the quality of energy that is associated with someone who is drawn to those particular stations. We will explain how to utilize these diagrams a little bit later in this transmission.

The first diagram shows you how all these seven circles are connected by a very specific geometric matrix. The second set of diagrams are a series of symbols. Now, this has nothing to do with our language; it is something that we simply created for you for this exercise. We will tell you what to do with this a little bit later as well. But when you play with this exercise, you will be given a nice little surprise at the end when you solve this particular puzzle.


# Guided Meditation: The Spaceship Journey

**Bashar:** So become comfortable, close your eyes if you wish, take three deep breaths and let them out. All right, now just breathe easy, regularly, comfortably. And imagine if you will that you are on a spaceship of your choosing. It can be any shape; it can be one of your science fiction imaginings. You can be on the bridge of one of your science fiction starships, or you can imagine you are on one of our ships, or you can make a ship up of your own. And you can be anywhere you want to be on that ship. Doesn’t matter. Just imagine you are in fact on a ship, on a starship, on a spaceship. Allow the ship to be comfortable, not cramped and not overwhelmingly large in any particular section so that you can relate to the space you are in. Make it a cozy ship. It can be a very powerful ship, a very large ship in general, or it can be a smaller ship if you wish. Doesn’t matter. Whatever you want to relate to, whatever you feel at home in, whatever version works for you.

Allow yourself to begin to more solidly imagine that space around yourself. Feel the deck of the ship under your feet. Feel yourself tap the deck solidly, making sure it’s there under your feet. Go ahead, you can actually physically tap your foot. Feel the deck solidly under your foot, feel the deck solidly under your feet. Or if you are sitting in a chair on the ship, feel the chair under your body, comfortably, solidly under you. Allow yourself to feel a familiarity that you have been here before. You may not specifically remember exactly where or when. Maybe it was in dream time, but you’ve been here before. Maybe it’s in another life, but you’ve been here before. Maybe it’s in a parallel reality, but you’ve been here before. Maybe it’s in what you call the future, but you’ve been here before. Maybe it’s in what you call the past, but you’ve been here before. On this very ship.

Even though the ship is symbolic, understand that even if you create a symbol to wrap yourself in, you are also simultaneously remembering being on a real ship. So it is one and the same experience. The symbol is the thing, the thing is the symbol, and they are wrapped up in each other like a skin within a skin within a skin within a skin. So what you do and what you imagine in the symbol will be just as real in the ship, even if you don’t perceive the actual ship but are simply using the symbol as a type of virtual reality experience. It will still translate into the real ship.

With that in mind, and with yourself firmly grounded on the deck or comfortable in the chair or walking around through the hallways or looking out the viewports or standing on the bridge or in the engine room or wherever it is you imagine yourself to be, just take a moment to really look around and make sure that everything you believe needs to be on that ship is on that ship. Be it equipment, be it room configuration, be it the number of viewports, be it the images that are on your screens, be it that there are other people doing other tasks at their stations, be it even that you have a pet with you if you wish. Whatever way you wish to set up what is home for you on this ship, allow yourself to make sure it’s all there in your imaginary ship. Right now, take your time, feel it out, make sure it’s exactly what you want it to be: color, size, shape, and style. And it’s all right even if it seems to be made out of stone or wood. It doesn’t matter. You know that’s a symbol, but you also know there’s a real ship that’s connected to that symbol. So it doesn’t matter how you wish to interpret it at the moment; it’s still the real ship even if it’s not made out of things you think technologically a ship would be made out of. That will still be all right for the purpose of this meditation. So get the color, get the material, get the lighting, get the mood, get the surroundings, get everything you can just right so that when you know you are floating among the stars going from planet to planet, you will really be taking your home with you and the ship will really be your home for that journey.

Now, then allow yourself, in whatever way you wish to do this—whether you’re looking through a window, whether you’re looking at a view screen, whether you just know it in your head holographically, even if you’re just looking at a postcard in your hand as a representation of what’s outside the ship—see yourself in your ship floating over the Earth, however high you wish to be. You’re floating above the Earth in your ship. Now feel yourself give the order to rise into space and move farther away from the Earth at whatever speed you wish. It can be slow and leisurely, or it can be lightning fast. Doesn’t matter. Can even be an instantaneous jump to somewhere else. Doesn’t matter. Just give the order and experience the move.

Feel yourself now somewhere else. Earth is no longer close enough to even recognize it as a planet. You’re just somewhere else. Be it that you’re out in space near another star or near another planet or in some other dimension or even inside a bigger ship or looking at something out your viewport you don’t even recognize and can’t even make sense out of. Doesn’t matter. What you want to pay attention to at the moment is simply the feeling, the overwhelming feeling that you’re somewhere else, somewhere different, somewhere foreign, somewhere alien. But the ship is somewhere familiar, somewhere home. It is Earth itself if you want it to be, but it is familiar. Yet that familiarity that you have brought with you is now suspended in an environment that is completely and utterly other than you are used to. Its very otherness holds your fascination. You can feel the otherness of it, and with your curiosity, you let yourself feel that otherness, feel it out, taste it, smell it, touch it, sense it, hear it. Explore the idea of the otherness, the truly alien environment, to whatever degree you are comfortable. Be it a little bit or a lot, you are truly now somewhere you have never been before or even considered ever being. But you are truly there, yet at the same time still anchored to your home, safe and secure, but willing to open that window a little bit wider and a little bit wider and let in more and more of that otherness that is not you.

Whatever sensation comes up, let that be all right. Create it to be whatever amount you can handle, but just truly immerse yourself in the alienness of it. It can even be so alien you don’t even understand what you’re experiencing, but that’s all right for now. The only important thing is to just feel it and to know and remember that when you feel this otherness, the otherness also sees you in the same way. You to it are the other, and you are just as foreign, just as alien, just as unknown to it as it is to you. So you have that in common first of all. Your unknown to each other is something you have in common, and therefore the unknown that you share is the first thing you know about each other. So out of unknown comes knowingness, and that’s the first step of commonality. Of common ground is that you have no common ground. Let that become a foundation on which to build a future.

Then, when you feel you have felt that for now enough, pull back within your ship, within your familiarity, within your home, and go back to Earth, back to orbiting your planet, the familiarity of the beautiful blue and white and green globe below you, seeing the richness of the land, the depth of the ocean, the effervescence of the clouds, the beautiful sunlight gleaming on your planet Earth. Home. Just like your ship. But you have brought back with you just a hint of that otherness. Perhaps you have stored it in a box, perhaps it has been captured as a vibration in one of the chambers or sensors on your ship, perhaps it has been downloaded as a program that you can call up on your computers anytime you wish to get a sense of that otherness. But you have brought it back with you in some way, shape, or form, just a little bit of it. And you can explore that otherness anytime you wish. You can pull it out of its box, visit it in the cargo bay, pull up the program, take a view of it on your view screen, play back the experience, and it will be a full sensory experience because that’s what your ship is capable of giving you: a total immersion recreation of that experience of otherness.

And along with that re-experience and reliving of your encounter with otherness and the unknown will also be contained that knowledge that the unknown that you each have is what allows you to begin to know each other and form a common bond. That will also always be a part of that experience, contained within it like a seed that will grow, grow, and grow over time into a network, into a bridge, into a connection, into a commonality, into a kinship, into a family, into a relationship. For that is really what your spaceship is: it is a vehicle for the establishment of relationship in new areas. And as you experience this otherness out there and as you get used to it and as you play with it and relive it as many times as you wish, you will also start to feel that it is making changes within yourself, opening doors that have never been opened within you and allowing you to begin to play with the otherness within yourself, to get used to that and establish the same degree of connectivity to the otherness within your own personality that you are attempting to establish with whatever the otherness is out there.

And as you take stock of this once again, be comfortable on your ship, breathe in the experience deeply, and take it to heart, take it to mind, take it to soul. Breathe it in three times and know that that experience has now become an integral, unchanging part of your fundamental being. And allow yourself to just get used to being someone you have never been before ever.

Now stay on your ship, and with this knowledge and with this experience, with this feeling you now have of having accomplished this first encounter with otherness, this first encounter with a true unknown, hold on to that experience and cherish it and take it with you as you now walk through the rest of your ship, looking into every hallway, every corridor, every room, every chamber. Take your time, enjoy the journey, enjoy the tour. Give yourself a tour of your ship, knowing that it is a good ship, a sound ship, a solid ship, capable of many such journeys anytime you wish. And that when you use this ship to partake and undertake these journeys, you will in those moments be truly encountering true otherness, true unknown energy that you can integrate at your leisure, in your way, at your pace, in your style and your level of comfort. And that that will acclimatize you more and more, more and more, more and more each time to the idea of the unknown and allow the unknown to become more known to you as you yourself express more of your unknown to yourself and make it familiar and make it become part of who you are and who you have always known on some level yourself to be. And that will incorporate itself into the very matrix of the ship, and the ship may change to accommodate your new perspective of yourself as well. Let yourself be flexible in this.

Take three more deep breaths and let yourself settle back down to Earth and let the ship dissolve so that you are once again on your planet. And then open your eyes, be back in the room together, and feel the sense of cohesiveness that we will all take with us on this journey of preparing for contact.



# Exercise Instructions: The Seven Circles and Symbols

**Bashar:** let us together pick up the diagrams. Look at the diagram of the seven circles connected by the geometric line figure. Are you all on the same page, literally and metaphorically? All right. You see how this configuration connects all seven circles? It goes from center to center to center to center to center. You understand? All right.

This configuration, for this exercise, those lines are all of the allowable pathways. 

we will explain what we mean by allowable pathways in a moment. But each of those lines is a pathway from circle to circle. Some lines will touch more than two circles; in that sense, they may go through three circles. Singular lines some may only go from one circle to another.

Now look at the diagram that contains the Stations of the ship. Just take a moment to look at every single one of the stations on the ship, be it the idea of Systems or Communications or Engine or the Bridge or the Healing Center or the Sciences. Just take a look at all of them in whatever order you wish to and just get a sense about which ones seem most attractive to you, so that if you were going to serve aboard a starship, allow yourself to decide what stations, at least for the first time, for the first tour of duty, you would actually feel most excited about serving in. Just take a moment. Don’t have to memorize them right now or anything; we’ll be doing this again later in a different way. But just get a feeling about where you think you would like to spend some time aboard the ship, in what department. Take a moment, just play with it.

Just as important is deciding what areas of the ship you really aren’t excited about spending that much time in. Doesn’t mean you can’t visit these rooms, but that’s not really where you want to work on the ship.

Now, once you have done that, switch to the next level of diagram that shows the states that are associated with these various stations, and again do exactly the same process you just did. Take a moment, look at the states, and make a determination now that you’re seeing the states that are associated with these stations as to whether or not you are still attracted to the same stations. See what states of energy, what vibrational states, you would like to be in when you are in any of these stations on the ship. Which seem most appealing to you? If you were going to do this as a job every day, what would you like to really spend some time being in a state of? And it can be more than one. Pick all the different chambers that represent the states that you are most attracted to, just like you picked all the different chambers that represented the actual ship stations you were most attracted to for right now. Doesn’t mean this might not change someday, but for right now, you won’t be stuck in any particular job. Don’t worry, we don’t work that way. We will always make sure that you are in a job you really love to do, and if that changes, we will always make sure you get to change your job with that change within you.

So right now, just for the first time that you are seeing this, imagine that this is in a sense a ship that you get to live and work and play on, and where would you actually enjoy spending most of your time in terms of the work that you will be doing and what state of being represented by those different stations do you feel you would most enjoy? One or more? Spending your day in?

Once you have done that—and again, you don’t have to be finished with it right now, we’ll come back to this later—change the page and look at the qualities that go with these states and with these stations, and once again do the same exercise. Just give yourself some time to peruse all the different qualities and all the different activities and all the different actions and behaviors that go along with these different kinds of stations and the different vibrations associated with them. And just take your time, peruse through them. Think of this like a brochure for a cruise ship: "Oh yes, I would like to spend some time in that deck and some time doing that activity," and "Oh, this seems particularly appealing, healing, I would like to do that too. I’m going to put that on my itinerary." Just take some time and enjoy.

Now again, you don’t have to be finished. We will give you time later to delve more deeply into this, but we just want to set up how the exercise will generally evolve. When we come back to it later, you will be doing a very specific thing, and we would then at that point, after what you call your lunch period, recommend that in order to complete this exercise and also the other one we will be outlining, you will require a writing implement, a pen or pencil, at that time. But for now, just get used to these qualities, used to these ideas. And if you change your mind later, that’s fine, but we want to just set up some of the vibrations within you to prepare you for the exercise that will actually occur after your lunch period, at which time you will need a writing implement of some sort.

Now let’s take a brief look at the second exercise, the first page of which is the page full of symbols. Just look at them for a moment. Just get a feel for the symbols. Just turn them around in your head, see how they feel to you, see how they taste, see how they smell, see how they sound. Go on, if you want to sniff the page, that’s all right. Want to stick your tongue on the page? That’s okay too. Give them a taste. Put it up to your ear, see if something comes through. Just play with that full sheet of symbols for a moment. Hold it sideways, upside down, doesn’t matter. Just play with it for a moment, just absorb it. Just allow yourself to feel that the symbols are going through your eyes, through your optic nerve and into your brain, just soaking them up like a little sponge. See them floating around in your head.

By the way, don’t you find it fascinating that you can imagine a symbol in one part of the interior of your head and can actually imagine it moving around to different parts of the interior of your brain? Isn’t that strange? Think about that. You all think of your brains as having such specialized areas, yet you can take the picture of one thing and actually imagine it moving around to different areas of your brain, and yet it’s still the same symbol over and over again no matter where in your brain it seems to be coming from. Isn’t that fascinating? Just think about that. That’s another part of the exercise. Just think about that and imagine that and see how mysterious that actually seems. It’s as if your head was actually empty or homogeneous instead of differentiated into different parts. Isn’t that interesting?

All right, now again, you don’t have to be finished doing this. We will get into this later. Look at the last page of symbols, the ones that are separated by lines. Just give them a glance, that’s all. Just notice the structure of the page, the symbols above, the blank space below. Just give them a cursory once-over.

Now fold up all your diagrams, your pages, put them away. We will get back to these later. Now that you have been, shall we say, properly prepped. All right. Now we will take the remainder of this transmission. Would anyone like to interact with questions and answers on this topic at this time?


### Question 1: Arachnophobia and Alien Preparation

**Audience Member:** I have major arachnophobia. Yes, I’ve been terrified of spiders since childhood. I’ve tried different modalities to get over this fear, such as hypnosis, yes, such as trying to look at photographs of spiders and to learn more about them to acclimate, yes. And I am still absolutely terrified.

when I was a child and I shared a room with my sister as a young child, she told me that spiders had eyes all over their head and wherever I was, they were watching me. So in my research as an adult to try to learn more about them, I discovered that yes indeed, they do have eight pairs of... they have eight eyes on the top of their head. So she was in fact telling me the truth. Oh yes. And so this... this feeling, and I relate it to the abduction experience and the fact of the implant, it is connected to that idea that you are being watched. The other aspect that I uncovered, yes, was that when I was a young child, I used to catch what we call Daddy Long Legs, yes, and I used to pull their legs off. Oh, all right. I was very young, and I was torturing these poor creatures, yes. And so uh, a therapist that I went to said that my fear of them was tied into guilt, right? To the fact that I was afraid of retribution, yes. So all of these things I’m conscious of as an adult, and yet when I still come across a spider, even the smallest one, and especially large ones, I’m absolutely terrified. 

**Bashar:** Although all those things are true and are relevant to certain aspects of your experience of phobia, there is deeper and deeper ideas into which you can go that will help you learn to relate in a different way to this concept, to this symbol in your world. The first thing we will explore is this concept that they have eight eyes and eight legs. All right. Okay. Now, just aside from the idea that it has anything at all to do with a spider, what does the number eight represent for you on its own?

**Audience Member:** Well, the infinity sign

**Bashar:** All right. And how do you relate to the idea of something that is absolutely infinite, without bounds, unlimited, endless, forever and ever?

**Audience Member:** To think that something could be eternal and that there is no end, because I think that for myself at least, um, we always fear that there will come an end to my life and that transition into what we call death.

**Bashar:** All right. And so the number eight can represent what to you?

**Audience Member:** It could be something positive and beautiful and indicative of transcendence, yes.

**Bashar:** All right. Can you begin to understand that anything in nature that would so strongly reflect the number eight might also carry an aspect of a symbol of transcendence to you?

**Audience Member:** Yes.

**Bashar:** All right. Doesn’t have to be much right now. Can you impose that idea? The spider, the idea called a spider, might symbolize the idea of infinity and also, through its webbing, the idea that even though things are infinite, they’re all interconnected. Yes. Can you sense the qualities of infinity and interconnectedness in a positive way on their own?

**Audience Member:** Yes, but when I sense the web, I also feel entrapment.

**Bashar:** All right. You are dealing with that polarity, and that’s all right. I am simply assisting you in understanding how you can start to apply other kinds of frequencies to the same symbols. So even though you may sometimes feel that the web symbolizes entrapment, it can also symbolize the interconnectedness of infinity. Yes. And you can begin to look at it that way and bring that quality to it just a little bit.

So what I’m saying is that what you’re going to do is get that feeling of interconnectedness, the web of life, the web of all that is throughout infinity. Get the feeling that gives you firmly in place within your solar plexus. Then, at a distance, look at a spiderweb and just make an attempt to project that quality onto the web as if the web is a symbol of that vibration rather than the one of entrapment. Do you follow me?

**Audience Member:** Yes.

**Bashar:** You don’t even have to be close enough to see the spider. If you can see the web, just start projecting that quality onto it a little bit. Okay? Until you can start from that distance, from what you feel is a safe distance, you can start to relate or accept the web as actually having that representational vibration rather than the one of entrapment. Once you get to that point where you can accept the web at that distance with that vibration, then take another step closer and see if you can keep doing it. As soon as you no longer can do that but feel the vibration shift to the one of entrapment, stay at that distance until you can identify the symbol with the vibration you would prefer to. 

**Bashar:** And you can keep doing that also with the spider as well, however long it takes. It doesn’t matter. But you can do it step by step, a step at a time, just like that if you wish. That’s one thing you can begin doing. All right. So the key word again is Transcendence. And yes, and whatever the symbol is that represents the idea of a web that connects throughout all infinity and allows you to feel transcendent, whatever that vibration is, start to apply and project that meaning and that frequency onto that symbol at whatever distance it is safe for you to do so.

**Audience Member:** Well, we had discussed once before the idea that the web also... the idea of the spider represented that they could be anywhere and very mobile and had infinite power, and you hinted that that might be part of my fear.

**Bashar:** Well, yes, to some degree it is. But the process and the procedure I’m giving you now will also incorporate that aspect of it in it. If you do it a step at a time like this, at each step when you become comfortable with it, different aspects will occur and come into your imagination that will also go hand in hand and be incorporated with everything else we’ve talked about that they symbolize.

**Bashar:** So start with that exercise and see how far you get between now and the next time we discuss this.


### Question 2: Earth’s Resources and Contact

**Audience Member:** I wanted to know... I’m very concerned about the Earth and the depletion of our resources and the encroachment on the beauty. Yes. Is there a relationship between the contact and what is happening on the Earth at this time?

**Bashar:** Of course. And thus then, when you all can gain within yourselves a better understanding of your relationship holistically to the Earth and what behaviors and activities would be more representative of a holistic behavior and relationship with the Earth, then bit by bit you will allow yourselves to recognize that there are other ways you can go about doing things that will not have the negative consequences upon the Earth. And thus then, that will also go a long way toward reflecting your readiness for changes and shifts in how you do things, and that will key directly into the idea of what we will also represent with regard to the kind of change that can occur on your planet with regard to contact. Make sense?

**Audience Member:** Yes. I... so the more you do individually to help bring about changes in the direction of what you believe would be more beneficial physically on your planet, the more it will also aid and assist in the acceleration of our ability to interact with you, since our planets are in fact in relationship with us in balance.

**Bashar:** I just hope that the Earth can survive.

**Audience Member:** Of course it can. Remember that your Earth has been pounded by asteroids and all sorts of things; it’s still around. You must understand that to some degree, the idea of what it is you have done to the Earth isn’t really so much the idea of damaging the Earth permanently; it’s damaging your ability to express what you want on the Earth. You understand?

**Audience Member:** Yes, I do.

**Bashar:** So the idea is that if you destroyed yourselves on the Earth and scarred the Earth up, well, eventually the Earth will recover, but there may never be the Human Experience on the Earth ever again in the same way. Mhm. You follow me?

**Audience Member:** Yes, I do.

**Bashar:** So does that help you?

**Audience Member:** Yes, it does. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

### Question 3: Contact with Guides and Caregiving

**Audience Member:** Hello, Bashar.

**Bashar:** Any you? Good day.

**Audience Member:** Uh, I have two questions. The first one is about an incident about a week ago. I’m not quite sure what the contact was, so I’ll give a quick description. All right. It was about, oh, maybe less than 2 minutes long, yes. I was lying in bed during the day, um, and I felt some consciousness, you know, asked me if I would like to uh, review that which I was concerned about, right, and frustrated about, yes. And the level of consciousness that contacted me, I could feel that it really, really understood what was going on. So I just started with a question, um, and then there was a direct answer, and I could hear the truth. And I would say what usually plagues me and takes me about a week or two to get through, all of a sudden was done in two minutes. Yes. Very good. And then what happened is that, and it was interesting, it reminded me of you in a lot of ways, and I was thinking, I wonder if this is Bashar?

**Bashar:** No, not directly. It was actually one of your guides, but using the vibration the guy knew you would respond to in a moment of open vulnerability. Vulnerability in this context meaning true strength, not weakness. And that guy took advantage of that moment when you were willing to open up to a degree where you would accelerate the downloading of that information. Right?

**Audience Member:** Well, what was pleasant at the end of that contact was uh, a direct reference to, you know, "I know you enjoy this," and the television popped on, yes, and it went and then the channels flipped, yes, to a program I didn’t know was on at that time, and it was one that I enjoy. I just had to laugh and go, "Yeah, you know it’s like this is really great." Yes.

**Bashar:** So, and this is how things can begin to manifest when you truly get in touch with more of yourself. Okay. The second question?

**Audience Member:** Regarding my mother, because I’m caregiver 24/7 at this time, and there is a transition to the positive, and all right, so that I can uh, I’m going to step out of the house and start working full-time and leave her with somebody four hours a day Monday through Friday, all right? Because of the dementia, it’s slight, but it’s still there. Yes. Um, I do feel like my mother... the alien... she’s out. I consciously cannot get her to interface with me. Yeah. She is becoming more and more familiar with another plane of existence. Mhm.

**Bashar:** And therefore, you can see how even the idea of becoming slightly more familiar with another plane of existence, even one that still allows the person to remain in physical reality for a while, can still be very, very foreign and very alienating. Yes.

**Audience Member:** Yes. And to make her comfortable, to create an atmosphere that she feels supported in, um, I have been there for her, so I was pretty assured that I was keeping up a good um, environment for her. Right now, the physical me is stepping away, yes. And yet when I come home or in some way, I’m trying to figure out or be open to how can I make sure there’s a grounded contact or an anchoring, or maybe this is just about just through unconditional love? Okay.

**Bashar:** Okay. And doing the best you can to be of assistance, that’s really all you can do. And let your inspiration and imagination guide you. Just make sure that if the unconditional love is there, you will know that synchronistically what you need to know, you will know when you need to know it, and you will be able to do what needs to be done.

**Audience Member:** It’s interesting that you say that, because the first thing that came up was an idea that came through to me to create healthy packages of food for in-home people. Oh!

**Bashar:** What a coincidence. And because I’ve been kind of knocking around trying to figure, what am I gonna do here? I’m sitting here, you know.

**Audience Member:** There you go. Your inspiration and imagination is working for you. All you need to do is follow through. Yeah. Yeah. It’s a good idea, and I think I am going to work on that.

**Bashar:** In fact, all of you can just remember that really as a catchphrase that will have the most profound impact in your life: **All you really need to do is follow through.** Most of you are capable of allowing your inspiration and imagination to give you all sorts of wonderful ideas. All you need to do is follow through. Follow through.

**Audience Member:** All right, I can do that. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

### Question 4: Trees and Panspermia

**Audience Member:** Good morning, Bashar.

**Bashar:** And are you? Good day.

**Audience Member:** Um, my question is this: in connection with our um, uh, acclimatizing in preparation for... acclimatizing for making contact with aliens, what in connection with that, our having to acclimatize ourselves to other species on Earth, yes. Would you please tell me or us something about the origins, nature, and destiny of trees?

**Bashar:** All right. Well, in that sense, what do you mean by origins?

**Audience Member:** I don’t know what I mean by that. Let’s say nature and destiny.

**Bashar:** All right. First of all, you have kind of a head start in dealing with the idea of interacting with aliens on your planet by understanding that to some degree, at this point in the creation of many local aspects of the galaxy, life begins on various planets as a result, in many cases, of what is called panspermia. Are you familiar with this?

**Audience Member:** No.

**Bashar:** Panspermia basically means that the beginnings of life, the seeds of physical life, the DNA genetic material that creates life on any given planet, is often brought from planet to planet on different bodily forms such as comets and asteroids. So many of the life forms that actually exist on your planet did in fact actually originate elsewhere to begin with and simply adapted to the environment on Earth when the initial seeds, so to speak, were brought to the planet through asteroidal and cometary impact. You follow me?

**Audience Member:** Yes. You mean trees may be alien literally?

**Bashar:** Almost every life form on Earth has its beginning, in terms of its original structured material, on another planet. I see. You follow me?

**Audience Member:** I think so.

**Bashar:** At this point, most material that evolves into what you would call life forms is the product of panspermia, or the transfer of material from planet to planet through asteroidal and cometary bodies. In that kind of an exchange system, the basic building blocks of life are transferred from planet to planet. Depending upon the environment of that planet determines exactly how those building blocks build up, and thus you get some differences from planet to planet, but you also get some similarities depending upon the environment. So in that sense, the trees and every other life form on your planet does have an initial connection to other planets and thus an initial aspect of alienness.

Nevertheless, trees in this sense form many different functions on your planets. Primarily, they are like antennas on the planet to download etheric energies into the Earth. They are like conductors. You follow me? Sticking up out of the planet, rising into the sky, and spreading out to gather various forms of energy and information that they then feed downward into the planet through their roots. Especially what you call the pine trees and especially what you call the Redwoods, which can be interpreted almost like the ambassadors of the tree kingdom to any other kingdom on Earth. So having a conversation with a redwood will take you high and deep into different aspects of reality, as it represents the tree kingdom as it’s the ambassador in that sense of the tree kingdom. You follow me?

**Audience Member:** Yes, I think so.

**Bashar:** What other aspect of this did you want us to address?

**Audience Member:** Do trees speak to each other? Do they tell each other stories of what they do all the time? Do they have wars? Some visionary poets have said that there are tree wars that take place over millennia. We don’t notice them because the trees move so incredibly slowly. Is that a metaphor for something that you can...?

**Bashar:** It is not literal in the sense of how you humans might mean it, no. But it is a metaphor for the recognition that there is a definite ebb and flow of energy and a movement and a change and a shift of resources that may be required by different trees over others, and they have to work out systems that will allow what needs to happen on the planet to be determined by where the resources go to what trees and for what purpose. In that sense, you could say there might be a back and forth tug of war, but it is not exactly the concept of war as you would understand it. But some trees recognize that from time to time, depending upon certain conditions, they may be called upon to sacrifice themselves to allow other areas of the planet to blossom, and they’re conscious of this. They are, in a different way than you understand it, but they are, yes, of course, because they understand the orchestration of the planet. And it is more like the idea of an orchestration. Because they do have physicality, they will to some degree feel the physical aspects, well, shall we say, resistance or inertia in a sense over not necessarily wanting to make a certain kind of change. But nevertheless, they will ultimately make that change, for they realize the benefit to the whole. And trees tend to think globally. Nevertheless, they will still feel some of the inertia physically that requires them to make that change. And I suppose that kind of inertia or that awareness of that kind of resistance could be considered the idea of a struggle, but it again is nothing like what you humans experience as the nature of warfare and struggle and strife.

**Audience Member:** I understand. I’m just fishing about for some way of understanding this.

**Bashar:** Yes, I know. It does take the ability to relate in a very different way to understand the scale and scope of what the trees experience, since they are in many ways so much different than you are and so much, in general, more longer-lived than many of you.

**Audience Member:** Would it be greatly to our benefit to try to communicate with them?

**Bashar:** Oh, absolutely. You can learn quite a bit about how to create a different sense of time for yourselves by relating to a tree. And in fact, you can actually use a relationship with a tree to connect into the idea of the past and future in a very different way than you normally do when you think of it just in human terms. So even though we understand it is the subject of a joke and derision sometimes on your planet, actually hugging a tree will actually have a great deal of benefit in terms of being able to learn to identify with its resonance pattern. I see. Let it rub off on you in that sense. Do you follow?

**Audience Member:** Yes, I believe I do.

**Bashar:** Now also recognize that because they perform the opposite biological function to sustain you—that is, in that sense, they take in what you breathe out and breathe out what you take in—that symbiotic relationship between you already establishes a very powerful link for communication lines between you as well. And if you will establish more consciousness on your own with regard to these communication lines through meditative breathing in and among trees, you will find that that deep meditative breathing of giving out the carbon dioxide they need and them giving out the oxygen you need will actually transfer information to you, and you will become more aware of it if you get in touch with that level of symbiosis that exists between you. You follow me?

**Audience Member:** I believe so.

**Bashar:** So that’s a very good way to learn how to communicate with a totally different species: do it through breath with the trees. For the molecules of carbon dioxide and the molecules of oxygen actually carry resonance information. And when you can learn to speak that language, you will actually be able to interpret that language along the lines of other senses, and you and you actually may literally begin to hear the trees talking to you in your own understandable language in your head by speaking their language first, which is through the idea of electromagnetic patterns and the idea of the dispersal of oxygen and carbon dioxide, which actually carries resonant information.

**Audience Member:** All right. Thank you very, very much.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Thank you.

### Question 5: Communicating with Nature and Past Lives

**Audience Member:** Hello, Bashar.

**Bashar:** And you? Good day.

**Audience Member:** I was up in the Big Sur area, Julia Pfeiffer State Beach, and there’s a river there, and I was surrounded by pine trees a few years ago and got into a channel, internal channeling conversation with the trees there. That’s the first time that had occurred with me, yes. And I was just so overtaken by the love and the beauty that they were providing there. And um, so I just expressed in this conversation with them my joy and appreciation and love for the trees, for them, yes. Thank you. And they uh, responded by saying how much they loved and appreciated me and human beings, yes. Which was a great revelation. Whenever I’m walking through forest appreciating nature and I begin to realize that nature is actually there appreciating me.

**Bashar:** And very importantly, listen to the way that phrase actually comes out in your language with regard to interpretation: you are appreciating each other. Think of it in monetary terms: you are, by interacting, appreciating each other, which means you are concurrently uplifting each other’s value. Yes. You follow?

**Audience Member:** Yes, certainly.

**Bashar:** Thank you for your experience.

**Audience Member:** And another idea you expressed with a prior um, person was the idea... um, I was wondering, are there forms of life that on Earth that originated on Earth that did not come from other areas there?

**Bashar:** There are a few that are extensions of the original building block material that developed on your own planet, but only a few. Most are the result of building block materials that also originated off-planet and then to some degree combined with the building block materials that originated on planet. Most of the life forms that came from the extension of just pure building materials on your planet did not all evolve beyond a certain point because, shall we say, the diversity of the material that came from off-planet was so much richer than the diversity of material that existed naturally on your planet, that only in combination with those off-planet materials did nature find enough evolutionary diversity to allow the lines to continue for a long, long time. You follow me?

**Audience Member:** Yes.

**Bashar:** And then I had a question relating to the idea of um, the idea that we are part of the Creator, co-creators, we are connected to, we are not separate from... no. But there is a number, like a consensus reality, a large group of population here who believes the idea of this is an alien idea to them. The idea that they believe that the Creator is separate from them. Yes. And so how did that start? Um, is there a specific point in our existence where that began?

**Bashar:** Because of the nature of the reality you have created on Earth experientially, you have imposed upon yourselves a great degree of what is simply called limitation or isolation. The experience of limitation. One of the definitions of the experience of limitation is that you can’t experience the degree of limitation you wanted to experience without divesting yourselves, in a sense, of the memory of such a connection. And so the idea is that you chose to forget. You chose to experience the experience of disconnection. And in experiencing the experience of disconnection and forgetting, therefore, that you are connected, then because that is a self-reinforcing experience, it takes a while to reconnect to the idea that you are connected. Having come through the experience of disconnection, you’re never really disconnected, of course; you cannot be. But the experience... having the experience of disconnection came from the degree of limitation that goes part and parcel with what is simply called the overall time-space dimension experience on Earth. It’s one of the definitions of the way Earth Humanity chose to experience itself through a great degree of self-imposed limitation. So that’s simply one of the side effects that goes with it: is forgetting that you’re connected so that you can have a fuller experience of limitation and disconnection. Okay?

**Audience Member:** So the idea that religion puts out really supports that, helping us to feel separate so we can have this more physical limitation experience.

**Bashar:** Yes. And now that you have, in a sense, had just about every experience you can have of separation and limitation, you are now running out of those experiences and again reawakening and remembering that you in fact are always connected, even when you’re having an experience of disconnection.

**Audience Member:** Do you perceive in our near future, as you read our energies now, that we will in the near future... the consensus of the population will begin to accept the idea that we are not separate from the Creator?

**Bashar:** Well, "near" is a relative term. However, we find that as we read the collective energy, somewhere between the year of 2033 and 2150, you will find that in there there will be a high degree of acceleration in this notion, so that by the year 2150, it will be unlikely that anyone on your planet will feel any sense of disconnection from the Infinite.

**Audience Member:** And are there specific one or two main mechanisms that we will utilize to help bring about that remembrance of that connection?

**Bashar:** Not really. There will be a variety of mechanisms as befits the variety of belief systems that exist on your planet. But in terms of, shall we say, for the purpose of answering your question directly, whittling it down to general categories, you will find it will have to do with the fact that it is simply the time and place for this to happen. That you are reaching a critical mass, and that will actually awaken within most people who wish to stick around through the transition the idea that there simply is no other way they can think. The energy of the collective and the critical mass will be such that it will impose upon the collective population no ability to think any other way than to see themselves as connected. So in that sense, you will use the mechanism of critical mass threshold to induce elites to see things in a different way.
