---
heading: Part 3 of Preparing for Contact
title: "Joan of Arc"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2005-06-15
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 335
tags: ['icosahedron']
---




### Question 12: Joan of Arc and Character Arcs


**Audience Member:** Since I was quite young, I’ve been obsessed with Joan of Arc. Obsessed with Joan of Arc and Maude Gonne McBride, and she was known as the Irish Joan of Arc. I always cry when I... I think about her.

**Bashar:** It’s not necessarily a real reincarnation. No. Not necessarily. The idea, again, is to remember that all lives are simultaneous. 

thus then, it’s not that anyone here has been anyone anywhere else, but that there are vibrational resonance energy connections that may be representative of connections in the oversoul, or identification vibrations of themes that you’re exploring in this life that are very similar to themes that were explored in those lives or are being explored in those parallel lives. Ones that have a great deal of meaning to you, ones that touch your core feelings, your core vibrations, your core themes, will bring up these wellsprings of emotionality. And in that, you identify with certain places and times and the way conditions were and the kinds of things people experienced, and all of that in terms of the meaning you give it and the meaning it has for you in your journey here will cause these emotional resonances to occur within you to awaken certain states, so that you can recreate the idea of the idealized state of that in your present life here. In a sense, like a bleed-through.


**Bashar:** And the other question? Oh, one moment. Yes. It is also no accident in terms of the titles of the characters, in that sense, because what you’re attempting to do—and this ties in also with the idea of acting—is create a character arc. You understand? No? Joan of Arc. You understand? No? Joan of Arc is also a connection to the idea that the process you’re going through is actually what is called in acting a character arc. You are changing from one kind of identity to another. Uhhuh. And so you are also using that symbol to remind yourself that that’s what your process is: you’re going through a character arc.

**Audience Member:** Yes. All right. The other question is, is what with schizophrenics and manic depressives? Yes. Um, what is the connection with other dimensions and possibly even alien contact? What what is that?

**Bashar:** Some of it can be representative of contact that is not being appropriately processed. Some of it can be representative of many other kinds of things that may simply be termed imbalances. But the idea is that sometimes that, and multiple personality disorder, and a variety of other things that are going on within people emotionally and mentally and psychologically on your planet, may be simply an inability to process things that are relatively natural kinds of connections to other dimensions. It’s just that you’ve never been given the tools to understand how to process them. And this is why there’s a fine line on your planet between the concept of genius and madness. The genius simply has the tools to do the very same thing that the schizophrenic or multiple personality disorder may be doing, but they don’t have the tools to process it. You understand? Connecting to other levels, making association, getting downloads. But the genius has found a way to process it that works. The schizophrenic or multiple personality person simply does not have the capability of understanding that there’s a connective net there that can be utilized to integrate all these things together. Does that help?

**Audience Member:** Yes. Okay. One last question then. Um, uh, how do you uh, how do you increase your ability to go into other dimensions? A simple question. Question: how to increase your ability to go into other dimensions?

**Bashar:** Well, let’s see. I suppose you could lather yourself up with soap so you become more slippery. Oh! You thought I was kidding? Let me put it another way. The more things you include in your life that are vibrationally representative of the reality you prefer, the more lubrication you will provide in terms of energy resonance that will allow you to become more slippery interdimensionally. 

### Question 13: Past Contacts and Hybrid Children

**Bashar:** We are going to need to check in for a moment. By a statement of yes, how many have figured out the deciphering? 

Yes. By a statement of no, how many have not? 

No. Do you need a clue? 

Yes. Do you understand that the first page are numbers? Do you understand therefore that numbers can be substituted for something else? Does that help?

*(Laughter)*

**Bashar:** What else can numbers be substituted for?

**Audience Member:** Letters.

**Bashar:** It away? Yes. But not completely. So continue with that. And continue with your question.

**Audience Member:** Um, my question is uh, in the context that I had... can you tell me, were they with your people?

**Bashar:** One moment. There have been two or three that were with my people. The rest have been with others, the Grays. Some have been with the Grays. The rest have been with others.

**Audience Member:** Can you define others?

**Bashar:** Some have to do with Pleiadian energy. Some have to do with Sirian energy. Some have to do with other interdimensional beings for which you have no name.

**Audience Member:** Hm. So there’s been that many, huh?

**Bashar:** Yes. All righty. Then it’s not that uncommon. You see. Uhhuh. It’s just at this point still uncommon for all of you to recognize how common it is. Hm.

**Audience Member:** Because the only one that I have a conscious memory of was uh, with... with somebody from your world.

**Bashar:** Yes. But if you ask nicely... ask nicely... when you go to sleep for more memory of some of the other contacts, it may start to leak into your consciousness as a memory or as a dream.

**Audience Member:** Okay. I... I tried that last night. My sister told me I was having a conversation with somebody. I don’t remember it. But you know, that’s all right.

**Bashar:** You will. It’s a beginning, okay? That you were told you were having the conversation shows you that you’re using your reality, in this case through your sister, to give you a recognition that something is happening. So your reality is starting to show you signs that you are having those interactions. First, it’s through your sister; next, it might be through your own consciousness. But at least you were being shown something was happening. So you are working on it, and you are progressing. Okay?

**Audience Member:** All right. Thank you very much.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

### Question 14: Tunguska Event and Vedic Science

**Audience Member:** Uh, hello, Bashar.

**Bashar:** And are you? Good day.

**Audience Member:** And um, I want to ask a question about the... a big explosion happened probably uh, almost 90 years ago from now. Uh, um, above Russia. It was um, asteroid explosion or something, or it’s some... you are talking about Tunguska?

**Bashar:** Yeah, Tunguska. Yes.

**Audience Member:** Can you a commentary? Body? Yes. A little a commentary. Body? Is it a necessary step to progress in our Earth, or it was accidentally it was happened accidentally, or it’s it was necessary for...?

**Bashar:** Well, there are no accidents in that sense. But it was simply what you would call, on that idea, a random event, a natural event that has happened many times on your planet. We understand that some people also recognize that it was the possibility of an exploding spaceship, but that is in a parallel reality that no longer applies to your reality. Okay? The reality you are all in now understands that it was the explosion of a comet in your upper atmosphere, similar to the idea of the explosion of the comet that destroyed Atlantis. Okay? Except that the Atlantean one was many times more powerful. Does that help you?

**Audience Member:** Yes, yes. Thank you. Uh, one more. Yes. Um, I want to ask you about the Vedic... Vedic science, uh, which is uh, Indian, I mean, which... yes. Uh, uh, and I knew... is it... it wasn’t created by by the human, and is like, is it information come from some other beings?

**Bashar:** And well, it comes from another level, but humans accessed it. Humans have the ability to access other levels and other beings and other intelligences, through which then information can come that the humans can then process into a certain kind of system that they can use. So it came from other levels, but through the idea of human intuition and imagination, it was downloaded in a way that humans could use it. Do you understand?

**Audience Member:** Yes. Does that answer your question?

**Audience Member:** Yes. But this is the better way to prepare for for contact, or it is a way?

**Bashar:** Okay. Not better than any other. It is one way. Okay? Thank you. All right. Thank you. If it is your way, then it’s better for you. Okay? But it may not work as well for someone else because their vibration may be different.

**Audience Member:** All right. I understand. Thank. Thank you.

**Bashar:** All right. Now, how are you doing now with the deciphering? How many have deciphered it? Yes. How many have not? No. No. Starting to be a little more even. Keep going. Next question.

### Question 15: Acting Class and Metatron

**Audience Member:** Hi, Bashar.

**Bashar:** And to you, good day.

**Audience Member:** Good day back to the um, abducted dating service. Yes. And that was my husband before.

**Bashar:** How long has that been going on in both our lives, generally speaking?

**Audience Member:** Since about the ages of somewhere between three and seven. Wow.

**Bashar:** Um, do we have a hybrid child?

**Audience Member:** You do. Ah. Girl? Female? Yes. Yes. But more than one?

**Bashar:** Yes. I have two. Is that correct?

**Audience Member:** More? Two? Oh. Wow. How many? Now understand, this is a matter of degree. And when we say it’s a matter of degree, it’s a matter of exactly how much genetic material of yours is utilized in any given, or present in any given, hybrid. Whereas the genetic material may also be stretched out very thin over a number of hybrids. It’s up to you to determine what percentage of genetic material above 50% would thus then be representative of your child, and what percent, perhaps below 50%, you wouldn’t necessarily think of as your child. You understand?

**Audience Member:** Yes.

**Bashar:** But if you include all the children, hybrid children, that do contain at least even, let’s say, 1% of your genetic material, you’re actually talking in the hundreds. If you’re talking about those that contain more than 50%, you’re probably down somewhere around 13.

**Audience Member:** Ah. All right. Okay. Um, when I was a child, I had dreams about lights coming through the sky, and I always shared a room with a brother. Yes. And we would often try to... we go outside and watch the stars for spaceships and things like that. Yes. And we would engage in trying to astral travel, and this is when we were very small. Um, he is now a robotic scientist and doesn’t believe any of this, which is really... yes. But we were so bonded that way as children, and now he sort of pooh-poos what I... pooh-pooh. Yeah. You like pooh-pooh? Is that a scientific term?

**Audience Member:** That’s a childhood term. Is there such a thing as pooh-poohity?

**Bashar:** I think so. Yes. All right.

**Audience Member:** Um, will he ever embrace that this again in his life?

**Bashar:** I don’t know. Why don’t you ask him?

**Audience Member:** I have asked him, and he thinks that I am hallucinating. Oh. All right. Then let him think you are hallucinating if that helps reinforce the belief system that he prefers to have right now. Now, if is possible, what is his physical age?

**Audience Member:** 52.

**Bashar:** One moment. One moment. It’s possible. Somewhere around the age of 68, he may get a little surprised. That may change his point of view. But he’s set that up. Yes. But doesn’t know it and shouldn’t necessarily know it, so it won’t spoil the surprise. Right? So somewhere, give or take, 67, 68, 69, is he... may have a slightly different point of view. Now I will also tell you a secret. Okay? What is his age?

**Audience Member:** 52.

**Bashar:** Somewhere around 57, something may happen that will actually make him think about this kind of thing, and he may actually secretly harbor a belief in some of this, but he will not be willing to admit it until the 67-68-69 scenario, at which time he may say, "Well, you know, something actually happened back about when I was 57 that made me sort of change my mind, but I couldn’t really admit it then." Do you understand?

**Audience Member:** Yes. I understand that. That’s all we are allowed to give you right now from those that know better than we do. Right?

**Audience Member:** All right. Um, last question: are the Pleiadians involved with the Grays and the abductions?

**Bashar:** No, not directly. There have been from time to time some Pleiadian interactions with regard to some of the things that go on in the so-called abductions, but they’re not directly involved in them. You understand? Yes. They may have from time to time given their advice on certain scenarios and helped guide things in what might be called a more beneficial direction, but they’re not directly involved.

**Audience Member:** Was there one in particular involved with me?

**Bashar:** Yes. I thought so. All right. Okay. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you. How are you all doing now? How many have deciphered? Yes. That’s all? Thought there was more before. Have you gone backwards? How many have deciphered? Yes. How many have not? No. No. Is it getting too frustrating? All right. You understood that the first page can be translated as numbers? Yes. Do you understand it now? I have just told you. So why don’t you understand it now? Do you see the symbols? One, two, three, four, five. Just transpose your own numbers in the top line of the first page: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. What does that make the next line? 11, 12, 13, 14. All right. Once you understand that and can then transfer those numbers into the letters of your alphabet, you’ll be able to decipher. Does that make sense to you? Give that a shot.

Next question. Hi, Bashar. One moment. Remember that you were told that there are actually a couple of, shall we say, typos on the second page that may be momentarily confusing, but it shouldn’t stop you from figuring out what it’s supposed to be. Yes. But that’s all right. You still understand what it should be. All right. Continue with the question.

**Audience Member:** Okay. I have a question. Um, hello. Good day.

**Bashar:** Oh, hello. Good day. Speak up. Speak up so that all may hear. All right. Can you hear? Amplify. All right. Can you hear me?

**Audience Member:** I can. Yes. Okay. Um, oh, now you made me nervous.

**Bashar:** Okay. Oh, I made you nervous. Um, what a talent I have. Okay.

**Audience Member:** If um, emotions are like secondary... the secondary part of beliefs, yes. How can they be genetically engineered out of a species by simply not having the capacity to feel them, to process them?

**Bashar:** You understand, you have to be able to have the physical capacity to process them. It’s not that in that sense belief will automatically generate it in a body that doesn’t have the capacity to experience it. Okay? Does that make sense?

**Audience Member:** Yeah, that does. That’s interesting. All right. Okay. Thank you.

**Bashar:** You’re welcome. Up R? And are you? Good day.

**Audience Member:** Um, I was taken this other class, and um, this other class being... yeah. Well, it’s an acting class.

**Bashar:** An acting class? All right.

**Audience Member:** And um, the teacher does a lot, quite a bit of metaphysical type stuff, and it’s open to other things. And she um, all right, basically what she called "alien energy" had been coming into the... to a lot of her work and stuff recently. Oh. All right. Which I thought was a coincidence, because I just got in the class a month ago.

**Bashar:** All right. And uh, no accidents. Exactly. Well, co-incident. Yes. Co-incident.

**Audience Member:** Um, and uh, didn’t the... the energy, the information that came to her was that it it was related to the ascended masters? Do you... do you have any...?

**Bashar:** That’s part of it, but that’s not all of it. Okay. But that’s a place to begin.

**Audience Member:** Is there any... okay. So I need to like... like drop that question? I cannot really interfere with the way in which that process is unfolding. I must leave it up to your teacher to decide how best to allow it to come through and how to identify it in her own space. Okay? So for now, that will work. It will turn out to be other things things as well, but for now, that will work, long as you understand it’s another frequency and another vibration, and that there is the willingness to recognize that as such. That’s actually the most important thing, rather than exactly what it is. MH. The most important thing is that it is recognized as other. All right.

**Audience Member:** Okay. And then the last question was is um, Metatron? Do you have any experience or uh, any information that you excites you to share about Metatron?

**Bashar:** Metatron, in that sense, is an interpretation in the consciousness of your people of a certain level of energy, a certain entity. And the interpretation is usually expressed in the idea of geometric forms, ratios, and golden proportion relationships, like the Tree of Life kind of things. Yes. And vibrations that are also indicative of those ratios. That is how Metatron entity expresses itself or translates into your reality most often: as the actual vibrations of geometric shapes and relationships that represent underlying structures in the nature of existence.

**Audience Member:** So if one wanted to invoke that Metatron template for in a healing situation, what what would you feel would be the best uh, way of invoking that one?

**Bashar:** One good way, one strong way, is to look at the diagram we have provided you with regard to The Matrix that’s on the cover of the seven circles. Okay? You see that form?

**Audience Member:** I did see it. It has a lot of the Tree of Life in it.

**Bashar:** Yes. Focus on that shape with the seven circles. That entire diagram is one very, very strong gateway into metatronic energy. Is that... ahed? What do you call it? Icosahedron or something in there?

**Audience Member:** Icosahedron? Isn’t there icosahedron in that?

**Bashar:** There is. Yeah. Is that the symbol? It includes all of the solid shapes that are regular in that way, plus several that are interdimensional. Okay? 

**Bashar:** What is the time frame remaining for this segment of the transmission? All right. How are you doing with the translation? How many have deciphered now? Yes. Yes. How many have not? No. No. All right. We will allow you to take this all the way through your next break, and we will talk about it afterwards in terms of the decipherment, since most of you now know basically what it says.

However, for the remaining time at this point, put your pencils and pens down, put your diagrams down, become comfortable, let it go. It’s just playtime, not a test. Don’t be frustrated. It’s all right. Just things to stretch and expand your way of looking at things. Of course, this is just the very first level of this kind of thing. It will get far more complex as things go on, but don’t worry. It will also get easier, because you will uplift. Once you get the idea of how all these things interconnect, you will be able to see in new ways, and things will reveal themselves to you much more quickly. You’ll be able to recognize patterns where they are in a new way. It will actually be like you’re developing a new sense. And in a sense, you will be.

But for now, close your eyes, take a deep breath. Take breath. Take two. And take three. Imagine if you will, right in your third eye and in your sinus cavities behind the bridge of your nose and behind your eyes, imagine the resonant cavities of your sinuses filling with blue energy. Blue, vibrating, cool or hot, spicy blue energy. Feel the energy going in, invigorating, washing out, stimulating, bringing to life the magnetite that is in your sinuses, activating the magnetic orientation that you all naturally have, aligning like a magnet, creating a magnetic field extending from the third eye, the sinus cavities behind your eyes, through your whole face, a magnetic field surrounding your head with one pole at the top, the other pole inside your throat. And feel these blue electromagnetic lines spinning around, spinning around, spinning around, almost like your classic diagram of an atom with a dot deep in the center of your brain, in the center of the corpus callosum between the two halves of your brain.

And as you see that dot in there inside your brain, a dot of glowing light that is like the nucleus of an atom, move it around slightly inside your brain, as we did with the symbol earlier, noticing that it can really appear in your imagination just about anywhere inside your head, regardless of the fact that you think your brain has different sections that do different things. You can still move that image around, that dot of light, that glowing blue brilliant star inside your head, moving up and down and around to all portions of your brain, back and forth from left to right, front to back, up and down, simultaneously moving, moving, stretching, collapsing, expanding, while all the time the electromagnetic field is orbiting around your head, fluctuating according to how you are moving the central dot.

Just sort of waking up your senses, waking up new senses that have been dormant for a long time, waking up alien senses you never knew you had, the ability to sense things you never knew existed, invisible things that are all around you that you know nothing of but have been with you all the time. Spirits, other entities. Fear not. Nothing will harm you. You are just becoming aware, aware, aware of what is already there. You have activated a new sense. No, it is always there to serve you. And anytime you see in your meditations and practice this, practice this, practice this, anytime you see this configuration of the bright star in the center of your brain and move it around and see the electromagnetic blue lines orbiting around your head, know that you are activating and awakening and aligning that sense with all your others to give you an expanded sense with which you will perceive new things. Sometimes perhaps surprising things, startling things, unexpected things. Nevertheless, it’s just a sense, an alien sense that you will integrate with your human ones, that will take you farther in your ability to experience more of creation.

Remember, it’s all part of creation. There is no outside of creation. It’s all within. Expand your sense. Do this anytime you wish. Practice, practice, practice. And know that each time you do it, it will strengthen that sense until it becomes second nature, like sight, like sound, like smell, like taste, like feeling. You will suddenly be more aware of vibration, resonance, and it will translate into other senses. You may hear, you may see, you may smell, you may taste things that seem to not be there, but now your other sense, your new sense, will tell you they are there. Be it in a parallel reality or another dimension, doesn’t matter. Now you are stretching beyond the veils of physicality, stretching beyond the old definitions into new realms.

I give you this intuitively: authors on your planet created an idea in the past called The Twilight Zone. I tell you, there actually is such a place. It’s a template reality that exists just a little, little bit above your own that functions as the actual empty template for your physical reality. In this Twilight Zone, you can build any shape you wish to manifest in physical reality. And this extra sense will help guide you like a compass into that template level, Twilight Zone, that is like a set of props that you can arrange to whatever way you wish. And thus know that as you expand your senses into it and get more proficient at arranging things in the template, then as you increase and expand your energy in physical reality, you will be acting as a conduit through which that template will come down to earth into manifestation.

So this sense is a sense of a twilight place. It is a twilight sense, a little bit outside your reality, just a half step outside, just on the edge, just just over the edge, but not so far that you can’t get back, not so far that you can’t still live here and stretch your senses into that place as well. Use it. It’s a tool you do use, but unconsciously. Now you’re learning to use it consciously. The template level, The Twilight Zone. It’s real. Use it. Anything is possible, more and more every day.

Take a deep breath. Breath. Take two. Take three. And feel it anchoring in you, this new sense. Take four. And know that every time you practice this particular meditation, you sharpen that sense. And now you may all Take Five.

We will resume this transmission, or say, let us continue this transmission. All those who have deciphered? Yes. Yes. Those that have not? No. Oh, all right. Nevertheless, now is the time to read the deciphering. Would someone like to volunteer to read what they have deciphered? All right. Come up to what you call your microphone. Speak loudly, clearly with your deciphering. What is your first line translation?

**Audience Member:** The quarantine of Earth ends in the year 2012.

**Bashar:** All right. The quarantine of Earth ends in the year 2012. This is the meaning of that date on that level with regard to this specific issue. The idea that it represents the end of a cycle and the beginning of a new one, of course, is many things. It is also the end of the quarantine by Galactic Society of your planet. This does not mean that the very next day hundreds of spaceships will be landing all over the planet. So please don’t interpret what I am saying that way. What we are saying, however, is that once the quarantine is officially ended from our point of view, then everything is up to you as to how quickly contact can happen. Nothing will prevent us from making contact with you except for you at that point. There will be no law on our side standing in our way after that date. So the quarantine will be over by that date. After that, it’s all in your hands completely.

And the second decipherment?

**Audience Member:** Be prepared for the possibilities of a contact event in the fall of 2005... 2015. I mean, 2015.

**Bashar:** Be prepared for the possibility of a contact event in the fall of 2015. Hot off the press. Latest sensing of the energy most likely to exist, most likely to manifest. Thank you for your reading. Thank you. Most likely to happen, as we read your energy now. Things might change up a little bit, but most likely: be prepared for the possibility of a contact event in the fall of 2015. We will talk more about that at another time, but this is now the time we are allowed to make the first such announcement. So be prepared. Which is what this is all about: preparing for contact.

Now, with regard to your other diagrams, as we said, practice with that in terms of associating the station, states, and energies to the shape of the glyph you have made. Be it a straight line this way, straight line this way, straight line this way, triangle this way, lines this way, lines that go like that, lines that go like this. Doesn’t matter. Whatever that glyph is is an encapsulation of the vibrational frequencies of your signature relationship to those qualities, those stations, those states. Practice them until they feel like one thing. Until you see the glyph or draw the glyph and it becomes the entire vibrational signature. By this signature will you be recognized. So ingrain it. Ingrain it. Ingrain it. Paint it. Draw it. Commit it. Commit it. Commit it to resonance. Commit it. Commit it to awareness.

Now then, one moment. Here is another idea for you to practice on your own time. If you wish to write down these instructions, that’s up to you, or simply remember it, that’s fine too. But here is another thing to do. We will not actually take you through this particular meditation at this time. We will let you set up the conditions on your own first and go through it according to your own imagination, in your own way, your own pace, your own style.

What we would suggest that you do: find or create a representation of an alien that you believe you would enjoy having contact with energetically. In other words, the alien shape that you represent doesn’t necessarily even have to be one that you know may really exist. It can be a symbol, a representation, as long as it represents the kind of energy you believe would be in the contact that you would have. Find a picture or make a picture, whatever size you want, of what you believe is a symbolic or literal representation of an alien one, one that you would like to have or would enjoy having contact with. Create that. Put it somewhere prominent, dead center in the middle of a mirror somewhere in your house, so that surrounding the image is a reflection of the room the mirror is in and a reflection of you. But dead center in the mirror, put the alien image. Every day, at some point, however long or however short, in whatever way, shape, and form you want to do it, create your own little contact conversation. Even if it’s "Hello, good morning, how are you? I’m fine, thank you. Have a nice day. I’ll see you later." Just get used to the idea of what that image represents to you vibrationally and what it represents to you potentially in terms of that actually physicalizing on your world, so that you would actually be doing that with a real, physical, tangible extraterrestrial. Get used to that idea, but play with this first. All right. Have fun with that. There will be other aspects to this particular exercise, other stages, other levels, other steps we will get into later. But for now, this is Contact 101. Just the beginning. Just start to play with these things. These are the seeds of what will develop into much more, much more complex exercises and interactions and energy shifts. But for now, start with these seeds. They will serve you well. They will set up... they will prepare you. Then later, we will postare you.

Now let us continue to the conclusion of this transmission with interaction and questions if you wish on the subject.

### Question 16: Mars and Ancient Civilizations

**Audience Member:** Can I go ahead?

**Bashar:** All right. Uh, by the way, I just wanted to say, when you come, if you need a place to stay, you can stay with me.

**Bashar:** Why? Thank you. I was interested in the relationship uh, with the ancient civilization of Mars and what that um, all our missions to Mars that we’re doing now, what bearing that has on on all this.

**Bashar:** Well, it’s like delving back into the so-called past to retrieve ancient history and ancient knowledge of yourselves, so that you recreate the stepping stones that your souls have taken in evolving from planet to planet on your journey in this particular star system. Make sense? Uhhuh. Does that address your question sufficiently, or is there some other aspect of this you wish to explore further?

**Audience Member:** Some other aspect. Which would be: what is there any current life on Mars?

**Bashar:** Not so much indigenous. But now the idea is, there are certain bases, some of which harbor some of the ancient original life, but some of which harbor simply those passing through.

**Audience Member:** Are any of our missions to Mars uh, finding this?

**Bashar:** No, not yet.

**Audience Member:** Are they going to?

**Bashar:** In stages, slowly, as you can handle it, it will be allowed. Some of your missions have failed for technological reasons, but some of them have failed because they’ve actually been stopped. So they will not discover yet what they are not meant to discover yet.

**Audience Member:** Oh. Okay. And and what, how long ago was that civilization on Mars?

**Bashar:** You are dealing with something that extends into what you call hundreds of thousands of years ago.

**Audience Member:** And are they... did they come here from there? In the sense, incarnation?

**Bashar:** Yes. Not so much physically, although there are certain physical contingents of the ancient civilization that do exist upon your planet in certain ways. Mostly it was the idea that you stepping-stoned incarnation from Mars to Earth.

**Audience Member:** And who who would they be now, and the ones that came physically from there? And what happened on Mars? How how did that civilization destroy itself?

**Bashar:** It didn’t destroy itself in that sense. It was what you call an asteroidal impact that destroyed the ecosystem of the planet, made it uninhabitable, ripped away the atmosphere.

**Audience Member:** And who would the groups be now on Earth that that came there physically? The descendants?

**Bashar:** They would be those who were in that sense descendants of some of the survivors, but they are not yet ready to be found. They exist in certain hidden places within remote areas, but they are not ready to be found. Some of the idea of preparing for contact will involve the rediscovery of your ancestors in this way and your origins in your stepping stone path. You follow me? Uh-huh. Does that help you?

**Audience Member:** That does. Thank you. Thank you.

### Question 17: Sleep Paralysis and Abductions

**Audience Member:** Hello, Andrew.

**Bashar:** You? Good day.

**Audience Member:** Uh, when I was uh, five, six, seven years old, around there, I used to wake up in the middle of the night, and I had a feeling of my chest being compressed or pushed down. It was very difficult for for me to breathe, yes. And I couldn’t really move. I couldn’t... I couldn’t move my head, my arms, and yes. Remember thinking when I woke up in the morning I was going to tell my parents about that, but then I would never remember it in the morning to tell them.

**Bashar:** That is because you were instructed not to. Okay? Can you give me some details of what was going on?

**Audience Member:** The idea of that so-called kind of paralysis is a side effect of being interdimensionally shifted. When you are no longer actually strongly attached to the physical dimension, you may still be attempting to move your body in the way you are used to, but you will find that is no longer possible because, in that sense, your vibration is not wholly anchored in physical reality, and you don’t yet know or understand how to move in the other dimension. This is imposed upon many of you when you are shifted in your experiences, sometimes with other beings, when you are taken to ships, because many of those ships exist in a slightly different dimensional frequency. And in order for them to ensure that you make the trip from your dimension to their specifically, and in a sense don’t get, shall we say, waylaid into another dimensional frequency, they must in a sense freeze you or paralyze you to impose a specific vibration on you so that you arrive where it is you’re supposed to arrive. You understand?

**Audience Member:** Yeah. I was um, in that sense communicating with extraterrestrials?

**Bashar:** Yes. Has that been going on most of my life?

**Audience Member:** Or yes, you are part of the program of what you call all those gray individuals.

**Audience Member:** And the intention? What is my intention in that process? And is there... what is your intention?

**Bashar:** Yeah. I’m not aware of... well, your intention was to be of assistance to that agenda and at the same time to eventually utilize those experiences to expand your awareness of yourself and become assistive in the transition of your entire world as well as theirs. You understand?

**Audience Member:** Yes. No. Maybe I... I... it’s it’s something I’m not aware of at all. But I gu... no.

**Bashar:** I know. Most of you make that agreement and are unaware of it. So we all do this? Many of you, yes. Of many of you. The idea is not necessarily at first to be aware of it, but you can become more aware of it as the transition unfolds. But at first, it doesn’t necessarily serve you to be aware of it, in some sense, as being aware of it would actually interfere with your ability to carry on your normal lives. Nevertheless, you had intended to be of assistance in this transition, and so you have been. Now that you are beginning to explore it, you can learn to become more aware of what has been going on if you want to. If you need to. You don’t even have to. It will still be part and parcel that what you will get out of it will actually be an expansion of your willingness to explore your spirituality, a willingness to understand that your senses have expanded, that you’re aware of more possibilities, and aware that the world can change in ways that you desire it to with your actions and your participation.

**Audience Member:** So those weren’t abductions? Those were choices that I agreed?

**Bashar:** It’s all choices. Whether you call them abductions or not, but in no sense an abduction. It’s still what many people might call an abduction. Some people would. But that just depends on from what perspective you are looking at it. Okay? It’s all arranged previously on some level, and in that sense is not really truly without your consent overall, although the personality may not have been let in on the deal. And from the personality’s perspective, it may seem like an unwarranted intrusion.

Now, on the other side, we understand that those that sometimes are also doing that from the gray side may not always be the best of hosts, because in that sense they have a particular agenda and are truly incapable, at least they used to be, of actually understanding your human emotional reactions to those encounters. And so they were not always really that careful or cautious about how it is you felt in those experiences. But they are becoming more aware of it, especially as their civilization has changed in its evolution based on the mixing of the genetic material that created their species to now continue as hybrids, such as our race and others that exist. We now are the blending and balancing of the idea of the Grays in terms of their cerebral technology and also the human emotionality balance that allows us to understand that we can come back in this way and help you to go through these transitions so they are not as difficult for you. For in many ways, you are our ancestors, and we are your descendants. Do you understand this?

**Audience Member:** Yes. Descendants. Do you understand this? Yes. Do I have any physical implants at any point from those interactions?

**Bashar:** You have had from time to time. Sometimes they have been removed, sometimes others have been put back in. There might be a residual, as we scan you now, that still does exist within you somewhere around the spinal column. But in that sense, it is almost more of a residual thing, not completely fully active at this point. But the implants are mostly location beacons and energy download devices in the lower spinal region or upper... one moment. It would seem to be somewhere in the neckline, perhaps at the base of the skull.

Okay. Spoke earlier the idea of the trees. I had in Sedona received an idea to do an event, a singing event, to bring people get at the sing for the trees. All right. A time when fire danger was very high, high risk for the trees. And I... is is that something that um, in a sense that um, the trees make a choice to depart the Earth at some point, or is it well...?

**Bashar:** Yes, in a sense. You must understand that as you recognize it, it is part of nature to regenerate the Earth, sometimes through the burning of large forests. Nature does that on its own. Lightning strikes and so forth have gone on on your planet for millions of years, including large forests, so there can be the fertilization of the earth and the regrowth of new trees. Yes. Of course, they recognize the concept of cycles, even though their concept of cycles may be much longer than yours. Nevertheless, they understand that as part of the regeneration cycle of the earth and are willing to participate in it. And do the event for the trees, singing for the trees, songs for the trees, is more an idea just to get people’s awareness. And it’s not that the trees won’t appreciate or enjoy it too. Yeah. Yeah, that was sure. They’re going to... they would appreciate absolutely. They will. And they will use that energy, and they will in a sense give it back to you. Remember again the idea of the exchange that takes place within the molecules of the carbon dioxide and oxygen exchange that you symbiotically are involved in with them. Singing, in that sense, will produce vibrations within the carbon dioxide you give off that they will find extremely pleasing. Okay? They will then in return alter the oxygen they give off so that it will be extremely invigorating for you. Yeah. They will sing back to you.

All right. All right. Last F... last question. Your idea, foreign universal laws. Can you share how it is you came to accept those as being unchangeable and and permanent?

**Bashar:** Because we have never encountered an exception anywhere, any when, at any time, at any place, to those four laws. And recognize that every single circumstance we have ever encountered and every single circumstance we have discussed with any being in any other dimension or civilization all conforms to those four laws. And there has never been yet any exception that we have discovered. So for now, we will simply suggest those are the only four until and such a when a fifth is discovered. But we do not necessarily at this point know whether that will ever occur.

**Audience Member:** Excellent. Does that help you?

**Audience Member:** Oh, that’s awesome. Thank you. Thank you.

### Question 18: Fuzzy Brain and Joy

**Audience Member:** Hi.

**Bashar:** And are you? Good day.

**Audience Member:** Good day. Um, I’ve spent a a lot of my life being unconscious and with fuzzy brain. Fuzzy brain sounds cozy. And um, it really bothers me. And I... I also am...

**Bashar:** What do you mean by fuzzy brain?

**Audience Member:** I just feel like I’m kind of unconscious.

**Bashar:** Well, many of you, most of you, are to some degree unconscious. And you are becoming more conscious. But that’s all right. Whatever rate your process is is fine for for you. If you want to accelerate it, all you really have to do is want to and trust that your synchronicity will allow you to if you take advantage of what opportunities synchronistically come up by always acting to the best of your ability on your highest joy. That’s all you really have to do to defuzz yourself. Okay? Does that help you?

**Audience Member:** So just seeking joy? Not seeking it. Experiencing, allowing yourself to recognize it, and and then acting on it to the best of your ability as fully as you can.

**Bashar:** You see, the only purpose you have in life, all of you, is to simply be yourself as fully as you can. That’s it. That’s your mission. That’s your purpose. How you do that is up to you. And how you do that is not your purpose or mission; that’s just your style of expressing your purpose. Your style of expressing your mission of fully being yourself. Acting on your highest joy to the best of your ability every moment. That can is the way to allow yourself to truly fulfill the purpose, which is just to be who you are, whatever that means as a unique perspective within all that is, including fuzzy braininess. Even fuzzy braininess is a valid perception for a while, as far as all that is is concerned. Without fuzzy braininess, all that is wasn’t understand the difference between fuzzy braininess and clarity or consciousness. So even fuzzy brain serves a purpose. But if you are now through with the idea of fuzzy braininess, allow yourself to simply gain more clarity through the acting on whatever excitement you bring to you through the synchronicity in the circumstances of your life. Does that make sense?

**Audience Member:** Yes. Well, you can’t be too fuzzy brained if you understood that. Well, what I really want to do is just remove it from my head and give it a good scrubbing.

**Bashar:** Oh. All right. Then I would actually suggest that you do that in your imagination and know that it’s actually happening for real. You see, that’s what your imagination is for. It’s not just a metaphor. What you do, what you concoct, what you visualize, what you see in your imagination, and the stronger it is, you actually physically act it out in physical reality, mimicking what’s in your imagination, will actually have a physical energetic resonance effect on your reality, on your body, on your perception, on everything in your reality. So if you see yourself actually doing that in your imagination, find some physical object or symbol or analogy by which you can actually mimic that action in physical reality, knowing that that’s symbolically what you’re doing. You understand? Yes. That’s called sympathetic magic. You follow me? Yes. Sympathetic imagination. You match your imagination with a harmonic empathetic action. That’s sympathetic magic. And it causes manifestation of that that thing to occur. Make sense?

**Audience Member:** Yes. All right. Then and then one last question: when I go into meditation, my head keeps shifting up and down, and I’m wondering, is that just energy movement?

**Bashar:** Me? It is mostly you getting used to the idea. Have you not noticed that the channel’s physical body does that when our energy begins to blend? There is jerking of the head and all sorts of other manifestations that are simply the body’s interpretation of the idea of allowing other energy patterns in until it gets used to it.

**Audience Member:** And are those my higher self, my inner being merging with myself? Or is that and more? No labels needed.

**Bashar:** Okay. Labels sometimes will actually allow you to digress when all you need to do is focus on the experience itself, knowing that you are integrating, you are blending, you’re uplifting, you’re raising your frequency. Doesn’t matter, because your guides are involved and other things are involved and your higher self is involved, and it’s all about the process of becoming more of who you are, no matter which way you wish to express that. So the labels aren’t really so important. Can actually distract you from what you need to really experience. You follow me?

**Audience Member:** Yes. If a label is important, it will be given to you. If it’s not given to you, it’s probably not important. Okay. You follow?

**Audience Member:** Yes. Thank you. Thank you so much.

### Question 19: Magnetism and the Twilight Zone

**Audience Member:** Hello, Bashar.

**Bashar:** And are you? Good day.

**Audience Member:** Good day. I have a i... I’d like to know more about the last meditation, specifically about magnetism in creation and the Twilight Zone.

**Bashar:** All right. Electromagnetic energy, as we refer to it... magnetism, electromagnetism, the electric blue-white light, all these things basically refer to the same idea. It’s a particular manifestation expression of consciousness in a particular form of energy that is just above the physical reality, similar to the idea that water is just above ice. You follow me?

**Audience Member:** Yes. In terms of an analogy, yes.

**Bashar:** So you have the idea that water is fluid. So is electromagnetic energy. But you have the idea that you can solidify water, which is the idea of solidifying that which is in the template into physical manifestation. But you can understand that you you can actually use your intention and your imagination to crystallize that fluid. That’s the process, so to speak, or that’s what does it. So in that sense, you will then create an idea that manifests out of electromagnetic fluid first, because it’s more receptive to that vibration of the imagination, and then with your intention and your actions and your behaviors and your vibrational resonance, you will allow that to crystallize into a solidified manifest that you will perceive as physical reality. Does that make sense?

**Audience Member:** It makes sense. So to access this, I start with the color and that meditation?

**Bashar:** That’s one way to do it. Now, you all do this all the time. Understand, what we are talking about here is not in any case learning to do something you don’t already do. You already do this; otherwise, you wouldn’t be having an experiential physical reality. You understand? Okay? You’re creating this solid-seeming physical reality out of this template all the time automatically. The only thing we’re talking about here is becoming more conscious of the fact that you’re doing it so that you can do it more consciously. Do you understand?

**Audience Member:** I understand. However, it isn’t always necessary that you always be aware of the process, because again, certain things are in a sense more efficient if you allow them to happen automatically. Nevertheless, you can still gain more insight into how this is happened so that you can always direct this idea a little more specifically, a little bit more strongly into manifestation. So that’s one way to do it. But let your imagination be your guide. Your imagination, specifically, personally... all your imaginations are specifically keyed to you, to your resonance, to your vibration. So if you think of an idea you wish to accomplish in this way, all you have to do is use your imagination to see in what format it comes up in your imagination. The way it comes up in your imagination is the way, at that moment, that will work best for you. And if you allow it to be a template in your imagination and then mimic it, act it out as best as you can in physical reality, you will bring that vibration down to earth through you as a conduit and allow there to be crystallization of whatever it is you are setting up in the imagination, electromagnetic Twilight Zone template level. Did that make sense?

**Audience Member:** That makes sense. Thank you. Thank you.

**Bashar:** What is the time frame remaining for this segment of the transmission? Not really. No. But close enough.

### Question 20: Collective Impact of the Workshop

**Audience Member:** Good day. Good day. When I was on my spaceship, I was inspired to a question.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right. And what would that be?

**Audience Member:** In the last workshop, you talked about a piece of art you created representing 27 worlds you were having first contact with, yes, on each planet in real time is reflecting the impact of your contact. My question: what on our collective consciousness did our workshop...?

**Bashar:** All right. Thank you. One moment. 556, 556, 7,000 children will now no longer experience the degree of limitation they would have had this workshop not occurred. So thank you. That’s not the only effect, but that’s one. But that gives you an idea of the understanding of what kind of effects these kinds of amplifications and gatherings and interactions have. 557,000 children on your planet will now not need to experience a certain kind of limitation anymore, and it will allow them to become more quickly, more rapidly, as they grow, more of who they truly are and be stronger beacons of light that will then give more opportunities to others who come into their presence to also feel a higher vibration than they otherwise would have had those children had the limitations imposed upon them that they now no longer will have. You follow?

**Audience Member:** Thank you very much.

**Bashar:** Thank you very much. After all, it’s all of your doing too.

### Question 21: Glyph Application and Ketzel

**Audience Member:** Hello again.

**Bashar:** And to you, good day again.

**Audience Member:** My question is the glyph that I have formulated, yes, is in a triangle. Would I also consider those points uh, in a Chakra relationship as well? If I’m looking at number seven, do I really is it a good reflection to say, oh, wait a minute, this is also the seven?

**Bashar:** Yes. And now you have seen into another level of this diagram. Very good. Okay.

**Audience Member:** I would also like to apply it geographically, because I’d like to do that project about the food.

**Bashar:** All right. Now we starting to get the idea of how to use this diagram holographically. Okay. So what what insight could you give me regarding um, I’ve already got the points on the map that I’m looking at: Point Conception, Avila Beach, and then there’s one out into the be uh, to the ocean. All right. Um, and so so by imposing this particular template over that area, what does it tell you about the qualities of vibrational energy that can then in a sense be infused into these areas for whatever purpose your imagination desires?

**Audience Member:** Well, I would look at my uh, points of reference: the number 7, 6 going through one and 8, and then the Communications number 3.

**Bashar:** All right. And so it’s up to you to figure out how to apply these actions, these energies, these states, and these qualities to that area in your relationship to it, since you chose to apply the template over that area. Okay? Um, and then just the last question: uh, when I was having that communication a week ago with that spirit guide that you pointed out, yes, could you identify that one for me, please?

**Bashar:** One moment. Thank you. It is an aspect, not the totality, but an aspect of Ketzel. K-E-T-Z-E-L. You understand? Um, Ketzel. What is referred to as Ket... Kattle? Oh, yes. Ketz... Ketzel. Okay. All right.

**Audience Member:** Thank you so much.

**Bashar:** You are welcome. So much.

### Question 22: Emotional Release and God

**Audience Member:** Hi, Bashar.

**Bashar:** And you? A good day.

**Audience Member:** I’m... I’m not quite sure. I’m... I’m think I’m going to get emotional.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right. Please, by all means, go right ahead. Have a good time. Let it all out.

**Audience Member:** After the meditation, before we went to lunch, yes, I went out to the car in the parking lot, yes, and was just going to sit in the car and have my sandwich. And I was sitting there, and I was thinking about my project, the piece is a piece project, and it was a little sluggish. And then I was thinking, how can I apply some of these things that I’m getting here? And this thought started to come into my mind, yes, from a very deep place. It like emerged from a very, very deep place. Yes. Very deep. And I... it was imparting upon me it’s kind of words and concepts, yes, and my relationship to them, yes. Like my relationship to feeling like I need to save the world. All right. Very good. Putting you in touch with what definitions you have within you. Right. All right. And going, I... I’ve been struggling against that one for months and months and months. Right. And this thing emerged in me that was like somebody talking from so deep inside, yes, that said, "That’s not your motivation. Your motivation is to give the gift of the beauty and the joy and the light and yes, that peace really brings." Yes. And the tears that were just surging, yes, surging, because you were touched in your core by that voice, by that communication, yes, which is not only you but something else.

Do you know what that other something else?

**Audience Member:** I know. My whole body is shaking. I can barely hold on.

**Bashar:** That’s all right. Do you want to know what the other thing was? What the voice deep inside was?

**Audience Member:** Yes. Are you sure? Absolutely.

**Bashar:** All right. One word: God. You can all speak to God. You can all speak to goddess. God, goddess, all that is does speak to you. You just have to get deep and quiet enough to hear it. Because it’s deep, deep, deep, deep, deep inside. So many layers have you created of yourselves. You must allow the depth to emerge. And as it does, it pushes out all the old ideas, and they flow from you in your tears. All the old vibrations are released in your tears. The water carries them out. The old ideas, the old definitions splash to the ground and evaporate. Congratulations on your conversation with God.

*(Applause)*

Now you know firsthand what unconditional love really feels like. The lightest touch carries the greatest power. You understand? Kind of, sort of... kind of, sort of. That’s all right. I’ll tell youest touch. Where where does that fit into my...?

**Bashar:** The lightest touch carries the greatest power. You were barely touched by God, and yet look what the reaction was. Wow. It was like it’s like an inner earthquake. It’s yes. Unstoppable. It is unstoppable. It is eternal. It is infinite. It is unstoppable. It is all that is. Congratulations.

**Audience Member:** When I came back inside, I was kind of getting the idea to come in and look at these crystals. Yeah. For a few minutes. So I thought, well, that’s cool, that’ll be enjoyable. And I came in and I sat down, and it started. They had this one happened to be on green, and I just was absorbed in it. And and every time that the color would shift a teeny little bit, it was like it was setting off explosions inside of...

**Bashar:** Because you had been sensitized. Now that you have removed some of the detoxifying ideas, you understand? You detoxified some of your belief systems, made yourself more receptive to higher energy, more sensitive to them. Like a cleansing, like a detoxification. Sitting out there in the CU... I was thinking of that as I left here and eating my chocolate.

**Audience Member:** There I was going to have to go and get a detox. I better eat all my chocolate cookies.

**Bashar:** So all right. Very good. Do remember, yes, within reason, in terms of ingestion. Within reason, almost nothing will harm you. As long again as you understand your planet has a lot of toxins on it, you do your emotional and physical detoxifying a couple of times perhaps a year. But also understand the other side of the coin: God is also a chocolate cookie. There is nothing outside of God. Everything is God. So if you eat the chocolate cookie in that way, you and the chocolate cookie can become one within God. All right?

**Audience Member:** I love that. Within reason. Got it. Got it. Got it. Got it.

**Bashar:** Because when you are in the proper state, you will know what reason is, and your personality will not need to run amuck because it is desperate for something it feels it cannot have. Then you will create the idea of the reasonable frame of reference that will allow you to know when actions are within alignment and when they are not. Right? Right. Does this help you?

**Audience Member:** It helps me. How do I keep this going?

**Bashar:** Just keep living and just keep acting on all your excitement and just be willing to be open to these experiences more and more. Now that you have felt that, I would dare say you are willing to be open to it. And it may not necessarily feel exactly the same again, but other energies will come in and other things will happen, and manifestations of this experience will occur in the synchronic in your life in a crystallizing way. Right? Right. So just kind of take it with me to take... take it forward. Act on your excitement. Be aware of it, yes. And know that it makes a difference. Know that it is made a difference. And it’s self-reinforcing in that way. Always.

**Audience Member:** I think you’re finally getting the point.

**Bashar:** I sometimes I have to go around the bend a few times. That’s all right. Bend is as much as you wish. Fun.

**Audience Member:** Thank you. B... the more you bend, the less chance you will have of breaking.

**Bashar:** All right. Yes. Very good. Thank you. Thank you very much.

**Audience Member:** Thank you, Bashar. That was that was awesome. Thank you. I... I... I just want to thank you for that loving, gentle touch that you’re sharing with us today. It just is... it it feels so good to be in communication in that way, as it feels to be in communication with you and all of you.

**Bashar:** Thank you. You perhaps all of you don’t really fully comprehend the degree of pleasure we get out of our interactions with you.

**Audience Member:** Yeah. I’m... I can’t. Yeah. I... I don’t know that. But um, but you will.

**Audience Member:** Good. I wanted to ask you about um, the connection that um, I guess maybe 10, 15 years ago, I looked up at the sky and Pleiades just like came out and just has always been like a beacon for me. And uh, Sirius um, also with a lion path type of thing that I worked with was very strong also. Yes. Um, and and as Anani with the Bashar communications um, how can I I um, create and open more in myself those energies and connections? I know this workshop is here to to teach that and do that, and therefore already with the things you have absorbed today, there is more openness and more ability to attract more experience of these things. And as we said, how you can continue to do that is by trusting the synchronicity in your reality and acting on your highest joy every moment. If your imagination comes up with another specific way in which it tells you you can do this, by all means, follow your imagination as well.

**Audience Member:** Yes. And and and what is your favorite way to play?

**Bashar:** Oh, probably um, running and I appreciate in nature.

**Audience Member:** And how often do you do that?

**Bashar:** Oh, couple times a week. Now I don’t do it enough. Really. My favorite way to play is just um, appreciating nature every chance that I get, looking at the sky, looking at...

**Audience Member:** All right. Is there something more you can do to bring nature into your everyday environment or to bring yourself into nature every day?

**Bashar:** Sure. I could go to the river every single day.

**Audience Member:** Is that possible for you?

**Bashar:** Sure. It is.

**Audience Member:** And why aren’t you doing it?

**Bashar:** Then oh, if you appreciate nature that much and your solution is to go to the river every day, the question is: why haven’t you been fitting it all in? Fitting what in? Timing in my life with the two jobs that I’m working and family and kids and husband and all right stuff.

**Bashar:** But again, remember that your highest excitement is the organizing principle in your life that tells you what actually needs to be taken care of and in what way, and will actually lay out the proper time and timing for everything that really needs to be taken care of, always leaving time and timing for what is important to you as well, if you allow the synchronicity and the excitement to be the thing driving the order in which these things happen and the degree to which these things happen, rather than thinking you have to arrange them mentally.

**Audience Member:** It’s absolutely right. I mean, when the excitement comes to go do it and I don’t... yes. Just for me, it’s just like, gosh, I missed that.

**Bashar:** All right. Well, let me ask the question this way: can you not even spare 5 minutes to go to the river?

**Audience Member:** Of course I can.

**Bashar:** Well, then yes. Yes. That is true. That is my greatest joy. All right. Then go to the river every day, even if it’s for five minutes. Yes. That’s all right. The idea is that you will be taking the action on your excitement. It is possible for you to take. And just that alone, the willingness to just take action that much, will make all the difference in the world. Yes. You see, when you stop even that much thinking it’s insignificant, that’s when you don’t get the point. Your willingness to take action on what excites you, even if it’s just for a minute, makes all the difference in what your life is then capable of showing you is possible from that point forward. And when you don’t do that, even for a minute, you shut down windows of opportunities that will then remain invisible to you, and you will never know they were there or could have been.

**Bashar:** we would ask you all to become comfortable once again. Close your eyes. Close your eyes. Close your eyes. Take a deep breath in and hold it. Don’t let it out. Don’t let it out. Do not let it out. No. Not yet. Not yet. No. Not yet. Hold it. Hold it. Oh, all right. Let it out. Take another deep breath in as deeply as you can and hold it. Hold it. Don’t you dare let it out. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. No. Not yet. All right. No. Not yet. No. All right. Now deep breath in and let it out. All out. All right.

The longer you hold on to things you don’t need, that aren’t you, it’s like holding your breath longer than you need. Just breathe in and breathe out the things that are not you. You don’t need to hold on to them. If you do, you will die. You cannot hold your breath that way and survive. You have to let go so that you can take in the next breath. For in the next breath comes the next thing you need, and in the next breath after that, and after that, and after that, come the things you need. Holding on to what doesn’t serve you is not letting in another new breath to reinvigorate, re-energize, rejuvenate you. Just breathe. Just breathe. And keep on breathing. Everything will be okay. It’s only when you hold your breath that you’ll pass out in order to save your life. So if you want to become conscious, don’t hold your breath. Otherwise, you have to become unconscious to survive. So just breathe. Just breathe. Just breathe.

We will again urge you to do all the exercises using the diagrams, the charts, the meditations we have shared with you this day, knowing these are the first steps in changing the vibrational frequency of your being to make you more conducive to contact. And please have fun. For when we meet, even if it’s with someone from Sirius, it won’t be as serious as you think. Laughter again is simply the indication that if you want enlightenment, all you need to do is lighten up.
