Escalation Acceleration


**Questioner:** you stopped giving information at one point and were silent for a long time. Was that because you were tuned into the fact that you know decisions had been made or because you were going to give information which you could not give you know at that point? 

**Bashar:** Yes. There was in that way the idea you call both of these ideas understand also there was a recognition that there was a physiological shift within the physical channel in that way and we were thus monitoring and balancing the energy to in that sense soften the experience.


**Questioner:** Yeah. So, so that that was his own uh version of of the shift that was made by the mass consciousness. Is that what you mean?

**Bashar:** Yes. It was the perception in what is turned to be the vibratory state you calling. Um since you said that a decision had been made and it was no longer malleable in in one area where it was malleable before and you said there would be um situations in in our world which would be apparent and that we could recognize as symbol of the decision that had been made. Um since it's no longer malleable can you give an idea more of what that will be?

**Bashar:** For the most part, there will be the general idea, as you have said, that there will be certain manifestations of interactions between many individuals finding a planet exercising the positive belief and in that way many individuals exercising the negative. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** There may now be in that way in your terminology the escalation of the interaction of those individuals in that sense to allow them to play out that much more rapidly all of these ideas as they move toward the timing of the transformation for the entire civilization.

**Questioner:** Would it would it concern the ideas of nuclear war at all or the acting out of of like we're going to go towards it but it doesn't you have already made the decision in that way not to and that will be a part of the reason for the solidification at this time. You follow me?

**Bashar:** Yeah. So that's what I'm saying in a representation of the positive and the negative and having a a little scenario worked out but knowing that it it is going to end up positive. To some people would it seem like we were going towards what we had already?

**Bashar:** Yes, perhaps.

**Questioner:** Okay. Thank you. As you have said, you will find him as well. That through when you come to me, your year 1,985, much of this scenario will play itself out. There will be the recognition by the majority of the population of your civilization with regard to the scenario that they will recognize it is in that sense a symbol for a turning point if we... Mhm. Okay. Thank you. Finding Christure. this transition uh of the mass consciousness you're referring to the entire mass consciousness of uh population of planet earth nice understand still within that mass consciousness transformation each and every individual will be making choices of all nature but the idea as we have expressed it is that now many of those choices have been made and in this way it will in your terminology have ticked the scale to a certain idea that idea now exists with the strongest amount of momentum within your mass consciousness. And in this way can be said to then form a solidification of that momentum carrying you then through all the symbols which will represent having taken that step until you get to the next I say leather or focal or crux point wherein you can create another choice. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. Question. Would that include uh conversation or discourse with beings without bodies that exist here on this planet that are here to aid it in any way?

**Bashar:** Yes. Understandably, as you have made this choice for the increase of the momentum toward the transformation, there will then, if you have chosen that idea for yourself, be the rapid acceleration of your conscious awareness of your connection to all other consciousness, physical and non-physical. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes, I do. Thank you. Question. Was there some catalyst which uh caused us to choose uh I'm not talking about which direction we chose but rather a catalyst that just kind of helped the choice be done at this moment only yourselves before just the timing basically.

**Bashar:** Yes. That is what was experienced in that time in what was termed to be the energy wave. It was the crest of a timing through which you had to follow me. Yes. In this way, you may say it was the vibrational wave overlap that coincides symbolically with the idea that within your mass consciousness, as you create certain ideas for the entire civilization to live out, you create vibrational wave patterns, you create ripples in the sea of primal energy. And in that way, you went through the crest of a wave at that time. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes, those wave points do represent the particular timing pattern of what you recognize to be this here and now present universe that you call real. Uh now for those who are not u intimately involved in the uh the battle between good and positive. Yeah, I'm talking figuratively. All right. Uh the symbol that you spoke of. All right. Uh everyone is involved in the sense that they have chosen to be here at this time when there is the involvement of the idea of choice between negative and positive between the ideas as you will express them in third to fourth density. Everyone is involved on some level of their consciousness otherwise they would have chosen to be somewhere else. I understand. Okay. Well, let's speak of the involve physical involvement the obvious physical reality. Um will that mean that uh those people who are on the uh main course of positive already um I don't want to say accelerate but let's say uh what would be will they move at a faster pace than they had been prior to this we understand your terminology this will be as we have said it will be both for the negative and the positive at faster acceleration okay

**Questioner:** question uh there seems to be a tremendous uh amount of people that are likely just almost running towards experiencing things like experiencing the diseases the is this part of this they want to experience it now while they still have the chance to in a sense

**Bashar:** it will be that it will include the timing of the acceleration in that it is to be experienced now so that there will be the opportunity to live that experience and so add to the momentum of the timing of the transformation you follow me

**Questioner:** yes I do thank you

### Personal Experiences and Judgments

**Questioner:** question all Uh actually this is great because this is in the same vein. I have recently within the last few days had three very distinct uh experiences which are which not judging them particularly but they are basically things that I have normally do not come in contact with even at a times whenever I was not consciously trying to be or being more positive yet these things were I didn't conceive of them being necessarily positive and I found it real interesting that I would now be contacting experiences. So without I without you know wanting to judge them negatively one way or the other I find it peculiar that now I would be running into this whereas right in time right in time is that what you said

**Bashar:** right within your timing

**Questioner:** I can't okay or well obviously why is it peculiar it is right within your timing yeah but I don't see how those really had a particular

**Bashar:** you will if you allow yourself to live them. As with anything, as you are doing, continue to allow yourself to let them be valid portions of the unfoldment of your reality. You will see exactly how they fit in.

**Questioner:** Well, I definitely was willing to experience them. There's no doubt about that. Why? And being valid for whatever reason. I just found that experiencing these particular normally as we would think of negative things to be a little bizarre right now. Why? because I have been you know projecting more of a positive

**Bashar:** but you are making a judgment you follow me you are saying in this way that they do not serve the positive unfoldment of yourself you expect not to experience certain things because oh I am doing this such and such a way therefore this cannot in that way manifest but understand that you are only putting the negative connotation on it as it manifested it does serve positive purpose for you and those portions that you are integrating within yourself at this time you will understand what part they play if you just simply continue to live.

**Questioner:** Yeah. Okay. Well, I didn't I didn't really want to judge them, you know, in any way. I understand. I have I have something to share. All right. Uh this has to do with uh experiencing um the validity of what we normally call real or reality. Um today I was looking through a travel magazine and I saw these terrific pictures in there of different places around the planet that were very beautiful. And it was amazing to me because whenever I looked at the pictures, I had this like very high elated feeling. It was as if I was there without being there. And I had a realization that judging the the um planer the the plane of being the sheet of paper with just a picture on it as being not a real reality. Uh was just a way of limiting oneself and experiencing things.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** And that was really great. And I had I think what led up to that was a day or two before I had some pictures of Sedona area on on my wall in my office. And I was looking at one particular one and I noticed that it seemed like it had great dimension to me. Yet I was looking at a piece of paper and so I think that's what was leading up to this other realization which is really neat. Poor.

**Bashar:** Yes. uh along the same line, she uh asked her first question about [Music] um things very small things uh have occurred to me recently like I got two parking tickets. I don't get parking tickets. Uh now I'm just comparing with the way it had been. All right. My life had been going along quite perfectly and then um so I'm wondering if um it is still going perfectly.

**Bashar:** Oh yes, I recognize that. But just considering it on an earthly vein, uh are these particular kinds of things which are expenditures of money which don't physically do me any good.

**Questioner:** Oh, but certainly now I do understand somewhere. Keep going. Are these particular things uh specifically perhaps to allow you to generate a flow? Ah, you know, I conceived of that today.

**Bashar:** Oh, very good. Yeah, but you had your answer. Yeah, that is wild.

**Questioner:** [Music] wild. Yeah, that's a judgment, but I'm not going to judge my judgment. Another question. Um uh on one tape you said I guess it was a couple couple weeks ago a gal asked about her fiance who was having quote body problems unquote and you said they were actually great opportunities and I'm wondering in what way are the opportunities how would you utilize them how you realize there the opportunity how is it an opportunity for a guy who's sick you had gone oh shit's an opportunity in that way to view different portions of yourself as you function within the idea of having created the disease for you to give yourself as a symbol of the disease the idea that you are now exploring portions of yourself that you may be judging not I will say allowing yourself to know are valid parts of you also simply opportunity to perform service for other individuals who may also in that way use that individual as a symbol for themselves as well you follow me

**Questioner:** I follow you except that uh I I have difficulty connecting uh exploring a portion of yourself. You know, I've had this kind of cough for 3 weeks and I'm going, "Okay, so what's this all about?" I'm kind of, you know, waiting for for some kind of an answer to uh occur to me. I I still don't know what I'm exploring. I presume that on some some subconscious or unconscious level, I may be understanding what's happening, but on a conscious level, I don't know what to explore on.

**Bashar:** All right. But that is your assumption. I love you say that the first inclination would be in that way that if it does not come in answer form as you expected to in a certain way then you relegate the idea oh well it must be somewhere deep down in there in the subconscious unconscious I cannot consciously know what it is saying in that way that you are there then right then and there creating the separation recognize in that sense that the situation the event in and of itself is the answer and if you simply take it for granted that you do Oh, what it is in that way manifesting for you as an opportunity and just continue to live within that knowingness. You will see that it will become quite blatant, quite obvious, quite physical in your reality as to exactly why you have manifested that idea. Okay, follow me. You just basically assume that you know or just allow that you do and go on living, not sitting, wondering, waiting, analyzing. I am not going to live one more second until I figure this out.

**Questioner:** Holy. Well, I I don't do that. I am exaggerating. I think to heart in the past. I don't do that.

**Bashar:** Yes. Good. All right. You have taken them to heart. You may now take them to fruit.

### Life, Fear, and Integration

**Questioner:** All right. All right. Thank you. Question. Yes. Uh the the the processes that everybody's talking about, I seem to be caught up in it myself. caught up. Apparently, everybody is. Anyway, I have Is everybody caught up at some point or the other? Uh, maybe not. All right, go ahead. Okay, that's suggested. At any rate, my best friend and I um are sort of partying always philosophically or spiritually, whatever. And um it seems that uh because I'm doing what I'm doing and I'm trying a lot of different things uh spiritually that I have never attempted before. Nice. I don't go to work when I don't feel like working. All right. And I sort of I sort of have gotten to the point that uh if I what we've discussed sometimes or if I lose at a certain thing it's it's obvious a gain someplace else. And uh not someplace else right there with you. Okay. And and you do not lose at anything. Right. Okay. Well, what I'm asking is I've going I've been going through this process and being nervous as hell and on the on the one hand uh real real scared but very energetic towards some end with I don't know uh feeling super high and often uh just as I mean really tired. tired as if I have been actually working all day all night. actually working all day all night. Yeah, I see you have and and and I'm not sure that I understand what's going on. Could you spread some light on this, please?

**Bashar:** Oh, there's that little light again. Everyone assumes we have this special light and that they themselves do not have their own light which they can shed anytime, anywhere they wish to. Well, I just we are playing with you. I want your light to my light. Let me see. All right. I will tell you exactly what is going on. In one word, life. That is what is going on. Your life.

**Questioner:** Well, it's beautiful. And I can see that. But I mean, whoa, whoa, whoa. What did you say? It's beautiful. I can see that. Well, well, same as Bob. I think so. I think what I'm asking is Oh, one moment. One moment. One moment, please. Thank you. Will you repeat after me? If you wish. Just up to you. Your choice. I don't care if you do it now. Okay. Okay. Let's do it. It is beautiful. It is beautiful. Would you like to say that again? It is beautiful. Do you believe that?

**Questioner:** Oh, well, I I certainly believe it. Thank you. I mean, we know what you mean. No need to paraphrase nor put into other words a simple statement. I believe it. I've even be begun to start understanding. Begun to start?

**Bashar:** Well, English class. How about you kept the other statement so simple? You may do the same for these as well. I am understanding pain and fear. Stop. I am understanding. I am understanding pain and fear.

**Questioner:** Oh, really? Oh, very good. What are you understanding now about pain and fear?

**Bashar:** As something of beauty in terms of life also. All right. Also a chance for an opportunity. Yes. of integrating portions within yourselves that you adhere to for not been willing to look at apparently. All right. So what? No big deal.

**Questioner:** Okay. Maybe to you it is. Is it to you a big deal?

**Bashar:** Well, certainly. I mean, what I'm going through in my life right now, it could have been happening, but I'm just beginning to notice. All right. So, what? So, it's a hell of a transition for me. M of a transition. What about a heaven of a transition? Okay, it's it's one heaven of a transition. What about an earth of a transition? You can wait on me to show up for my Do you wait for me to show up before you go on living?

**Questioner:** No, but I often try to talk to you.

**Bashar:** Try? Yes, you are trying to talk to me. How about just talking to me? Speaking of which of that I have been getting in touch with somebody who won't say anything but he's there and doing those kinds of uh inspirational growth or whatever I am experiencing. I'm just one so many things are happening so fast. All right. All right. One moment. One moment. Relax. I mean I'm exhausted. This is how it is all the time.

**Bashar:** Yes. Yes. Yes. Because you are trying too hard. You are wearing yourself out thinking that you have to be everywhere at once to catch up to yourself to be able not to miss anything. You will not miss anything. You are already everywhere at once. You will miss nothing. Everywhere that something can go, you will be there. Do not worry about it. Do not wear yourself out running around the universe. When the universe is completely contained within you, every place anything could ever possibly wind up will always be within you. Now, if you please, back to the point of when you allow yourself these feelings and you contact this consciousness that does not say anything, would you please go on with that?

**Questioner:** Well, is this is it? I want to talk for this being. All right. Okay. Yes. And I'm very interested in talking with you. All right. And I want to know what I can do to sort of uh All right. Thank you. May I say that the first All right. In a sense, sharing that is being given to you from that being from that consciousness is the idea that as you allow yourself into that state of integration where you can then perceive it but it does not say anything means that really it is your first communication from that being that it is not saying anything is the communication of there is nothing it could say you do not already know. That is the first idea. You have gotten to that state all by yourself. recognize the other consciousness all by yourself, initiated communication all by yourself and find that it really has nothing to say. You do not already know about. That will be the primary communication. Any other communication which comes from that consciousness that you can in a sense hear or understand will only be in a sense then a reduction or a differentiation of that one primary communication that you know everything. Everything from that point forward will only be a matter of the degree of willingness that you wish to create for yourself to know that you do in fact know everything you need to know to live your life completely. And this will be the message of the communication at this time. Now you can begin to get used to the idea that within the silence therefore is contained every answer that you need. Now I would say that is a very creative communication you have created in your life. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Now therefore can you not in that way then if you wish to use the terminology extrapolate every other situation in your life in a way that can connect to this silent communication that you have with this other consciousness.

**Questioner:** Yes. Um it's I guess it's a bit of fear.

**Bashar:** All right. All right. So what you are still creating that it is your own very unique type of fear. Your own very unique creation. It is a wonderful creation. Well see doing in the process of doing all the things that I've been doing in the last week or so. I mean I also get there is a side of something that's that's a has a negative flow to them.

**Bashar:** Yes, of course you have positive and negative energy within you constantly. So what the entire idea is that you are now beginning to be willing to recognize that you are positive and negative energy. And in being willing to admit and allow that you are both then you can consciously make a choice between them. And it becomes very simple. Understand that when you are not willing to allow yourself to contain consciously negative energy then you relegate them to the creations sub and unconsciousness. You create subconsciousness and unconsciousness in which to shove that idea which you do not wish to experience. When you allow yourself to simply say yes, I am positive. Yes, I am negative. So what? No big deal. Now which one do I want to choose? Will positive fight you? Then the negative effect will never occur in your life because you are clearly consciously making a choice and you are an automatic creator and your reality is always very automatic and very simply created by your choices based on your belief about your reality. If within your reality belief you know you contain both positive and negative then it is up to you to consciously make a choice and get on with your life and enjoy yourself. Is it not very simple?

**Questioner:** Um, okay. Therefore, recognize that everything you are giving to yourself is an opportunity to come to terms with your ability in your own very unique way to allow for your own negativity to experience it and grant it beingness. Granted validity and in that way allow yourself to balance out into having complete freedom of choice for anything you wish to do. This is your own very unique path. This life that you have created that is your way of achieving that idea of recognizing the balance within yourself. That is what each and every one of you are. The unique path is this opportunity. You have created this physical reality for to experience yourself in the limited fashion to give yourself the opportunity within physical reality to experience the dichotomy polarization of as you say positive and negative which does not exist in that way in non-physical life. Therefore, this is your own unique expression of yourself in going about discovering how that polarization does all stem from you and is blended on some level. Your conscious says when you accept that it is all within you, then you can make the choice and you will be clairvoyant. That is clear seeing within your own life. Making clairvoyant choices, clearseeing, conscious choices about your life. It is very very very very simple. Are you Thank you. Uh somewhat um in awe. Why? I don't know. I just that uh you just sort of rattle all that off so simply. You know, that is the idea. I I can tell it is very simple. When you allow it to be recognize you are doing nothing wrong. You are only expressing your own very unique path at going about recognizing the balance within yourself. That is why you are you. You are one more idea that all that it has about itself. I guess I don't have anybody to share all this stuff with and I have to

**Bashar:** You have been sharing it with me. I will find you that it builds up during the week and I have to come do you know tell me about all these. All right. But recognizing that when you allow it to be all right for yourself to experience this, it will be all right to attract to yourself many more individuals with whom you can share it because they will also be sharing it with you.

**Questioner:** Oh, cuz I'm losing my best friend. Just how can you lose a best friend? By definition, if they in that way remove themselves from your life, they are not a best friend. Not exactly. Well, our communication in terms of our But you are putting expectations upon what the communication between quote unquote so-called best friends should be.

**Bashar:** Yeah, you're right. Allow yourself to understand that you are always in that way best friends with everyone and best friends with every portion of your own consciousness. Then communication will be freely flowing. Even if it is positive or negative communication, you will understand how it fits into the overall idea of the relationship you have with that information. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Is everybody experiencing this sort of thing right now? Well, go ahead, ask them. Well, no. But I have a lot of energy going around. Jesus.

**Bashar:** All right. You are a lot of energy. Yes. Thank you very much. Thank you.

### Densities and Origins

**Questioner:** Question. I have a question. All right. Yes. You um I had asked you and now I don't remember what you said. Um non-physical life begins normally or normally non-physical life begins in what density or not begins but lives in can be put primarily will always be fifth sixth seventh so on follow me

**Questioner:** yeah so if if after this lifetime I choose to have a non-physical life then I would either be in the fourth density or any of the above or any of the allow me to say that the momentum energy you are in that way creating for yourself is beginning to identify more with this.

**Questioner:** Oh, good. Good. Well, yeah, I know. Why not? All right. My choice.

**Bashar:** Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Uh please talk sometime before we start about my mother and my feelings. My uh I kept putting judgment all the way. I did not take care of her first uh today. And I kept doing this even. I did not tell you not to. We never tell you what to do.

**Questioner:** Thank you. No, thank you very much.

**Bashar:** We share with you as you allow us to share with you reflections of what you tell yourself. Right. Anyway, you have your own free will.

**Questioner:** Thank you very much. It is yours. It is not ours. I put that wrong and Not wrong. Okay. I recognize that for you. Okay. Anyway, uh today, well, in the past, I have still felt very badly about this and um though I didn't want to at times, it has really been bugging me. Oh, does not sound so bug now, does it? What can happen? And I I share it with you and I ask you a question. Um I was sitting at And all of a sudden this came back on me and instead of feeling badly about I felt I just it was like I heard a voice saying it's all right it's fine the way it happened it's okay and I felt a fantastic release on it. Nice. And uh now the question was that my mother or was that my higher consciousness or something else I integrated. What would be your first guess?

**Bashar:** I thought mother. Now what would be your real feeling?

**Questioner:** It was like a combination of of the two of us.

**Bashar:** Very good. So it was because it was such a release that I knew at that moment that I never it was your willingness to be within the higher conscious portion of yourself that could attune to the vibration you recognize as your mother. But you have created it within your higher consciousness for yourself. And that is the only you that can give you that idea of release. Right? But there was in that way the sharing in the guidance. Yes. But also you had created it only for yourself in that way.

**Questioner:** I knew at that moment I knew father. Oh thank you very much. Thank you.

### Numerology and Triads

**Questioner:** Question for sure. Yes. on Monday night when uh Erica and Justin and you were talking you were talking about threes and three times threes and I believe 15s. Could you talk more about that?

**Bashar:** What about it? Do you want me to ravel on about numbers?

**Questioner:** No.

**Bashar:** All right. All right. 9 12 33 Oh, and let's not forget 3,000.

**Questioner:** I didn't I didn't know in terms of rattling about numbers.

**Bashar:** We know. I know but it was very funny. Thank you. Now I'm going to say that what we were describing simply in that way was the recognition of relationship vibrational patterns as many times in that way individual form within what we turn to be trinary or triad arrangements of three to be able always in that sense to know that the triangle forms in your geometry the idea of the most stable complete solid form. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** In that way, this will be represented symbolically through all the energy exchanges in relationships in that sense. In that there will be then the formation in that two will always be able to support the one. You follow me? And that two will always be able to support one. Okay? And in that way it may be different two and different one at different times within the three sum. But understand there will always be the idea that within a trinary there is always in that way a base support for the pinnacle. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Therefore, simply recognize we are also then defining the idea of the magnitude of different idea conglomerates as mass consciousness is created within the building of those triads to form greater triads in that sense as you would understand the term greater. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. This in this way is only a description in what you term to be mathematical sense of the relationship of vibratory patterns within the idea of consciousness as it is grouping together within your civilization and our civilization and the counterpart civilizations partaking of this entire idea of consciousness at this time.

**Questioner:** Well, I've answered your question. Well, so in terms of um Esani, Sirius and Earth, yes, I thought that that's pretty much what you were talking about in terms of the triad at this particular point.

**Bashar:** Understand that in that way we were I say addressing this idea but also understand that for many individuals the meaning was multi-levelled in that way and certain individuals will have understood according to what it was they are experiencing and perceiving in their life and other individuals for them in the same way according to what they are creating for themselves.

**Questioner:** So is that part of the connection I feel with Erica and the channel?

**Bashar:** Yes, in a sense it will be in that way by association. In that sense, a triad association. You may liken it and do that way. A business contract. An association of three in that way. Different groups who form the recognition that within this trinary pattern there will be the ability to fulfill ideas that each wishes to express upon respective worlds and in that way also upon all three. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. By you. Thank you.

### Spirit and Dimensionality

**Questioner:** Question. All right. Yes. Um, as of last week, um, what I allowed you to do to my spirit. Um, I know what I did with it. I'm having a hard time comprehending. um the concept

**Bashar:** perhaps you think it is more complex than that which you already understand.

**Questioner:** No, for me or my for this now that I dimension no reality or earth plane, it's just hard for a person to realize more than he thought he was.

**Bashar:** All right, but not really. Yeah. Understand in that way that this man as you say in the third dimensional plane is also energy. Yeah. And you can relate to yourself in that way and allow yourself to know that in that energy state you are then the idea of knowing and the idea of more than you seem to be in that way. You follow me? Then simply recognize that at this time it is still unfolding in that way and that there will be more and more connections to the dream reality for the purpose of manifesting what you need to know physically. understand that do not need expectation as to the exact nature of timing of the unfolding in the third dimensional sense.

**Questioner:** I realize that um I just want to thank you for boosting my energy

**Bashar:** and we will thank you for being willing in that way to boost your energy in that sense along with us. Thank you.

**Questioner:** Thank you. Yes. Yeah, I'd like to um get back to the three Rock was talking about. Um okay, for me it was then a a triad for Sirius, then who's the third person? If I'm one and Justin's the other one, then who's the third one?

**Bashar:** What is being described by yourself in that way and what is turned to be the consciousness you call Justin will not be a triad in the sense of a restricted triad.

**Questioner:** Oh then I it will be the idea you have expressed as the 12 and the 15. I was right then there and now. Well, I just when you when I said it that night, you didn't seem to let me jump on it or anything, so I didn't think that it was um I had jump on it. I crushed it.

**Bashar:** Yeah, I get it by you. Thank you for allowing me to play straight men. my hero for allowing me to play wishy-washy.

**Questioner:** Yeah. I have a chest. When you mentioned that my parking tickets could be opening up a flow, I was thinking that um I have a lot of opportunities that I could purchase and thereby open the flow in ways that would materially um benefit me more than paying a parking ticket would. Perhaps perhaps not. Well, I'm thinking if if it's the flow that's mainly important here, I can flow it in lots of different ways. All right, go ahead. And I have not been taking the opportunity to u blow it in all those ways that I could. Oh, what? not to uh would it be fair to say I'm going to jump on the word fair, but would it be accurate to say that um if I if I just went ahead and um flowed money and just purchased things that I wanted and needed that uh if you do it within the knowingness that you are not looking over your shoulder waiting for something to catch up to you and that sooner or later you will run out. Uhhuh. Follow me.

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** It is done as a natural act. What you call second nature without the idea of thinking, oh, I have to be careful. This could somehow backfire on me. Somehow this might stop. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** It is something that you simply know you are. You know you are abundance. That which knows itself as abundance does not contain the energy vibration of the idea of not abundance. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Right. Right. Well, there have been times in my life where I have not been forced to blow money. Uh I say use the word force figuratively. All right. Go ahead. But it almost seems like this is kind of well as you said uh forcing me to proate as as similar because now your own transformation is accelerating and in that way you are giving yourself a little kick. Mhm. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yeah. Like it's okay to waste money on tickets. Might as well go ahead and use it.

**Bashar:** It is not a waste. I know I use this. Please understand that these are all figurative. I do understand. All right. What you saying? Thank you. But understand also in that way that when you are within the flow of the understanding the choice of the symbols that you call words will also reflect that flow. You follow me?

**Questioner:** I follow you. flow. You follow me? I follow you. Therefore understand that the choice of the symbols that come automatically to your lips reflect the flow that is there now. Except that I see it on two different levels. I see it on a grander cosmic spiritual level where I totally understand that it's perfect that it's very very valuable. Yes. And I also see from an earthly plane that if you were to evaluate it from earthly, you know, third third density life is a waste. I see both of these levels.

**Bashar:** Well, I choose the the term uh on a third density level because it's more fun. Why? Because it's uh it's a joke. I mean it's a joke when I know then you are being what in your terminology is called zen uh polarity is that a polarity I don't know what that means zen zen zen zen yes I I do know the basic derivation of the term I don't really understand I don't know another word you understand in a way that what you are creating in that way is a shadow

**Questioner:** No.

**Bashar:** And not in that way. Really of substance except as you give it for.

**Questioner:** Yes. Absolutely. All right. And it's fun to play with that. All right. Part of the playing is calling it waste. All right. If you wish.

**Questioner:** Yeah. So I I guess that's all on that subject. [Music] Um, see, I guess it was a couple times ago, uh, you, uh, you, uh, recommended to someone that should make pancakes. Nice. And, uh, just wondering if there would be some way to identify for myself an activity which would Well, since you're being so zen, perhaps you can joke about it. That's true. Would you like to make some joke pancakes? [Music] Probably make some rubber pancakes. Leather. Do you think that making pancakes would be a waste of your time?

**Questioner:** No. But it doesn't seem to me that making pancakes would necessarily be the right activity for me. The right activity for you. All right. What do you think would be a right activity for you? Uh, let's see. I don't know. Probably just fiddling around with my word processor.

**Bashar:** That can be very senior in here. I'm not really totally getting it. We are joking with you. And in that way the idea is that as you have expressed yourself in that way you find that you are at the center of polarity by recognizing in that way as you would say the reality and at the same time the illusion of the creation. Okay. You follow me?

**Questioner:** All right. You say I'm Yeah. In the center of this these apparent holes of reality and illusion. Yeah. I understand that that is in your terminology then a frame of reference that is usually referred to as Zen.

**Bashar:** Okay, got it. By M. Yes.

### Crystals and Communication

**Questioner:** Uh I'd like to talk to you about a crystal. Um I was uh you know you talk sometimes on the Monday night ones about crystals and I had I didn't really have any interest in using the crystal because I don't need the crystals to communicate with who I like to communicate with. I was standing in a bookstore and um by a book and this and I turned around and there was this case full of crystals and and I looked at them just out of idle curiosity and quote unquote and one of them leaked out of me. So I said, "Oh, all right." And I bought it and then I tried putting it on and it just didn't feel right. So I took it off again and the next morning what I realized was my chain was too short. All right. Thank you. One moment please. May I interrupt you? Yeah. Thank you. Hey Zen.

**Bashar:** Yes. Hello. Hello. Realize that you have very creatively made the association in that way through the entire idea we have been sharing with you about what you termed the choice of word. In that way reflecting certain ideas as they pass through you. Your choice therefore to exemplify this idea symbolically again through what you turn to be word processing and also in that way through the idea of the expression of those words as they form your reality through your vocal mechanism which you call your throat and the blocks therein. Okay. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. I'm a writer and uh it's kind of coming clear now. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Yes. Go on. Uh yeah. But anyways, so the next thing I realized the chain was too short and it was making it um land on the wrong place and and I felt that it was supposed to go right here. I I and I just lengthened the chain, you know, so that it would. And then after that, I felt like I was a receiver station or something, you know. I mean, radio and the interesting thing was that I felt like realized none of this has been interesting so far, but now here comes the interesting thing. It was like There were these all these communications coming and then they were being it was um they weren't uh personally for me. I mean they weren't not for me but they were for other people and it was just kind of like if I was a satellite or something you know so that they would come through me and then go out to whoever they needed to be. Do you mean you were tapping in um to a wavelength which is being sent anyway?

**Questioner:** Oh right, right. Yes, definitely. It was um and intended to kind of focus it in some way or something like that. Guys, uh anyway, I just I thought it was real interesting. I just want to know if you have any comments on it. Seems like you also share the idea that you need a crystal.

**Bashar:** Uh no, I don't think I need one, but I guess it's fun. Rely then that neither does anyone else. Well, I know some people um choose Yeah. to create that symbol for themselves in that way for viewing and exploring specific parts of their consciousness as you also it seems chose to do for that specific part of your consciousness. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yeah. I I don't know that well in one manner of speaking everything you do has to do with your unconsciousness. Thank you. Uh, now why does it seem like such a bad thing that you are not willing in that way to simply say yes, that is how I played with that idea.

**Questioner:** All right. Yeah. No, I was just interested in uh what was going on.

**Bashar:** That is what was going on.

**Questioner:** Oh, I just been in all the communication. I guess I just thought Why don't you put the crystal back on and you'll find out. I feel like a ham radio operator.

**Bashar:** Understand that if you are asking me what is going on, you do not have it on. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Oh, yeah. No matter how long you wear it, it can be off if you choose to separate yourself from the idea.

**Bashar:** Right. Right.

**Questioner:** Oh, I No, I guess I just I guess I just wanted a little tidbit from you. I got I got my own stuff on it anyway. I just think it's fun.

**Bashar:** It is. Thank you. Yeah. You may listen anytime you wish.

**Questioner:** Yeah, thank you. Question. Yeah, I have some little statement that you suggested to me that I play around with crystals for the next few months and uh I'm having fun. Oh, thank you. Yeah, just Yeah, it's fun. Um I Yeah, I go to sleep at night with the crystal under under my pillow and stuff. It's just it's just fun. It's like a friend, you know, extra thing. Uh also, I just curious I went a friend of mine. Yeah, a friend of mine has an alarm system set up in his room and so because he's got a lot of musical equipment in there and it's pretty elaborate system so that when some if it's someone were to walk in while it's a particular thing it would make a very loud noise. Now I walked in and it didn't go off and he was all surprised about it and I didn't think much of it but uh but I'm wondering why it didn't go.

**Bashar:** Perhaps the alarm system knew you were not going to steal anything.

**Questioner:** Maybe so. very very smart system. Well worth the money he paid for it.

**Bashar:** Perhaps it was on your part a service to that individual to allow them the opportunity to view that it is all a matter of belief and that they do not need to fear and have such an elaborate alarm system. Otherwise, they are reinforcing the idea that they will only attract that much more clever of a thief. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yeah. He was making kind I wasn't making a big deal that, but he was telling other people, "Gee, Pan, my alarm didn't go off. She must be from another planet or something."

**Bashar:** Oh, I'm a boy. Yes. Would somebody like to tell him where he lives? Where are you from? Everywhere. What planet? What planet? Originally.

**Bashar:** Originally, there is no beginning. Okay. What do you feel an identification to?

**Questioner:** Nothing in particular. Not even Earth, but everything. I I know I'm not from here. I mean, oh, are you saying that out of judgment or out of knowingness? Knowingness. Knowingness? Knowingness?

**Bashar:** All right. But the way you said it first in that way you can say is the most accurate. Nowhere and everywhere. Recognize in that way that in that vernacular no one is original to this planet. No one is original to any planet. The idea of origin from a planet is only an association being made for specific purposes as this has been created also for your own specific purposes and in that way no idea of descendency or origin is in that way eternal as you understand it in that sense. Do you follow me? It is only being created in and of the reality being created in and of the moment for the express purposes being in that way lived out. Therefore, understand that within this particular time of the transformation of your civilization, many individuals will find themselves relating quote unquote to having an origin to a particular other civilization. These will be real, but also they will have to do with the idea of why they are here now and not so much the idea of an ultimate origin because you do in fact come from everywhere and nowhere because you create everywhere. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yeah. And therefore understand it is a matter of identification. If you find yourself identifying with an idea that will be serving the purpose of the unfoldment of why you have chosen to be here. If you find yourself not identifying so what recognizing that way it is not a mark of distinction in that you are more important or less important than you simply would be anyway.

**Bashar:** What prompted the question was you seem to have answered someone else's question the same nature. Yes. because they are simply already willing to know that they have that connection to begin with and they are willing to understand that it simply relates to this physical life as they has chosen it to do. It is not a matter of in that way of dividing their ultimate origin in that sense. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yeah. Okay. Uh and in that way also recognize it is again a degree of willingness to in a sense know that you are not asking so that you can detach yourself from where you have chosen to be. Okay. Well, this is what I want to know then. Okay. I know why I chose this body. What I'd like to know is where this body this body not me but where this body of bodies like this come from. If there is such thing. What do you mean? Your body comes from Earth.

**Questioner:** Um, this body, bodies of different racial descent. Do they all come from Earth?

**Bashar:** There are many different one races throughout the multiverse.

**Questioner:** Do you are you playing with me or do you understand what I'm asking?

**Bashar:** understand in that way that it recognize in that sense the quote unquote intermingling and origins of many different what you turn to be racial types upon your planet as in that way also comingling from different races of other civilizations. Yes, we understand in that way. Okay. But also recognize in that sense that one of the ideas that consciousness in itself created for this particular planet was the idea of a variation of races you will find upon it. And in that sense it is therefore an original idea according to this particular planet for that specific manifestation. You follow me? In other words, though there may be many races as you call them throughout the multiverse, the races that are here are particular to this planet. Even though you may find similarities and in that way recognize perhaps even some identical similarities on other planets, the ones that are here are from here because that serves the purpose of being here. But in that way, recognize that all types of manifestations of what you call races that you have upon your planet Earth do exist on other civilizations. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yeah. Now allow me to say that there was primarily in that way the introduction of the idea all at once from one single source as you would understand it in your framework that you call historically of all of the races that you find upon your planet in that sense as a projection of consciousness from that area you call LRA. You follow me?

**Questioner:** H that's that's what I was asking because I'd already discussed Lero with someone and and I didn't have any idea what it was or what it meant or anything like that but but it's interesting that you mentioned okay basically you've answered my question so have you Thank you. Thank you.

### Pleiadians and Parallel Realities

**Questioner:** Yes. Uh I had an interesting experience a couple weeks ago and I was discussing with an individual the the upcoming plleadian contact in this area and another person interjected and they were coming down on me very heavily. Uh and the gist to what they were saying is don't I feel that the karma of this earth is capable of taking care of itself and don't I feel the plleadenss are kind of violating our privacy by interjecting and all right understand they are not interjecting well no I I defended them on no need to defend them not me but within the context of the conversation I put that aside but while I was this person was talking to me they lost their form I no longer saw their body and um all I saw was like like this kind of blob kind of in the atmosphere floating around throwing a lot of powerful energy at me very negative because I was you know on a taking a different position than them and I want to know you know what happened you know what was going

**Bashar:** it wasn't that rare a conscious recognition of the idea that you are vibrating into another reality so I just no longer chose to to exist in the same plane as him. Is that it in a sense?

**Questioner:** Yes. Okay. I mean, he didn't actually lose his form. Not really. I just turned him off in a sense.

**Bashar:** Okay. Yeah, that's happened to me, too. Well, when I feel really strong about something that I feel for myself anyway point of view or whatever and someone else is like totally in another different point of view and I feel real strong about mine where I'm at that point and not going to be swayed or anything that person will start almost seeming like they're disappearing or kind of like that same kind of a feeling.

**Bashar:** Again understand that this is what we have described as the mechanism that when out of knowingness you simply allow yourself to relate to the vibration that you are. There will arrive at that time the idea of the split of the parallel idea of your planet in that sense. Those that way according to the reality that others vibrate to will simply in that way begin to exist in parallel dimensions. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. You may take a short break. Thank you.

### Energy and Tiredness

**Questioner:** Question. Yeah. I would like to comment. Go ahead. Hi. About to get in the atmosphere. Nice. I found something that a person can do if they're having a problem with being tired. Oh, what? Last night, um, I've been tired all day. We haven't done anything. I was at a friend's house. And so, I took my life force, my energy that I was projecting out and projected inward to supply my body more. And for drinking out and it seemed to help.

**Bashar:** I thank you. Very good. There will be in that way then the offering of the suggestion of a myriad number of ways in which individuals who feel that the energy of their own creativity in that sense is as it quote unquote channels through ideas you have created that you call blocks and allows there to be friction and tension which in that way will increase the ideas you call tiredness. You can always understand that that energy is the source I say of you and from you and in that way can always realize that you are ultimately supported in that way by the same energy that you deem to be also creating the tiredness and in that sense you can create the polarity for yourself of that energy which will allow you to recognize yourself at the center and the source and therefore to remove all ideas in that sense of being tired. Thank you very much.

**Questioner:** One more question. All right. Okay. The night before this um experience happened last week, I think um your presence was felt as the music was playing. I felt your presence very strong. As I went to turn the music off, your presence left. Um I was something to channel you as um a cousin channel here now but um I wasn't able to connect the um all right thank you realize in that way it will not be for the manifestation as you presently perceive it from the physical channel before you that you will be able in that way to touch that energy but to form your own doorway way gate to that idea energy which we express within our civilization and as such simply form for yourself one more doorway gate to many ideas and civilizations to which you will and are becoming aware of your connections too. In that way simply it will be the energy essence itself and not the specific idea of consciousness that you require at this time.

**Questioner:** I realize that your energy um I may not be able to channel it as Daryl does, but um the person that I did channel uh the night before that experience um without my father person was given me the channel did not come into me Now he was more spoon than his own.

**Bashar:** It was to some degree in a sense, now follow me. It was to some degree, in a sense, the idea of creating an alternate viewpoint of yourself in an alternate dimensional reality, shifting into that reality of yourself, allowing that reality to shift into you so as to understand in that way. This idea we have explained to you of the malleability of your physical form in that sense. and the ability you have to in a sense step aside or step out of that limitation. You follow me? And in that way it can be viewed as the idea the idea in that sense of a guiding energy, a guiding consciousness and may be looked on as in that sense the idea of fatherness in the same way that you will be giving yourself the idea of birthing many more crystalline facets of yourself through which you may then relate to many of these doorways you are creating. And always allow yourself to view yourself through many of these other perspectives so as again not to continue to create the idea of limitation that you have been exploring and experimenting with.

**Questioner:** I know a person channels constantly by them. Ever since the um I stopped using the tape, I'm more aware of my channel constantly. Um now I'm telling every moment of our meeting.

**Bashar:** Yes, understandably. But when you allow yourself the opportunity to recognize any other physiological symbol as only a tool and simply recognize that you have direct access to the idea anyway then you will understand you are always as you say channeling you are always dreaming you will begin to live and I'll say become the dream become the energy itself and so will always feel that you are yourself always in that sense a channel which you are your reality is always being channeled by you

**Questioner:** what um there's a way of um bringing this in bringing the dream state into a thirddimensional reality.

**Bashar:** There are many ways. This is one way I'm able to um perceive it. Yes, this for you then will again be one of the tools and will still find itself on another level as you simply become it rather than in that way still forming the tool. You are I'll say again progressing within that idea by creating these other facets these other stepping aside communications with other portions in that way other consciousness as you have I'll say allow yourself to relate to it you will find it is all part and parcel of this idea of allowing your dream reality in that way to then determine the idea of your physicality and as such be unlimited.

**Questioner:** Yes. Thank you. question. I'd like to share that for the past couple of months. Um, I've been feeling a lot of vibration and I' I've kind of shared this before too. And that especially uh on Monday night, I noticed that when when Daryl got hit or when when there was a lot of shaking and stuff, I felt very almost like I was getting almost all the vibrations my body. And the same thing just happened as you went back and it as as you started up again my hands got real real hot. Yes. And what came to my mind was about two years ago I was in a church. I was just exploring with some friends. They were born again and there was a healing session and I remember as as the guy was laying on hands these guys were getting bolts of energy and I was sitting in my chair going I getting the zaps too. And so I just um seems like one of my things here is that I I guess I'm real real sensitive or real receptive to energies.

**Bashar:** Yes. So I just wanted to share that. Thank you very much. It is a part of the idea of what you need in your toolkit to be an Earth server. That sensitivity.

**Questioner:** Thank you. Thank you. Question. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Um about uh 3 weeks ago I put my purse band by my couch and it disappeared and later I found it under a pillow and I was just wondering what happened.

**Bashar:** Would you like to repeat that?

**Questioner:** I put my purse down. It disappeared and it you found it under a pillow. That is what happened. I mean good grief. You know, things don't just Good. Greed, right? Greed can't be good. No. Things don't just disappear in They don't not Not usually. Not usually. Did I make that happen? Did something come along? Did it go in another dimension? Why? Where did it What happened? Why are you gay? Because I I'm interested in things like that.

**Bashar:** You are? Yes. Don't play with me. I want to know this. Have you not been exploring many of the ideas of abundance?

**Questioner:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** Have you not? Then also explore the idea of giving yourself the opportunity to recognize that nothing can really be taken from you. Yeah. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** Then why can you not imagine that you are creative enough to do it in that way?

**Questioner:** Well, I guess I can imagine it. Yes. Well, I guess I can imagine it. Yes. Yeah, I can imagine it. I can imagine it.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Then that is why.

**Questioner:** All right. Well, thank you very much. All right. Well, thank you very much. You're welcome. I have a couple of other questions. Okay. Is it okay? Yeah, it's okay. Yeah, may I ask a question first? Sure. Do you feel that you answered your first question?

**Questioner:** Then I answered it. Um. All right. All right. We will play the separation game. Do you feel I answer it? No, I don't. Thank you. Doesn't feel satisfying to me. Does not feel satisfying. Thank you, man. Why not? Well, I guess you were saying maybe I didn't understand the answer. It seems like you were saying that I caused that I was showing myself things can't be taken away from me as I'm exploring the idea of abundance. Now, are you telling me that with all the exploring of abundance that you have been doing that that idea does not excite you?

**Questioner:** Oh, yeah. That excites me.

**Bashar:** Yeah. All right. Why do you feel that is not gathering your question? cuz I well and that's a funny way to show myself.

**Bashar:** Well, you are a very funny person.

**Questioner:** I'm also really neat.

**Bashar:** Yes. Okay. Now, I got to ask you some lovely questions. So, I don't want to take any more time. Take any more time. We have unlimited time as we know time. Okay. today. Well, first of all, there's this essence, this essence from another planet that some friends of mine have discovered over the heels of Sandale, and I wondered if you could tell us anything about that. They're in communication with them, and I'd like to know like where they're from, and if they are in communication with them, why don't they tell you?

**Bashar:** Maybe they have. All right. What is your next question?

**Questioner:** Oh god, that's not a good answer.

**Bashar:** It is a perfect answer.

**Questioner:** Okay, that was perfect. But I wanted some more perfect answer. Then create them for yourself.

**Bashar:** Then create them for yourself. Oh god. Now you have just sat there told me. I have friends who are in communication with this essence. Now why? If they are in communication with this essence, can they not provide you with these answers you're asking me?

**Questioner:** Well, because it's a limited communication.

**Bashar:** Oh, limited. Yeah, they don't. Why is it limited? What is it limited to? What do they say? Simply yes. No. Yes. No. Yes. [Music] What do they say? They said they said, well, my friend said to them, um, I'd like to feel your energy. Yes. And so they felt they felt some energy. All right. Then they said, is it okay to enter your space? And they said, yes. Okay. If you like, if you can recognize them, then uh then it's okay to enter a space. But I like to know where they're from. Then why don't you also go enter their space?

**Questioner:** All right, then. Okay, I will. Next week, I'll report to you.

**Bashar:** All right. What happened? You have all the answers when you allow yourself to do and act and be, not sit and wonder why. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yeah. Then go out and do it.

**Bashar:** Okay, I will. That's great. Thank you. Oh, you like that answer?

**Questioner:** Yeah, I think it's me. Yeah, I like what answer. [Music] This is my friend Sharon today. This girl sitting here next to me, she had a towel on her floor in her car. She got out and parked the car and left. She came back and the towel was up on the dashboard and maybe you could I don't have an answer for that, but maybe Oh, maybe the towel has been hanging around with your purse. [Laughter] Yeah, maybe. Oh, thank you. My new wife got a question. Thank you. Okay, I have a comment and a question. During the break I was um talking about think think about what you said about using the word ways um also especially the vibration of an instance like that and the difference for me is since I do view do things from a Zen viewpoint to use your term when I use the word waste it doesn't have the same vibration that other people may give it when they use it because when I use it it's a different meaning. All right. So anyway, I just wanted to express that because it um it was good. Thank you very much.

### Crystals: Quartz vs. Lead

**Questioner:** Uh question is in regard to crystals um you refer to them as symbols and I'm trying to sort out and understand the difference between a symbol which is just nonfunctional or which can be viewed as non-functional and a symbol which is functional.

**Bashar:** We say that all symbols are functional. Okay. Otherwise, what purpose is there in creating the symbol?

**Questioner:** Well, that's a good that's a good point. Um, I'm thinking about mechanically functional. I'm trying to understand this. So, it's almost as though in one at one time you say, well, it's a symbol and you can do without the crystal whatever you can do with it. Yes. Uh at the same time you seem to say or the experiences of those people who have shared their experiences seem to say that with the crystal they seem to do more than without it because they are willing in that way to recognize their own power through the use of that symbol first you right. So then you could recognize your power without a crystal.

**Bashar:** Yes of course. But is there any reason to have a crystal in order to do that?

**Questioner:** Ver can be as you create a reason to do so.

**Bashar:** Yes. Okay. Good. I did get a crystal as I as I said last week and it's been interesting. I've used my imagination as you uh suggested. Um came up with this question. Let me see if I can Oh, yes. Um I got the idea that a crystal could be used kind of as a energy battery of some sort.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** Uh, and I get the idea also that we haven't made full use of that technology on this planet that it can either it either has in its um essence a whole lot more energy or else it can contain and be filled with a whole lot more energy than we have been able to get it to do. Yeah, I see. How do you do it?

**Bashar:** There may be many different ways. Mhm. Understand first of all that one way will be to create the crystal out of such materials as you would understand to be a combination in your terms of something similar to what you turn to be carbon magnesium. In that way, this will have the property of allowing there to be an alignment within the timate that will cause an action of light itself and a storage of light itself and a dispersion of light itself in various transformational forms of energy so as to act in that way as both receiver, store and dispenser at the same time. This will be one way. Another way will simply be that you can know in that way that for specific purposes as you create them to exist you may simply use your consciousness to do anything.

**Questioner:** If I want to power a space or something like that um I mean I can conceive right now I'm imagining yeah would be possible to with one's consciousness power a spacecraft.

**Bashar:** Uh all right. All right. What we have just described to you in that way will be one in your terminology typical form of crystal that will allow there to be a collection of what you term to be starlight which will be transformed into the vibrational what you say microwave frequency responsible for creating the limbo disconnect field around the craft. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. Uh, has this uh carbon magnesium uh kind of crystal been uh grown on this planet?

**Bashar:** Nope.

**Questioner:** Uhhuh. Um, how would I go about doing that?

**Bashar:** Understand that at this time it will take an understanding of what eternally a cold fusion process which you do not yet have. It will also involve the idea of what you call high pressure of which you cannot yet attain in your technology. when you first introduction into call the idea of manufacturing crystals in space that is in no gravity environment vacuum environment as you would term those I'll say environments to exist you will begin to perceive the idea of how crystallin structures can arrange themselves in such a way so as to have the property of resonating more purely with certain energies that to you are now in a sense invisible and in that way you can then from that point proceed to understand how they also store those energies and thus lead yourself to the understanding of how these particular elements can be refined to such a degree and blended to such a degree that they work for this function for you. You can see uh now understand that in terms of the creating of this particular effect as you would understand it of what you say to be preliminary version of spacecraft is not necessary.

**Questioner:** Okay. Would would there be something that would uh substitute that we had in our tech technology?

**Bashar:** The idea you may explore right now is the idea of rotation. The idea of what you term to bay, your copper when rotated, perhaps also blended with your magnesium when rotated in that way at specific frequencies, rates of motion, you will find that will be the generation to some degree of similar fields which you may then explore from that point. 2300 RPM of that. Yes. Okay. Thank you. One moment. There was another question.

**Questioner:** Yeah, probably me. I've been asking it all evening. Um, I noticed that, um, evening. Um, I noticed that, um, listening to you on tape, um, there's a resonance of extra energy there that I never noticed before. And uh also this evening I see and hear it in your in the voice and I was wondering if you're stepping up more of a energy gradient.

**Bashar:** Very good. Understand this will be a manifestation of what was termed last I'll say on the night of your time the idea of stepping through a barrier making a breakthrough in your terminology when the level understanding of consciousness of yourself in a mass conscious sense now that portion of yourself that belongs to that mass consciousness can recognize that energy facet within us since you also now vibrate on the same level. Uhhuh. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. And that's probably the reason why I've been doing more traveling. Nice. And uh I'm not sure where I'm going, but I'm having a lot of fun doing it.

**Bashar:** Oh, thank you. Continue by all means.

**Questioner:** And I've been feeling that uh um I've really been going through a lot of things with this thick thing. And I have some cats. Um five. Well, I have four now cuz one of them disappeared. I can't find any. And purse and the towel. Never mind. Never mind. I don't know where it is. I'm feeling a loss of it though because I've had oh now now now now is an opportunity for you to extend those senses into the idea of the connection you know is never broken. And instead of feeling a loss by feeling that oh I have to stay where I am. You can in that way journey with the animal. extend your senses and know there is no separation.

**Questioner:** Okay. Thank you. Yeah. Now, what I was going to say was um my cats, a lot of them got sick and um I was talking to Steve and he indicated that um they were more or less picking up Yes. some of the stuff that I would normally have. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Well, now they're not doing it cuz I asked him not to cuz I'll handle it. I want to see them sick.

**Bashar:** Thank you. And now I'm experiencing it. Lack of sleep and sick and nauseous and all right. You are simply acclimating to the energy. It will be all right.

**Questioner:** Yeah, I feel yourself. Oh, very good. Thank you. All right. Thank you. All right. Your question. I have two questions. One, it was about the um the crystals. I What's different between quartz and um lead crystals? And can you comment on the two of those cuz that's about you know kind of popular crystals that are around now the legend um quartz crystal and when you get through with that I'll ask you my next question

**Bashar:** in that way simply understand that the idea will be as in many of what you turn to be your industries the introduction of I'll say what are called impurities to allow there to be a flow of energy through the crystal in certain ways that are not in that sense natural to it. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Sure. Are you sure? You they manufacture the crystals. So the introduction of the idea of what you turn to be the lead will in that sense allow there to be a manifestation of the energy in ways so as to pertain more to the physicalized elements in that sense and allow there to be a softer transition from physical into the idea of the accelerated light body. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Like a conductor.

**Bashar:** Oh, okay. Oh, like a conductor. It is also symbolically the idea of a shield from certain the idea of radiation in that way so that you can proceed through the transformation acceleration of your own radiation in that way safely.

**Questioner:** That is a symbol cuz I have lots of quartz um crystals at home but I have made lead crystal or I have a lead crystal something or other but not a lead crystal that I would wear and I didn't know the other day I was having some problems with my arm or something and I went to sleep with the crystal on my hand and the next day the arm was swell.

**Bashar:** Well, then you did not have a problem. Thank you. The crystal didn't do anything. You did by using the symbol in that way.

**Questioner:** Right. Okay. Thank you. Okay. And my question was um just like the gentleman over to uh our left um you're right. Um for like 5 months I've been having pretty good time with my life. And then this last month um I didn't feel depressed and everybody was you know using throwing the word around heavy. And I didn't feel heavy. And I did kind of come up with the word I felt unrested. Not that I wasn't tired. I wasn't tired. I then I came up with the word tonight that I think that I think it's a statement question. Go ahead. I'm just pretty much um just accepted things and the things are accepted.

**Bashar:** I think then you are in that sense at rest. And by being in that type of rest, you gain infinite momentum.

**Questioner:** Yeah, I it's kind of interesting. This last month I've been doing nothing. I've been watching every movie that has been produced and this last month I've watched everything. I've gone to every restaurant in LA and I haven't done any reading or anything. And yesterday I picked up a new book to read. First time in a month I'd really done anything. So it's like I'm for a month I was on hold.

**Bashar:** Not really. Understand you were simply exploring in a different way. Recognize that as you now allow yourself to bring into physical focus, as you in a sense continue with a seeming old pattern, in that way of getting back on to certain ideas you recognize that you were doing before that time, you will bring with you completely new you. You follow me. than you have before.

**Questioner:** Yeah, I noticed that when I when I get a book, I usually get into the book and totally forget my life. And now that I got the book, I've never I've read like one page out of it in two days and then I don't ever do that. I usually end up reading half the book in two days. Why?

**Bashar:** No, we are not saying you will not be able to enjoy a book ever again. But you will understand in that way that you are beginning to recognize that there is a blending between your imagination and your physical reality. Thank you.

### The Planet Gray and Thought Patterns

**Questioner:** Um I asked you once before about the Christmas and you gave me the name but I don't I can't find your name.

**Bashar:** There was no real name. Understand? We were saying that it is called in that way by many different civilizations, many different things. But they all basically equate to the idea that it is a solidification of consciousness that can be experienced within that planet. You follow me? What are you feeling?

**Questioner:** Well, I I was tired of it and I'm trying to figure out the solidification of being part of it.

**Bashar:** Oh, why? Can you imagine yourself to be there?

**Questioner:** Oh, yeah.

**Bashar:** How do you feel? Great. Would you like to name the planet Gray? Would you like to name the planet Gray? Okay. Then that will be his name for you. All right. Understand it is the idea itself. Oh, physically manifesting your imagination within the field of that planet. It is a fourthdimensional reality in three dimensions. You follow me? No idea. In other words, in your physical threedimensional self, you recognize that the ideas that manifest as your reality takes time to do so and in a sense do not always reflect exactly the pictures that you create. Whereas in that way, as you I'll say, leave the physical body and fourthdimensional non-physical reality. In other words, as you die or as you astral project, you understand that you are a thought form within a world of thought forms and that anything you have a thought of becomes the instant reality around and about you completely solemnly perceived but understood to be in that way created by you. And the instant you change your thought, the reality around you changes. This planet, this crystal and structure will have been created in that way. so as to physically experience this idea of the malleability of creating your reality round about you from your thoughts instantly. Therefore, it is a three-dimensional representation of a fourthdimensional concept. It is therefore a focus point, a nexus point of those two, I'll say plains of existence. for you. for you. All right. Go ahead.

**Questioner:** Well, speaking of thought, is there a pattern of thought that one could could be more comfortable following? Uh I guess what I'm asking is is is there exists more than one thought sort of simultaneously. Is there a safer pattern or a safer?

**Bashar:** Oh, you are asking the right thing because you are showing yourself in that way that you are still assuming that the thoughts that you have are not safe.

**Questioner:** Not exactly. What I am assuming however there is an assumption here is that there often times I have simultaneous or one is slightly a smidgen that never mind. Go ahead. One is slightly a smidgen before the other. All right. Is it normally more of a safer or do you mean would you be following your instinct if you went by the first thought rather than the second?

**Bashar:** Thanks. Thanks. That's exactly what usually. Yes. Usually. Yes. Usually, but not all the time. Not necessarily. It will depend on what you are creating for yourself. You follow me? Which you mean then if your first thought would be a negative one and your second one would be a positive one, then it wouldn't be understand that the idea of thought in and of itself is always in that way. I'll say after after feeling which is always after belief which is always after knowing which is always after existence. Therefore, understand it is not your thoughts that you are in that way sensing as being an intuition. It is a feeling. It is a belief, a knowing. In that way, that always comes first. What you are recognizing is that you have a knowingness, but then you create a thought which separates you from that knowingness. And it is the thought that comes later. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** Therefore, you may have an overall knowingness that you contain the polarity of positive and negativity, but then you may in that way then create from your belief system through your feelings the idea of a thought that gives you the opportunity then to experience one before the other, one after the other so as to reflect back to yourself back with I'll say within your knowingness, you are then exploring.

**Questioner:** So then you're saying that it doesn't really matter which one comes through for a second, but that you will and it does not really matter which one you follow because they all lead again back to the same place. You you follow me.

**Questioner:** Um this is this is right on the tip of my while while we're here. Um there's this incredible thing that happens to me every time this what this incredible thing that happens. credible. Okay, this credible thing. Thank you. Since it happens, it must be credible. Otherwise, it would not be happening. Is there some sort of symbolism for every every meeting that we've had or a session or whatever when I have asked a question with my

**Bashar:** Oh, you are catching on. [Laughter] It's sort of like don't depend on the tape anymore because I just can't get the damn thing to work anymore. Every for like four weeks now, every time I I'm in the middle of asking you a question and getting the answer or whatever, my damn tape stop. Do you see how powerful you are? And I go home every time I leave it. I think or next week I'm going to bring it up and the next week it happened but I don't look down but I just happen to look down the damn thing cut off again. But you already answered your question. You already answered that question earlier. I did about talking to to the consciousness that doesn't answer you because it's reflecting the idea that you already know everything. Therefore, what reason do you have to take what you already know? It is one more symbol that you have created to tell yourself the same thing.

**Questioner:** Well, you know there is a reason that there is a reason that I do take sure there is maybe I'll need to hear it again to sort of hear it again. [Laughter] [Music] [Music] You yourself are a perfect tape recording machine. You can replay and recreate anything you wish at any time. You forget nothing.

**Questioner:** I believe that. It's just that sometime it is a convenience and uh convenience.

**Bashar:** But understand that the idea of your convenience comes from the judgment of expectation as to when you think you should experience it according to how your life is unfolding. You will experience it exactly when you need to.

**Questioner:** Okay. That I believe I'm like the lady over here. You know, every week you leave me with a with so much I get a lot of answers and I get so much doubt with the answers until I'm I'm sort of like Jesus, I have to go through the next whole week.

**Bashar:** Thank you very much. Are you tired of creating that doubt then? Finally.

**Questioner:** Yes, I am.

**Bashar:** Thank you. You may stop now. No, thank you for you have created in that way the reason for your fatigue by finally showing yourself that it is a great deal of work to continually create doubt about what you already know. Thank you. One moment. One moment. One moment. I will. I will. You're so humorous. Very good. Understand that way that laughter will be the centering of all portions of your consciousness. Thank you. All right. It was the same fantastic. I um was I was real excited about having this um channeling with um I go over there um the other day and um I she I brought my machine and she um I she I brought my machine and she said, "Oh, use my machine. It's really great." So I, you know, waiting for machine and I get home that night and long story, but I ended up spending night in my car. So I had nothing to do from 12:00 midnight to 6:00 in the morning lay in my car. So I put the tape in to listen to it and it didn't work. I had to turn up all the way it could possibly go to hear anything. And it and every time I spoke it sounded like a monster went and her speaking was okay, I can hear it. But it was and in just hearing what gentleman said, he said to him, it made me think of like we already know it all. So why should I even need a tape recorder? Why you listen to me? [Music] But I'll say listen to yourself. Jesus [Applause] [Applause] [Music] I just thought I'd throw that out.

**Bashar:** You will excuse me if I do not catch it.

**Questioner:** No, it's sort of like one of those things where you listen to yourself talk and you go through all those negativisms and all of that and you sort of contradict yourself like I do often when I'm talking to you and so it's just sort of a a habit I guess.

**Bashar:** All right. Very good. Yes. Just say this and I don't want to listen. All right. Now, if you don't like that habit, then change it.

**Questioner:** No. Oh, habits are hard to change. Bad. I wanted to say that. I said it for you. Thank you. I don't have to. Thank you. But they are. Could you give us some tips on how to change them?

**Bashar:** All white if you wish. Are you ready? I don't understand. Oh, you do? By all means. Tell me what I am going to say.

**Questioner:** No, I don't. Tell me.

**Bashar:** Oh, yes, you do. Tell me. Stand up and sit down.

**Questioner:** Oh, I wasn't going to say that.

**Bashar:** But that is a very good idea. [Music] If I tape it, still won't work. I'm not getting it anyway. There isn't something I could laugh about tomorrow.

**Bashar:** Do you mean you cannot laugh about it tomorrow if your tape is not working? What has your tape got to do with whether you laugh about it tomorrow or not?

**Questioner:** Oh, I just remember at all.

**Bashar:** Oh, very good. For understanding the creating of that sequential thought, you are creating the entire situation for yourself at that moment anyway. Therefore, go ahead and laugh. Thank you. Thank you. That is my suggestion. Laugh. Okay. I just wondered I just want to follow through on how to how you change bad habits. Laugh.

### Recharging and Spacecraft

**Questioner:** I have a question. I recently met someone in the last week who um as we get together or talk over the telephone, we have a our unfoldment has uh speeded up considerably and it's like we recharge one another. Um and in the recharging of an energy, are we just using one another's energy to recharge or is it almost the type of energy that would be a crystallin type of energy that we're recharging one another off of?

**Bashar:** You are recharging yourself. But understand you are first creating the idea that you need recharging. Mhm. Okay. You are always charged and simply you are using each other as a symbol to remind yourself that you are always charged. Thus you feel you become recharged. I think you are charging yourself.

**Questioner:** Okay. But you are doing it through friendship.

**Bashar:** Yes. which is a very loving thing. Yes. which is a very loving thing. Okay. Thank you. Two Two questions getting you know kind of related to tape recorder. Why in a couple instances when Daryl can see your cars do the relay switches switches what the relay?

**Bashar:** Understand there will be simply a similarity for one portion of the consciousness of the physical medium, one portion of the consciousness of the other individual to whom that occurred that they will be exploring together. Thus they will be able to forge this exploration by finding in your terminology metaphysical common ground. Oh, come ground. Oh, come ground. [Music] You following?

**Questioner:** Yeah, sure. And second question, what is the crystal sea?

**Bashar:** Are you referring to the planet?

**Questioner:** Not the planet. There's a crystal sea that discusses that has to be crossed in between here and the Plleades. All right. All right. There is within this idea the description that four in a sense different areas of space which represent the areas where certain consciousness resides. Then there is an extension of that consciousness in such a way as to actually to a degree truly put its imprint upon the basic fabric energy. from which all is created. And in this way you will find that. But the Palladians being of very high crystalline nature in that sense extend their consciousness in that way unto the fabric of space and time. So that there is quite a different idea of space in that area in that local. And upon a spacecraft entering that area, then there must be the total identification of the vibration with that crystallin I'll say oric field or there will be no entering into their sphere of reality. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yeah. for you. Thank you. One statement about a month or so ago before we launched our last uh space shuttle, I asked you one of the tests they were doing to find out if there was a black hole within our near vicinity and you said uh yeah, they would find one and and it was announced the other day that they did in fact find a black hole.

**Bashar:** They would question. Yes. Uh actually this is would question. Yes. Uh actually this is a kind of a comment experience that I wanted to share as I've been um exploring my own abilities and power and and growth as a being. Um I've been realizing how how powerful I am without having to physically do things. And the guy who fixes my car was asking me how I advertise. He basically wanted to excuse me enhance his business. I had the idea that well this guy does good service for me. I would like to serve him to enhance his business and at that moment I got the thought well there's nothing I don't have to do anything physical just having conceived this his business will automatically increase like you now that individual may then choose to receive the offering of that very loving gift and it will be up to them then to identify with that vibration but you have sent the vibration of that idea and that is your loving gift And that is how you do help. All right. By offering that vibration for them to choose or not to choose, but by offering. Thank you. Thank you. For sure. Dash.

### Presence and Ship

**Questioner:** Are you Are you uh I feel your your presence you Are you uh I feel your your presence here much more than I have in the past. As if you're actually Oh, you are all very sensitive tonight, aren't you? as if you're actually here rather than than transmitting from your your planet.

**Bashar:** Yes. Well, really, Well, really, thank you. Question.

**Questioner:** All right. You can you Okay. What facilitated that uh this that Steve just spoke of um your your greater presence here? The just All right. Not just but is it our is it our greater willingness because of a the transformation or is it something that you've done on your side?

**Bashar:** Um both could you elaborate on that? Allow me simply to say only for now but my ship is within the vicinity of your system. [Music] So does that such a bearing? Does that have such a bearing? I mean that big understand in that way that if you are sensitive to the idea that it makes a difference then yes.

**Questioner:** Oh I get it. Did it have something to do with Monday night?

**Bashar:** Yes. Why are you there are in that way then the opportunity to experience within the system itself within your own version of the crystal sea the exact vibration and so to take readings in that way as you would understand it.

**Questioner:** Can you give a distance instrument that you specialist?

**Bashar:** It will be at this time approximately what you turn to be 300,000 of your miles.

**Questioner:** Will you be coming any closer in the neighborhood? Will you be You will not mind if I do not walk [Music] the Christmas. Will you be coming any closer? Were you not passing over anyone?

**Bashar:** Not at the present time.

**Questioner:** Were you closer last week?

**Bashar:** Not in physical terms, but in astral.

**Questioner:** Oh, Saturday. Um, myself and two of my friends were feeling um a negativity presence. Um well there nothing here and we understand what you're saying. Um there were for you in that way the experiencing of certain doorways that I'll say preceded the wave front of the transformation that took place Monday of your time. Okay. um was um was um a person at the um place where we were at. Um we were discussing um a problem that he has in physical terms and the fact that he tries he doesn't acknowledge it and he also um takes this information at this time will not be available. There will be much in that way to be experienced yet. Thank you. the shot. So, go ahead.

**Questioner:** I was I was just going to ask you about a month ago, I saw what I thought was exciting from my own. It was in a like a cloud, like it was at night time, but it was just a little bit lighter. It was like a lighter density traveling across the sky. density traveling across the sky. And uh I was wondering do do they do like if they want you to see the spaceship they'll let you right?

**Bashar:** It is not a matter in that way of letting you. It is a matter of you allowing yourself to acclimate to the same vibration. Understand that the idea is still from them an offering. They may offer. You do not have to accept.

**Questioner:** Oh no. I understand. I have not right. I have one more question in the um oh I think about in January or something like that I had asked you how um you move objects and you said uh that information was not available at that time. Is that still the same thing or in that sense? Do you mean with regard to the idea of how our spacecraft travel?

**Questioner:** Um, no. Um, I've got that. I'm wondering how like if I wanted something to move across the room without touching it, it will be much the same idea. Follow me. It is the idea that objects as you create them contain also the idea of the cumulative properties that you give them which makes them that object. No, location is one of those properties. Space is not really something in which an object resides. Space is a part of the property of that object. Change that locationational space, you change the object.

**Questioner:** Uhhuh. Great. Play with B for now. Thank you. I will. So, it's like spacecrafts don't travel. They just go from there just at this point and then if you perceive that they're at another point.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** If if if I would perceive that I moved something, would that necessarily indicate or would that would other people notice that it was moved?

**Bashar:** Yeah, maybe. Understand? At this time, allow me to say that within the mass consciousness as it exists right now, there would be the greater chance that they would.

**Questioner:** Yes. I still, you know, at night remember that night five months ago. Yes. That leaf. Yes. Really good. When it no longer becomes important, perhaps then you will do it. But again, simply recognize that it is timing, timing, and more timing. when we move things with our hands. Uh, is this not actually the same concept?

**Bashar:** Oh, thank you very much. Was wondering when someone would say that. Yes, it is much the same concept. It happened that I said it then because it was the right timing. [Laughter] Why did you all die? Why did you all die? We're using our consciousness to move our hand. And we can also use our consciousness to move a cup without you are using your consciousness to create the entire idea that you have a physical reality at all. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yeah. Therefore, everything within it is an act of your consciousness.

**Bashar:** Yes. I was going to discuss this and it's perfect timing. Oh, right. Which has to do with that same thing. I was he was talking about the um the crystals and the copper and the spaceships and everything. Whenever we talk about spaceships, I I have this one particular concept about about them and it it has something to do with just being very conscious of everything and you just sort of become the thing and then and then it occurs that you conceive yourself to be. Is that is that sort of fourth density attitude?

**Bashar:** Yes. Not sort of. It is. It seems very real.

**Questioner:** Oh, yes, it is. Thank you. Oh, one moment. One moment. One moment. One moment. Go ahead. Uh, which which is a different one. Uh, which which is a different one. Um, Daryl occasionally is a channel for Ship. Yes. There it is. Okay. And then the other night there were a few other individuals who are um in contact and becoming uh that also are there at this time on this plan this planet anyone else who actually channels uh this area energy?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** Oh interesting. What what area of the planet does it occur?

**Bashar:** No I do not. Okay. One moment. Did you get to ask the question you wanted to ask my tapeless friend?

**Questioner:** Well, no. I I didn't want to hog up the room, actually. Hog. Go ahead. Ask the question. I guess Jesus, I'm not Never mind. Anyhow, what I did want to know is the guy over here, I don't know if Yeah. Mark. Mark. Mark some weeks ago talked to you about Earth Serve. Yes. And uh Oh, you find an identification with that vibration, do you?

**Questioner:** It's been real. Well, when I finished college quite a few years ago. Yes. Well, in our time. Yes. Yes. I had that attitude of uh I'm going to go out and save the world.

**Bashar:** Oh, earth server does not have attitude of saving the world. Okay. Has attitude of serving the world.

**Questioner:** Okay. Well, it's sort of a misrepresentation of an understanding that I didn't get. Okay. So what I am asking is here of late I have sort of the direction that I'm going toward seems to be more like I was when I did when I finished college good quite a few years ago. Pretty good. And it's like right now I'm doing some research which I'm using myself as the guinea pig so to speak to see if this stuff works or to see you mean guinea hog. Okay. Oh my [Music] god. Okay. At any rate, uh I didn't I I'm I'm real curious to know if the vibrations or the movements in which I'm flowing toward now, does that have a connection? I'm I'm you know, this earth server thing is beginning to really sort of have some significance.

**Bashar:** Thank you very much. Will you now do me a favor? Oh, go ahead. Say yes.

**Questioner:** Okay.

**Bashar:** Thank you, Mark. Yes. Will you learn later on of your time as you count time to exist, share a conversation and explore this idea together with each other? Thank you. Thank you both very much. All right. My turn. Yes. just just [Music] um for a while now. All right, there'll be a few more minutes of your time.

### Symbolism of Oil and Filters

**Questioner:** Um for a while, my car's been using up a lot of oil. And uh I even had a different engine put in and it still uses up a lot of oil and the mechanic doesn't quite know what um is going on except tomorrow I'm going to bring it in and then he's going to put an oil pump in and he's not going to charge me for it because he can't even figure out where this looks like. But um I guess in well this must be symbolic in my life about of something this use of this burning of this oil except that I'm ready to be whatever that symbol is. I'm ready to be done with it.

**Bashar:** You were fine in that sense then that the pump will solve it.

**Questioner:** Oh great. That's what I was thinking. Yeah. Thanks. Thank you. That was interesting because I got a brand new truck and uh and the the uh filter stopped my my truck stopped and I oh Christ what's happening here u and I had to have it sewed in and the oil filter itself and I and I I kept trying to pinpoint some sort of symbolism with

**Bashar:** Does that not seem rather blatant?

**Questioner:** Well, that was at a time. That's just funny she should mention this because I realized what happened. Thank you. The burning of the oil and the whole thing. Yeah. The filtering of oil. I mean the filtering of your consciousness. Well, is what stops you the symbolism and the oil in my in myself.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Very simple. Filtering of your consciousness is what stops you from living and experiencing that which you know yourself to be.

**Questioner:** Yeah. That's why I sort of stopped with that particular job because my best friend and I started going our separate ways. All right. But you what the burning of the oil was that kind of me trying to move too fast or something or or not really in a negative sense.

**Bashar:** It will reflect the idea that you are of high momentum at this time and in that way you have simply created the use of much lubrication for yourself. It will simply be a reflection which is not really in that way negative.

**Questioner:** Yeah. Yeah. I wasn't Yeah, I wasn't particular feeling simply the poor little pump could not keep up as a symbol. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. Thanks. Thank you.

### Legends and Phoenix

**Questioner:** Okay. Um, while my friends and I were talking and we were wondering out loud, um, are there more? Well, I'm assuming there are more beings on this planet like ourselves in terms of um who legends are told about um legends. What legends? Yeah. Well, um the one I'm getting is one about Phoenix from uh

**Bashar:** All right. For right now, allow me simply to say that we are allowed to tell you in that way that what you turn to be the symbol utilized in the archetypal sense of the phoenix will refer to Arcturus.