---
heading: Part 6 of Self Created Journey
title: "Mermaids, Werewolves, Leprechauns and The Pyramids"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1985-01-27
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 14
tags: ['mermaids', 'werewolves', 'atlantis', 'pyramids']
---



### On Mermaids, Werewolves, and Leprechauns

**Questioner:** Are there such things as mermaids and werewolves and leprechauns?

**Bashar:** Not in your sense of the meaning. 

They represent an entirely created subconscious archetypal energy consciousness universe. In that sense, they are real. 

They have their own self-awareness, their own consciousness. 

They are completely created by the subconscious projection of your own creator.


**Questioner:** Are they the effect of us then?

**Bashar:** In a sense, as any reflection would be an effect for you as you would be affected by any reflection you chose to make yourself aware of. 

Realize they represent in very many ways certain types of symbolic forms of energies that you allow yourself to deal with. 

Yet they are the physical translation of those energies that have no physical reality. 


**Questioner:** Is it possible to make physical contact with these beings?

**Bashar:** Only in a sense. If you were to allow yourself to make, as you say, physical contact with this archetypal subconscious universe, you yourself would in very many ways be removed from your own reality. 

Hence, you will find your stories of, as you say, humans visiting these archetypes and yet disappearing from sight to their fellow humans to do so. You will meet on an intervening dream reality ground where you can both share the same type of physicality. 

It will not be the physicality of their world. It will not be the physicality of yours.



### On Energy Vortexes and the Bermuda Triangle

**Questioner:** I read there are different vortexes here on Earth. Energy vortexes of some kind. 

**Bashar:** Just as your own physical form has what you term to be energy vortices which connect it to all of the different dimensional understandings and realities of itself, so does a world. 

So does a galaxy. So does a universe have doorways and connection points between various levels of reality and expression. 

They are simply those gateways of energy which form the overlaps. Do you follow me? Where we overlap into another dimension. Yes.


**Questioner:** Is that what the Bermuda Triangle is in the Superstition Mountains of Arizona? To a degree.

**Questioner:** Is there any reality to the whole concept of the Bermuda Triangle? 

Yes, to a degree. You will find it to be very closely also connected to certain energy levels of vibration which were instituted and still ongoing in what you turned to be Atlantis.


### On Crystals

**Questioner:** Are you talking about the crystal there? 

To a degree. More you will find that the crystal idea represents an idea already existent. It is in a sense the physicalization of a certain recognition of a certain type of energy, as most crystals will be. That is why as you and your planet step up in a sense in vibration, your physical selves will resonate in a more crystalline fashion and your physical bodies will in a sense become slightly more crystalline, just as your earth will.


**Questioner:** So are you saying then that the crystal and the idea of the crystal, like the crystal of Atlantis for instance, and also other types of crystals that have been used for various psychic purposes, is that more of an ideology of the directing and the concentrating of certain types of psychic energy?

**Bashar:** You want to call it psychic. 

Yes, to a degree it is the physical counterpart of the cohesiveness within the bond between one level of energy and another. They are in very many ways solid doorways.

**Questioner:** Does the crystal of Atlantis physically exist today?

**Bashar:** Yes, more than one. I'll say your species is aware of at least 12.

**Questioner:** Aware of? Does that mean we know the location of? No. What would happen if we found a crystal? Does that have any value to us?

**Bashar:** You will not find it until you are ready to find it. Anybody here in this group ready? Has anyone found one?



## On International Trade and Abundance

**Questioner:** Nick and I are working together. We're expanding in some international trade areas, and I was just wondering if you have any advices for that.

**Bashar:** There will be associations with at least three of the different cultures you will come in contact with, which will allow you direct access to certain physical remnants of various civilizations which have existed upon your planet. 

Each of these may be used by you as signposts for yourself to know that you have brought yourself closer to an expanded awareness of your own whole total being.

**Questioner:** How does this translate into money right now?

**Bashar:** Are you worried? No, I'm interested. Abundance.

**Bashar:** Perhaps realize that when you focus your energy upon the idea of worrying about not having something, you are telling yourself that you believe you will not have it. Your reality will reflect that belief. 

You may simply again allow yourself to know that the vibration of abundance is equal to your own. 

Realize that you are a creator. You are an automatic creator. You do not have to know the how of acquiring, the how of creating. Simply allow yourself to know that your self-image right here and right now of your time as you know it to exist is equal to that idea. Allow the creation to take care of itself. 

It will do so. Otherwise, if you focus on just this particular method, you will close behind you all the other doors through which that idea may have come. 

Being very stubbornly focused on only one gate, waiting and waiting, tapping your foot, wondering why it never shows up when it is knocking on the door you have locked all the time.


### On Bashar's Physical Form and Lifespan

**Questioner:** I'm curious about the physical forms of your civilization.

We are approximately of an average 5 feet. 

Our skin is white, grayish-white. Females have hair, males will not.There is a similarity between species upon your planet, you would liken us to in a sense a mixture of what you turn to be American Indian and Asian.

**Questioner:** So basically humanoid.

Yes. It's more similar to Reticulians than... you will find that we are more similar physically to you. 

If we were to have closer to your normally accepted range of skin coloration, you would not notice us walking down your street.


**Questioner:** Are some of you walking down our street? I don't mean that accusatively, but I feel like I've known you before and I feel a great affinity for you.

**Bashar:** Personally, our civilization? No. Other civilizations? Yes.



### On Birth and Forgetfulness

**Questioner:** Do you still have babies the way we have here on Earth? Do you still use sex? 

For the most part, yes, you will find. However, the difference is mostly mental. In other words, we will know exactly who that being is before they are born, what their purpose is and exactly how to integrate that idea.

**Questioner:** The second question would be after we leave our bodies here, we have this forgetfulness. 

We don't remember where we came from. Most of us anyway. At what level of awareness do you reach where you know where you're going? 

You understand when you get there where you came from?

**Bashar:** While you are non-physical, you will be aware of that idea. Any time you choose to project yourself in a sense into what you turn to be any limiting dimensionality, you will create the limitations which will represent those ideas you need to experience in that reality.

All those limitations are self-imposed, including totally your idea of karma. There is no outside judgment. 

There is truly no outside. All of you are collectively all that is. Your idea of karma is simply that sense of your own self-growth. 

That sense of your own self-purpose. There is no judgment imposed upon you from outside. There is no outside.


### The Pyramids [energy, navigation]

**Questioner:** What was the purpose of the pyramids on our planet?

**Bashar:** They crystallized the focus of energy forms. 

They allowed individuals to tune their vibratory fields to those which would allow them expansion of awareness, out of body travel. 

Some of the earlier pyramids which no longer physically exist on your planet were also for directional navigation.

**Questioner:** Did they have crystals on top of them?

**Bashar:** A few pyramids built with the assistance of... last time, very early ones. 

A few. Very early civilizations on your world function in a very, very different way from the way you function now. 

Many of them were very, very easily in tune with certain ideas that you only assume you require technology to accomplish. 

They knew what they were doing. They had assistance from civilizations but really that knowledge was available to them here on your world as well.

**Questioner:** When you say early, approximately how many years ago is this?

**Bashar:** Atlantis will exemplify the remnants of that idea. That will be between 12,000 and 25,000 of your years ago. 

Also before, 50 to 75,000 of your years ago, there was very, very high degree of psychic awareness and emotional cognizance on your world. 

There were also a few civilizations which existed way before that in terms of time as you know it.



### A Prison Planet

**Questioner:** Has this planet ever been used as a dumping ground, a prison?

**Bashar:** No. If it were a prison, why would you hold the key?

You have free will You have unlimited creativity. You are your own reality.

Do not view yourselves with such disdain. 

It only allows you to continue to feel less than every other civilization. You're no one's prisoner. You're no one's experiment. You are your own, very valid, very creative, very loving reality. Find your question.


**Questioner:** It seems to me if I was to take a look at this planet from 20 miles away and look what was going on, it would look to be in very bad shape. Chaotic. Now, is there any planets that are more chaotic than this is my question?

**Bashar:** Yes. Realize that I'll say in your terms there were some that were so chaotic they no longer exist. I think you have done quite well. By no means in your terminology are you the low planet on your totem pole. 

We view all experiences as equal.

None is worse, better, less, greater. Each has its purpose. Each is a learning experience. 

It is created out of an unending sense of expansion and awareness.
