---
heading: "Part 1"
title: "Sharing Forever"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1985-04-17
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
tags: ['']
weight: 27
---



## Sharing Forever: Introduction

**Bashar:** You are now forming within your mass consciousness of the new habit, the new view of yourself in this way as you have chosen to view yourselves as an Associated wholeness composed of equally strong individuals, each expressing his or her own conviction of the totality of their own being, each knowing of the innate right to feel that each and every one of you deserve to live your dreams because you are your dreams. 

You are the ideas, you are the events of your life. And in this way, we will simply briefly once again remind you that we are now co-forming, co-creating with you the idea of your energy as a part of the association that we view as being a collection of consciousness of many civilizations and level densities of experience. 

In this way, as we have said, you may now afford yourselves the opportunity, allowing us in this way to communicate with you, knowing that you may if you wish create question is up to you, but in our viewpoint all will be a teaching from you, a teaching from us, a learning from us, a learning from you, and thus a sharing of our Consciousness, our civilization and yours so that together your civilization and ours can become the sharing that continues forever. 

In this way, we will rather than ask for question simply State... sharing.


## Christmas Energies

**Participant:** Well, I would like... Christmas time—we call it Christmas time on the planet. 

We understand things change, they seem to change, and from your point of view I would like to know if there are different energies that indeed are coming to the planet at that time to bathe the planet in the love, or are the same energies in that way allowing themselves to be connected to your planet as they have for many of your years?

**Bashar:** In this way simply recognize that in your Consciousness you allot that time frame to usually, usually be more aware of the energy that is already there and has been. You follow me? There is no increase in the energy in that way except as you create an increase by allowing yourself more conscious recognition of that idea. 


Connection with Nature (The Cat)

**Participant:** I went to a place where I like to meditate and I was sitting on this bench overlooking [the lake]. 

This cat jumped into my arms and it's just like it was an old friend. I mean, it just got really, really close to me in my arms, it looked up in my face and got real... rubbed his face against my face and it's just real, real close to me, as close as it could get. And I just... I felt so much love in such an exchange.


**Bashar:** You are increasing your awareness of your essential self.

In this way, your Consciousness as it is—and have you, I'll say, in this way always been exploring the idea of your connection in this way in this life to Nature and the idea of the enlargement of your consciousness of that vibration which now allows you to know that you do consciously interact with that idea, with nature. 

They have always known this, simply in this way waiting for individuals upon your planet to awaken to the fact that you are a part of them, they are a part of you.

in this way, it was in a sense the greeting of an old friend. In that way, that animal performed the symbol of your now conscious connection to the Natural part of yourself and your ability to communicate with that level of your creator Hood.



## Physical Description & Recording Devices

**Participant:** Hi. Last week we talked about your recording devices and we came to a figure which supposedly described the size of them. Recall that? Yes. There is still a discrepancy. I was working on a way to clarify that. I want to ask a couple questions. Would you say that the proportions of your hands to your body are similar to that of ours to our body?

**Bashar:** Somewhat. Fingers longer, little bit.

**Participant:** Okay. Well, let me propose that since your average is 5'8" tall, I would say that the span from the tip of your thumb to the tip of your middle finger would be approximately six of our inches.

**Bashar:** All right. Allow me to also suggest we have in this way delved into the difficulty in the translation ourselves. Got that out? Yes. You may think of it as this: the central core are composed in this way of five cubicle mates, 20 ft on a side.

The difficulty in Translation was that in the normal, quote-unquote, methodology of connecting up or identifying with information while in the transceiving cubicle in which I am existing in this way to communicate with you, there is simply the normal technique of connecting to that which provides the information itself. In this way, recognize that in connecting with the idea of the consciousness of the computer to itself, it sees itself as an ever-varying shape, size, and dimensionality.

Every opportunity to intersect with its Consciousness in describing the translation to you always provided a different Viewpoint. Simply, it was a matter in this way of allowing myself to disconnect once our communication had ceased and going to measure it for myself.

The absorption as you say visually of the device allowed me a way to present to you the concept in such a way that it can be a more clear translation.

**Participant:** Okay. And you say each of the... you said the central core is made up of five such blocks?

**Bashar:** Yes, each 20 feet on a side.


## Time, Birthdays, and Birth Control

**Participant:** Um, I understood that last week of our time was your birthday, which is a little odd. Celebrate a birthday anyway? And I'm wondering how do you translate your time and an anniversary on your... in your time to our time?

**Bashar:** See, in this way recognize that there are parallel ideas within our Consciousness. Since your civilization, our civilization, and the one around Sirius in this way do form Triad consciousness of the same Consciousness, there are parallels.

There are timings that do coincide to some degree. In this way, now it is not exactly in your terms the same date, in that way the same idea, the exact moment of your date Upon Our Planet, but simply in that way when I expressed that idea to you, it coincided with the corresponding date in terms of the essential idea of the vibrations that represent my physical birth. And in this way, you may also understand that it forms the vibrational agreement between, in this way, the physical channel before you and you understand the terminology: 10/12 mine, 11/11 an chops, 12/10. You follow me?

**Participant:** Yes. Interesting. Thus in that way the serious energy being myself as I am the channels, right? Then you have a chronology on your planet similar to ours?

**Bashar:** Uh, even though we recognize the vibration in this way, it is not so much a chronology being kept. Simply that we will know again by sensing when the corresponding date has occurred on your planet because of the similar vibration of the idea.

**Participant:** Okay. Is the 11/11 our time or is it your time as your planet rotates or revolves around your... your time?

**Bashar:** Okay, because you can, as I see it, you can move the phase of your time with respect to our time at in a sense, but we were representing as close as we possibly can within the translation the closest approximate idea of a date in this way, the one that will be representative of the energy of the Triad between the physical Channel, myself, and my future self.

**Participant:** Do you have birth control?

**Bashar:** In a manner of speaking, only in that there will not be a Consciousness born that does not need to be born. 

So in other words, conception will just not take place if that's not very good.

**Participant:** Great. Wouldn't that be true on this planet that all the beings that are born do want to be born?

**Bashar:** Right. Yes, by agreement. But it's maybe more of a conscious agreement on your...

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** And in this way, simply we recognize consciously the timing and know the individual to some degree who is going to be born before they are. So there's no illusion of victimhood like sometimes people have.

**Participant:** No. Thank you. That is a tool.

**Bashar:** In this way, our civilization does not need neither do we, but we've got it. But you are learning that you do not need it.


## Lifespan and Death

**Participant:** You said you were like about 157 approximately in your terms of time?

let's say you were walking down the street here, all right, and maybe I looked at you, how old would I think you were like if I thought you were from Earth?

**Bashar:** About 40.

**Participant:** people die, you say they live to be about 300 here approximately, again in your terms of counting. Okay. 

Well, how does it... not happen? Like, do they just like end one day or do they get run over by a truck? I mean, is it the same thing as here? And they don't get cancer 'cause you say you don't have disease. Do they lie down and leave?

**Bashar:** Oh, this very simple. You lie down and leave.

**Participant:** And then what happens to the... what do they do with the meat?

**Bashar:** It is, at this time in our civilization, can be many things. Sometimes, according to the idea of the individual, it can in your terms be physically buried either in land or ocean, is up to them. Or it can simply be absorbed into energy.

**Participant:** How? I mean, like by mental process kind of disappear?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant:** Okay.

***

# Conversation 6: How Bashar Knows Answers

**Participant:** Um, I wanted to ask you something else. Sometimes when people ask you a question, I wonder like, how do you know an answer?

**Bashar:** In this way, recognize you know the answer. Mm. You always know the answer, otherwise you would not have a question, right? In this sense, recognize that when we share the idea of a reflection of yourself, we are simply reflecting that idea back to yourself which you are already exemplifying. Many times also understand we are in communication with more than just your conscious self, and many times we are also in this way in communication with your higher self which always knows the idea of the answer. Now, we do not always quote-unquote "know" the answer, and in this way many times we have chosen to restrict ourselves and our own knowledge in that way when the idea of knowing an answer, so to speak, would interfere with your self-empowerment or your free will. Mhm. Then we will not know the answer, and we will know that when we do not know the answer in that way, it is because you are in the middle of a process and our answering would interrupt it.

**Participant:** Okay. So then like you're kind of Consulting the person's higher self or whatever when you're...

**Bashar:** One, either that or your Spirit guides or many other levels of your Consciousness or your future self or your past self or what have you. Okay? You are all right here anyway.

**Participant:** Yeah, I get that.

***

# Conversation 7: Counterparts and Future Selves

**Participant:** I'd like to know if you know if um, if I have a counterpart or something like that in your civilization.

**Bashar:** Why?

**Participant:** Well, I don't want to say just curiosity because then you'll say just curiosity. No, because I feel a connection and I don't know if the connection is either because maybe I have a counterpart there or just that I feel more in communication with uh people from your civilization and you know all right now.

**Bashar:** Yeah. All right, now simply if you will allow me in this way to go along with you in your exploration... Mhm. What difference would it make?

**Participant:** Not a hell of a lot.

**Bashar:** All right. What do you feel you want to do with the feeling of the connection you have created within yourself?

**Participant:** Um...

**Bashar:** Understand at this time while you are pondering that... yeah, the idea of the blending and the co-sharing is for your creation of action, your Creation in this way of your momentum, rather than simply the labeling of the ideas. What do you want to do with the idea you have created of your connection?

**Participant:** Um, it's kind of hard to put in the words.

**Bashar:** All right. How does it make you feel?

**Participant:** Uh, more connected and more... um, to what? Just to other people in the universe, you know, where you don't feel that you're alone. You feel like yes, you kind of know what's going on, you have kind of a good feeling.

**Bashar:** All right. Yeah, that's it. Now allow me to say on one level you are patterning your idea of yourself on your planet after the ideas we have shared with you of our civilization. Yeah. In a sense, you are now forming a future self. Allow me simply to say at this time, out of perception, the idea of such a potential future self as we perceive your energy is not someone who physically exists in our society at this moment. Yeah, although it could be. Yeah, we will see. Yes. Understand we are making this reference within a Time Track, and in this way though we do recognize that everything is simultaneous and that by that definition if you have a future self it exists right now in our civilization, we are still referring to the time track because the process of your Discovery is ongoing and so we will keep it in the time track. Your future self has not been born yet in our civilization if you decide to have one. It has not been born yet.

**Participant:** Oh, okay. In my time frame?

**Bashar:** Frame. Okay. Thank you.

**Participant:** Sharing. Sure.

***

# Conversation 8: Channelling Hyperion and Past Lives

**Participant:** Yes, I have some very wonderful sharing news. All right. Um, I channeled for the first time yesterday.

**Bashar:** Yes. And it was very enlightening and it was absolutely wonderful. Right now may I interrupt you for a moment?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Recognize we understand the distinction that you are making, however, it is not the first time you have channeled. You are always channeling your higher self through to the unfoldment of your physical life.

**Participant:** Yes, I almost said that so that you wouldn't say that.

**Bashar:** What kind of channeling did you do?

**Participant:** Um, I channeled... well actually I had a friend come over, she regressed me to a past Lifetime and we did some work in that lifetime. Guys, Bashar, the lifetime is Sakura. All right. And I found out some information about that I will share with you after. All right. But um, and then she took me out and into the white light where there were two entities waiting for me, and the one that wished to speak was Hyperion, who we discussed last week. Ni. And Hyperion... well, what he told me anyway... um, is that he's my future. All right. Approximately A Thousand Years. All right. Um, he's not necessarily a physical being, he can create a body if he chooses.

**Bashar:** Very good. And um, understand you are referring to the time frame in this way upon your planet that represents the point in which there will be far fewer physical beings upon the planet and those that in that way choose to take bodies will use the few bodies that are around, taking turns. Yeah. You will have almost, I'll say in this way, ended your need to be in the physical reincarnational cycle by that time on your planet. Mm.

**Participant:** Yes. He uh said that he was... his energy is derived from Pleiades. But all right, he can't say that. That's... we understand his origin. And he just told... he told me a lot just about the channeling process and things like that. And uh, it was so... it was... I can't tell you how wonderful I feel that you just have... I I feel I'm going to burst.

**Bashar:** All right. You are, you are expanding within yourself. Um, and well, I don't think it's a coincidence. Of course, it is a coincidence. It is not accidental that none of them... are that Carol had the same type of experience this week also. Um, but I can't even remember what I wanted to say about this. Um, I I basically... I have, and he said it, I have a teeny teeny little bit of doubt about whether I was making it up or not. And I know that I was not making it up. All right, I know that. But all right, it will not matter. You have doubt. All right. So what? I know. No, well that's what I'm saying. Because the information was very enlightening and everything. So right then it has served you. No matter what the origin, no matter what the reasons, it has served you.

**Participant:** I guess basically I wanted to check out... check out the information as far as um... ridiculous. Yes. I yes. Thank you. Okay.

***

# Conversation 9: The Lifetime of Sakura

**Participant:** Um, okay. I'll go to soccer now. Um, the lifetime of Sakura, we went back 'cause I was trying to find out whether he... what the connection was to the school. And apparently I guess he studied there. Um, his Hobbies were... was astronomy. His hob... astronomy. And he was in communication with Hyperion in that lifetime. But he would have been... I was really surprised when I found that out. I almost popped out of the hypnosis 'cause I was so surprised. Um, and he also worked... I don't know if the terminology is translocation or not, but he had... he used I believe gems of some kind or an amplification tool to uh change matter. But he didn't do it that... transmutation. Transmutation, it's probably the word I'm looking for. He had that sort of power too, but he didn't use it that that much. What um, basically he was very introspective and very I don't want to say antisocial, but he was...

**Bashar:** Understand he's very internal. He was as you say an aesthetic. Yes.

**Participant:** Uh, so I assume that that... well that was the connection to the um the name of the school, Sakura. And I was... he told me that I was named Sakura in that life in the hopes that by naming myself Sakura that it would be the embodiment of that whole idea.

**Bashar:** Very good.

**Participant:** And that hopefully I would create that reality and become that type of person. They understood the idea of identification very well.

**Bashar:** Okay.

**Participant:** Um, so I... it was... I found it odd just that the first regression none of this came out although I was probably searching for something different in the first regression.

**Bashar:** It's all a matter of timing. Yes. That's true. Understanding this way you have a deeper appreciation of what you now know than you would have had finding it out before. Yes. For you have had many more experiences upon which you can now form a feeling basis, a knowing basis for what you have given yourself. Yes.

**Participant:** Because uh I went back to Sakura first and found that I was in contact with Hyperion, and then when I went ahead and channeled Hyperion the connection was there, so I felt really good about it. Nice. And was just two um details I want to ask you about. What while I was speaking as Hyperion, I I was semi-conscious of the experience, and as soon as I knew that it was actually him speaking, I was noticing my hands were... my thumb and my index finger were together and they were contracted and I could not separate my fingers, and I was feeling the physical pain but yet I was above the physical pain.

**Bashar:** Very good.

**Participant:** I would like to know what this... all right. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Recognize in this way that through the symbology you call your hand, your five fingers, the thumb will represent the idea of the physical reality in which the connection is being made. What you turn to be in this way, your index finger will be just that: indicating a flow, a direction, a focusing of Consciousness between the idea of your full Consciousness, the future self, and your physical form here. In this way to make that connection.

**Participant:** Is this similar to why the physical Channel Daryl holds his hands in... in any sense?

**Bashar:** We are in this way grounding, completing a circuit. Recognizing this way that in this sense the fingers that are infolded reflect to some degree the idea of our position within the idea of mentality. It is the mentality finger in this way fed back the channeling, the energy finger.

**Participant:** Thank you. The other detail... almost looked like a 20th century telescope. And I and I thought maybe it was a symbol of something you were seeing.

**Bashar:** Accurately. There were far more devices of that type that existed then than you now presently think, though you have to some degree in your present civilization rediscovered some of them. You have discovered many lenses. You have even discovered batteries. You now know there was electricity that far back.

**Participant:** So that was actually a astronomical... okay. I'm sorry, one more detail. No, I'm not sorry. Thank you. Uh, the first part of the regression, I saw as in a room as Sakura, and I saw... right. It was... and I did not know whether it was a statue or uh a human in a disguise or I had no idea, and it was really confusing to me.

**Bashar:** All right. It was to some degree the embodiment—not truly physically but the embodiment—of the Gateway through which Sakura allowed himself to be in touch with Hyperion.

**Participant:** Oh, I see. Then that's why it came up in that regression. In this way representing the idea of the gate, the gate through death. You follow me?

**Bashar:** Oh, yes. That makes total sense.

**Participant:** So was the Anubis there in the physical?

**Bashar:** Not as you understand it. All right. Oh, that makes one... that's one. You may understand it as Sakura's embodiment using archetypal energy of a symbol by which he then was able to make the connection to the Future Self.

**Participant:** I see. Did Sakura Channel Lisa?

**Bashar:** Not really as you understand it. There was to some degree an awareness of what we will call the transformational life, yours, and the part it would play. It is yours and the part it would play. It is not so much that there was a channeling but there was some blending in the sense that he was aware you would become aware of him.

**Participant:** I see. Thank you, Bashar.

**Bashar:** No, thank you. Thank you for your sharing and your willingness to reflect all the facets of your being to yourself.

**Participant:** Nice. What do you mean by the word archetype? Like I looked that up in a dictionary and I couldn't find it.

**Bashar:** All right. Thank you. Recognize we are describing the idea that your individual consciousness and your mass Consciousness both have a type of energy that is for the most part what you call subconsciousness. Out of the subconscious energy stream—you may think of it as an underground river if you wish—you create all sorts of symbologies to clothe certain forms or extensions of your own Consciousness in a symbol that your outer aware consciousness can make use of. Thus in this way, the idea you call the myths and legends and gods and goddesses that you have created throughout your history of separation will be seen more or less to be Reflections, embodiments which sometimes in your terms seem to physically appear to you, that reflected certain levels of your Consciousness you had not yet understood you could integrate within one consciousness. Understanding there were visitations in a sense from your own subconscious and from the subconscious of the entire civilization. You follow me?

**Participant:** Well, like what would be the difference between that, let's say like for example you said like a leprechaun, what would be the difference between that and let's say a dog? You know, isn't that... I mean I don't...

**Bashar:** All right. To some degree there is a similarity, but in this way recognize that the animal consciousness is a part of your present Time stream outward physical Consciousness. They are acting as conscious guides reflecting your natural Creator Hood, the automatic Creator within yourself you call nature. In this way they are a part of the conscious even though they do extend into the subconscious. But the archetypal ideas come from the idea you call the subconscious. Now sometimes they do reflect other consciousnesses in your terms apart from you, but in coming into your time stream they will cloak themselves in that energy and therefore you create for yourself a reflection you can deal with. You follow me?

**Participant:** Yeah, as much as I'm going to I think.

**Bashar:** All right. It is available free natural energy that can be formed into whatever symbol you are dealing with that you cannot integrate at the moment in your Consciousness.

**Participant:** Okay. How was that? I'll take it. Thank you.

***

# Conversation 10: Past Lives (Isis, Atlantis) and Symbols

**Participant:** Yeah. Yes. Um, I had a couple of things to share with you. Right. Um, for instance, Lisa just talked this weekend. I was in a... right where I studied with Isis and received information from Syria, yes, and used that. And at the time I was working with a pharaoh and I had like a crystal ball but it seemed to be like a celestial sphere, yes, and it was embedded in a golden scepter that you call the ank. Okay. And it seemed like I was working describing the energy systems that were coming into the planet from very... so that we could build certain things.

**Bashar:** Now understand in this way that there was the ability then, whereas in your present civilization you have what you call Optical astronomy and radio astronomy, there was a different kind of energy astronomy that you were proficient at. You could sense the energy flows of Consciousness coming from different star systems to your own, and your device could pinpoint them in exactly the same manner that your radio telescopes can pinpoint radio sources and your optical telescopes can pinpoint light.

**Participant:** Okay. I got from that that after I took that... I took that going on board of spacecraft and coming back off the spacecraft, and really it was jubilant and like I was running. Guys, and then I worked with another lifetime where I was in Atlantis virtually. It seemed to be doing the same, receiving information into my third eye from other systems. But I was... I was in a room full of crystals. Both civilizations made use of that particular application of the vibratory nature of Crystal structures. Okay. And then when I took the Atlantean lifetime into the future, I saw myself on a stage and beside me it seemed to be like a thing of the solar system but they were floating, you know. It was like the solar system. And I was talking to a huge group of people about... and then the next image I got was a copper, I think it was, gyroscope just whirling, a great big one. Can you tell me anything about that image?

**Bashar:** Only this: there is something which stands out more than your imagery: the concept of the stage. For you have been on it many times, and in this way it is one of the strongest connections that you feel to a certain other individual presently alive in your time frame who also Acts... the women you have been co-actors on many stages.

**Participant:** I assume real soon.

**Bashar:** All yes. Okay.

**Participant:** Um, uh, so in that lifetime too the same image came of the spacecraft, so I just... I know that's going to happen and that feels wonderful. And I can share in your vibration now and I realize this is part of the process for me to to enjoy the vibration and and oh...

**Bashar:** Thank you. We are enjoying the fact that you are having a good time.

**Participant:** Um, and another thing I wanted to talk about was I burnt my finger. I became aware that I really lost my fingerprint in a way, and I started thinking, I wonder if the... ar has fingerprints? And why do we have fingerprints? And if I didn't have these fingerprints and I died, they'd never know who I was. And and I started really... it was so... it was a wonderful process because I thought, oh, I damned burn my finger, but what I realized out of that is that truly there is... in a way we need the idea, but in a way we don't. And I can see how that relates to my work with...

**Bashar:** Very Gooding vibrational signature. Right. In a sense, but in this way for you an opportunity to realize once again the idea you have just expressed: if you die, who will know? Well, you will. But I mean, yes, you will. You will. And this is what you are teaching yourself in this way. You are the only idea of your identity in this way that matters. Outside Judgment of what you have done does not matter. You know what you have done and you can be satisfied with that idea whether you have an outward Identity or not. You follow me? It is one more opportunity to form a symbol to recognize your own central power.

**Participant:** So what I'm getting from that too is like I keep wanting to identify Mah... whether he's my past or future or or panete. And I guess it really doesn't matter.

**Bashar:** Not really. It's all the same thing anyway. In a sense, however, we will say MTO is not your past nor your future self, but a friend.

**Participant:** A friend. Can you tell me if these... no. No, I'm going to ask one more question. It's really on a different thing and it's probably from a whole different Carol. All right.

***

# Conversation 11: Intense Energy Dynamics and Karma

**Participant:** For the last couple of weeks I've been entangled, it seems, in an energy Dynamic with another being, man being here. And I've at times... I don't even understand why it's such an intense Dynamic and why am I there? It feels crazy and oh, very good, then neurotic. And oh, all right. And all these judgmental things. And I go, how can I be in this state and then be this person who knows that I'm like this Egyptian and all?

**Bashar:** Because now you are willing to be a little crazy. You are willing to unlock because you are stabilizing in the center of yourself, and so your reality can have more Mobility to allow more of you to unlock and integrate. You are willing to know now that you do not have to worry about your stability and things around you can seem a little crazy. You follow me? You are unlocking. You are now willing to unlock so things can move faster. But in this situation, this being... sometimes it feels like the only way to get out of that strange hold of energy is to walk away from it and not be involved in it.

**Participant:** All right. And then in a way that feels like that's ignoring it, you know. I feel like I'm in a bind. And I suppose that now...

**Bashar:** Allow me to say in this way you can also walk through it rather than away from it and alleviate the effect of the negativity.

**Participant:** Does does some of this this Dynamic have to do with um... never mind. I'm... anyway, so ask it. Yeah. What... going to that... there seem to be a triangle of energy last week that prompted the whole thing. And and it seemed like I got an image of a past life where I was a child, child in Arabia or Africa or something. So I was wondering if this energy Dynamic had to do with that past life.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Very good.

**Participant:** Yes. Was the man my mother as I perceived in this time?

**Bashar:** The masculine energy is stronger, overpowering the idea of the feminine energy. In this way, it is in your terms a backlash effect. All we are allowed to say at this time is a feeling of impotence then creates the idea of over-forcefulness, now which is still the same thing. And you can be a loving reflection to this individual to allow him/her to recognize his/her own balance in the idea of the blending of the male/female energy within the being.

**Participant:** So the little child that I got is an IM innocence?

**Bashar:** Innocence. Thank you.

**Participant:** Thank you. Sharing.

***

# Conversation 12: Ecstatic Coincidence (Radio Station)

**Participant:** All right. You then... you then... you then... okay. I had a e last weekend. What's that? An ecstatic explosion of Y. And I had a lot of fun. I was listening to the radio about 3:00 in the morning and the DJ announced he wanted to have listeners call up and announce the top three most requested songs. And you know, 3:00 in the morning I didn't have anything else to do, so I went ahead and called up. And it just so happened the song he wanted me to announce just happened to be the only song that they play on that radio station that I happen to know the song on the piano. And so this is what happened:

*[Audio Clip]*
"Station that I happen to know the song on the piano... happen. Well, it's 3:00, this is Kym Santa Anna and we got the top three at three. It's the top three most requested songs this morning and we got someone on the line right now who's going to tell us what it is. Hi, who's this? Hi, this is Craig from Alhambra. All right, would you happen to know what the third most requested song is this morning? Yeah, it goes something like this [Music]... the third... more... I can hardly say this. I know I just woke my father up. The third most requested song on KM is Strieber, Together As One."

**Bashar:** All right. Very good. Now recognize in this way your ecstatic explosion of coincidence is when you do see yourself together as one. Yeah. It just happens to be a great title. What a coincidence.

**Participant:** Yeah. I had a lot of fun. Just so much.

**Bashar:** Thank you for the generation of the acceleration of your own momentum in this way and the addition and the making of a difference to the overall idea of the transformation from third to Fourth density.

**Participant:** Yes.

***

# Conversation 13: Visions (Crystal Cave, Paris) and Helping Others

**Participant:** Okay. I have a few things to share. Um, since grinning as you suggested, and I've found that a lot of things have been opening up for me.

**Bashar:** Oh, very good. And I thank you. And thank you.

**Participant:** Um, one of the things last night I I was going to sleep and I decided to open myself anything. And immediately, almost immediately, saw a vision of what I like to call a Crystal Cave, which was more like a crystal tower of caves, um, in in sort of a crevice in a in a large Cliff.

**Bashar:** What color?

**Participant:** Um, mostly clear, but I I saw I think blues and greens. And it I had the feeling that it was either imitating a waterfall or there was a waterfall actually coming over it. And I wondered, I had the feeling it could either be Pleiadian.

**Bashar:** Yes, it is. Yes.

**Participant:** Uh, would that mean... no comment. Okay. I'll explore that further. Oh, comment. Okay. I'll explore that further. Thank you. Very good. Okay. Um, then I let myself open for another Vision. Um, and at the same time I had a friend on my mind, Jessica, who's been out of town for a while. And what I saw was that I was on a hovercraft on River uh, which was going down a center lane very quickly and other craft were passing on either side in both directions. I had the feeling that it might be Paris, but it seemed more futuristic to me than the Paris that exists now. Would that be connected in any way to Paris or to Jessica?

**Bashar:** Our perception of that energy at this time, though it will be up to you to determine for yourself if this is valid, is that it represents an alternate parallel reality.

**Participant:** Would that be connected to a dream I had also of being in Paris in the future?

**Bashar:** Okay.

**Participant:** Um, also another question about Jessica. I was wondering because I've been thinking a lot about her lately. Had a very close tie while she was here, although she uh apparently is mixed up in a lot of very heavy Karma. Heavy Karma. Well, she's had a lot of very distressing things happen to her, which is why she went back to Paris.

**Bashar:** Your idea of karma is completely self-imposed. She does create it. Yes.

**Participant:** Um, I wondered then what my connections, possible Connections in the past with her might have been, um, and if that had any reason for her not accepting my help, which I preferred openly to her, and she seemed to accept at the time and turned away and did her own thing.

**Bashar:** Only in a sense. There's also an opportunity for you to recognize that you cannot directly in this way actually help anyone except by being the totality of yourself and offering a reflection and assistance and being simply available in this way.

**Participant:** That... but I was... I was wondering if that had connected to other lives. To some degree, could you explain any of them?

**Bashar:** Okay. Right. One is also yes, in Paris in the past. Mm. In your time frame. Mhm. Okay. Thank you.

**Participant:** Um, one other thing for now. Um, during one of my regressions where I was quote-unquote blocking a little, um, I received one vision of an Egyptian symbol of horns with a disc in the center. Yes. Um, which I felt had something to do with my uh, my one of my guides perhaps.

**Bashar:** Oh, in a sense. Was that an archetypical in a sense?

**Participant:** Okay. Could you uh expand on that for me?

**Bashar:** You will expand on that together. Who? Me? Yes.

**Participant:** Okay. I thought that had something to do with it. Um, he... excuse me, can I... I didn't know him in the soccer lifetime, but we... it was a passing acquaintance. Right. That keep exploring.

**Participant:** Okay. I I apparently was um some kind of a not an ambassador but something a little lower than an ambassador at the time of Sakura. Could you tell me anything about that?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant:** Was I helping in a positive way towards towards peace or you thought so?

**Bashar:** Oh no. Said I screw things up. Not really. Thank you. Thank you.

**Participant:** Yes. I was really... thank you. Thank you. Yes. I was high, uh, sort of high when this happened. This incident, I was listening to music and all of a sudden I'm floating around under music. I like to know uh, how do you... how does your Consciousness blend with something like that?

**Bashar:** Because everything in all that is is your Consciousness. You simply realized it and thus became it. Everything in your reality is you. You are the event of your life. Ideas are not what you have; ideas are what you are. You simply removed the separation between yourself and the idea and became the idea. Very good. Oh, do you follow me?

**Participant:** Yes. I got another question. All right. I'm listening to music and why, why do I like certain kind of songs and they sort of make me feel good and all that?

**Bashar:** You simply are identifying with the vibration as it represents to you certain ideas you have chosen to physicalize in this present life. Thank. Is very simple. Allow your physical reality to be an obvious reflection of the purposes you chose to be physical for. They are these ideas, these vibrations, some of them close in synchronous Harmony to the idea of your vibration of excitement, which is the translation physically of the energy that always indicates the path you have chosen to be on. You are in sync with yourself in that way. Always allow your imagination to be the tool that you have created it to be, to always let you know in picture or feeling for those ideas that represent at the moment you conceive of them any idea that is possible for you to manifest and act out. Become the idea and you will flow as you flow as the music.

**Participant:** Thank you. Very creative. B. Yes.

***

# Conversation 14: Grief, Depression, and Connection to Deceased Parents

**Participant:** This is my first time talking to you. All right. Several weeks ago, well, in the last two years, there have been several deaths in my family, including my mother and father. Yes. In fact, today is my father's birthday. I would have been... all right. Happy birthday. Oh, would you say happy birthday?

**Bashar:** Birthday. Oh, would you say happy birthday? Happy birthday.

**Participant:** Oh, thank you. About eight or nine weeks ago I started to feel better for the first time in 2 years, and I felt better for about 7 weeks straight on a regular basis. All right. Okay. Two weeks ago tomorrow I started to feel very down and very detached.

**Bashar:** Very good. And that physical reality doesn't have much... very good. And if nothing makes any sense... oh, very good. Very good.

**Participant:** Like to just go join them on this other Consciousness because this all doesn't have any meaning.

**Bashar:** All right. Now understand that you can. However, you can also first do what you chose to do and simply recognize that you are not separated from them while you are still physical. It is one of the things that you have chosen to experience in this physical life, and in that way you can learn much that will be of great service to other individuals round and about you. The idea of going within yourself, withdrawing, is only viewed as negative by many members of your society when you judge that the idea of such a meditation or centering is something negative that you call a depression. It is not negative. You are going to the center of yourself. You are allowing your physical reality in this way to become the illusion that it is. You are allowing yourself to know you are creating it. And in this way you can recognize that all ideas of Separation can go out the window with that reality. You are still connected to all those consciousnesses; they are connected to you. And in this way, recognize this utilizing and identifying and synchronizing with that energy, particularly of in this way your father, you can understand you are now recreating another idea of your own birthday in another fashion. Recognize that the event you call... when viewed from that side is a birth. You follow me?

**Participant:** How do you feel?

**Bashar:** Not is separ... all right. How does your reality appear?

**Participant:** It's okay.

**Bashar:** Okay. All right. Now no need in this way to create the expectation or the Judgment that it needs to be anything. Enjoy yourself. Enjoy what you are creating for yourself with the connections. All relationships once created always go on forever, no matter what the definition of the relationship, even if you are not physically together. So what? You are together and you will be together again physically and non-physically. In this way, but simply recognize that you are giving yourself the opportunity before the transformation from physicality to non-physicality to recognize one of the things you chose to recognize in this life: that while you are still physical, there are no separations, and you are creating and co-creating all the agreements that you have with every individual with which you have ever lived. Follow me?

**Participant:** Yes, I do. I want to say one other thing. I was speaking with Torah on Saturday.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant:** And he said that I had another lifetime where I died at 13. I was with my parents, the parents of this lifetime, and we were in Atlantis and I died and they lost me and they went through a very difficult grieving process.

**Bashar:** All right. Now it is your turn to bat. Yes. There was some balance with that. Very good. You will in your vernacular hit a home run, round all the bases, and then go home.

**Participant:** All right. All right. Thank you. Thank you, sir.

**Bashar:** Sure. One moment. Proceed.

***

# Conversation 15: Nervousness and Recurring Illness

**Participant:** Okay. I've never talked to you either, so I'm nervous.

**Bashar:** All right. How about this idea: you are sharing your excitement, not because you are talking to me, for I am in this way no better than you. We are equal. We are sharing. We are friends. We are both excited to share with each other. Nervousness is the same energy, only viewed from the idea that you are judging yourself to be less, which you are not. Thank you. What exciting idea do you have to share?

**Participant:** Oh, why not? Yes. It is. Go ahead. Um, about two years ago, um, I went in the hospital 'cause I thought I was getting my appendix out, when really it was an infection that I had. And about 5 months ago, um, it came back and I went to the doctor. Doctor, I got on antibiotics and it seemed to go away a little bit, and then it came back. And I keep on going back to the doctor and it keeps coming back, and now they can't even find anything that's wrong. And I feel it. But I was wanted to ask you what is causing this, 'cause it feels like every time I get like really insecure, that that's what happens. All right. I wondering if you could tell me. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Okay. How do you feel about knives and swords? Think about it.

**Participant:** Now like him very much.

**Bashar:** All right. Have you in your physical life ever cut yourself?

**Participant:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** What did you create for yourself in the way of emotionality when you did? Pain. In the way of emotionality. All right. Did any pictures other than what you deem to be the immediate experience come to mind? Any images, no matter how silly, any fantasies as you may have called them with regard to the idea of the penetrating blade? How about in your dreams?

**Participant:** All right. Will you do me a favor?

**Bashar:** Yeah. Stand up. Stand straight. Are you in pain now?

**Participant:** No.

**Bashar:** Put your hand over the area that you feel to be affected. Turn around facing away three times in succession until you face the physical Channel again. Slowly. Keep turning. All right. Do you feel any temperature difference in that area of your body or any energy sensation at all in any portion?

**Participant:** Yeah. I love it. Describe it.

**Bashar:** It just feels heated right here.

**Participant:** All right. I feel hot up here.

**Bashar:** Very good. Now use your imagination right now and form pictures. Pictures of the area, pictures of of the energy in the area. What kind of pictures do you get in your imagination? Do not think about it. Okay. Describe it. Create the pictures and describe them as you create. We are playing a game. Feel free. There is no right and wrong answer. Describe anything abstract, colors, Sensations, pictures, images, movements, beings, no matter how you may think they are unrelated. Describe what your imagination is giving you when you simply think of the energy in the affected area.

**Participant:** Snow.

**Bashar:** All right. Very good. Keep going. Um, go into the image. Marell. All right. Go into the images. Move through the, move into them. Let them grow in your imagination until you can step actually inside of them. What other images then come? Every image you give yourself, make it grow and step inside of it, and what is the next image?

**Participant:** Image. Um, do not think. Do not try. Play. Feel Free. Flow. See yourself moving. So your help moving into the objects or images, even if it is an individual. Individual. Describe.

**Participant:** Um, all right. No need to be embarrassed. We're only playing a game. There is no meaning or content to this. No one is judging your performance except me. Very good. Very good. You m... it down. All down. All right.

**Bashar:** Now that you are aware of the Judgment of your performance, how does that area feel?

**Participant:** So that's what causes it? My judgment on myself? Yes. How do I get rid of it?

**Bashar:** Right now? You can never get rid of anything. There is nowhere to get rid of anything too, because you are the entireness of your own Universe. You fill the space of your entire universe. You are all that is. It is simply a matter of preference. Do you prefer judging yourself or not? Which do you prefer?

**Participant:** Not.

**Bashar:** No. Do you prefer to judge yourself? Do you prefer to not judge yourself?

**Participant:** I prefer not.

**Bashar:** All right. Now understand with the same ability that you just made a preference, you can recognize that you do not have to judge anything, but that making a preference for what you know represents the vibration that you are in this life is not necessarily a judgment. You can prefer something which is only a recognition of the vibration that you are without judging yourself. As you feel in this way you have been judged. You follow me?

**Participant:** Not exactly.

**Bashar:** All right. Relax. We will take another approach. What is it in your life that you find very exciting, very enjoyable, more than anything right now? If you wish, anything at all. Guess.

**Participant:** Communication. With intimate communication with animals and people.

**Bashar:** All right. You feel you identify with animals very strongly?

**Participant:** Yeah. Well, with some animals like C dog. That's that. All right. Why not others? 'Cause I haven't... very good. Why not? 'Cause those are pretty much the animals you can have physical contact with. And something... oh, really? You're going to have physical contact with any animal on your planet? Well, the on... they're the ones that you can cuddle more. They're more soft than like lizards and snakes. Hippos.

**Bashar:** All right. Now allow me to say hippos. All right. Now allow me to say in terms of the energy, all animals are equally soft, for they are all guides, and they are all here out of the unconditional love to allow you to see yourself and certain portions of yourself reflected back from them to you about portions of yourself you are not willing to face because you are judging that they are not worth facing. You follow me?

**Participant:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** Are you overly concerned with the idea of cowardness?

**Participant:** Yeah. Probably. Yeah, probably.

**Bashar:** All right. Do you think that you feel someone judged you very harshly for something they considered to be cowardness at at some point?

**Participant:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** Why do you think that is? That something you have created in your physical life at times? The idea of accepting a judgment against yourself that you are being cowardly, and accepting that someone else is judging you, has this scenario been created in your present life?

**Participant:** Yes. No. Maybe. Yeah.

**Bashar:** All right. Now we are not judging this. This is simply one of the many symbols that individuals in your planet have created for themselves to act out, to act through through now. Relax. Relax. Everything that you do, everything that you do is a perfect manifestation of the idea you are doing at the moment. There is no need to strive for Perfection. You will never reach it because you are already perfect. You follow me?

**Participant:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** Do you understand that idea? Everything that you do is exactly a perfect representation of the thing you are doing. Is it not? It is not something else. It is the thing you are doing and is perfect for what you are doing as that thing, whether it is positive or negative. It is still a perfect representation of that idea. Yes or no?

**Participant:** Mhm.

**Bashar:** All right. Then understand everything you do is perfect. Nothing is less perfect than anything else. Nothing is more perfect than anything else. You do not have or do things that are a lesser piece of a greater idea. You are not trying to better yourself. You are simply choosing to become different from one moment to the next because the differences are what exemplify the idea of the purposes you have chosen to be physical for. Each and every Act, act that you do, whether positive or in your eyes negative, is still a perfect manifestation of that act. Now, if you find that that act creates unpleasantness for you, that idea, then you are free to know that because all acts are equal to every other act you do, you do not have to judge yourself for having done one act over another. But now you may simply understand you have given yourself the opportunity to make a preference. Prefer another act and know that you can do it just as easy as you did the other act you didn't like, because all acts are equal. There is no need in this way to judge yourself a coward for not doing something. You follow me?

**Participant:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** How do you feel? Better?

**Participant:** All right.

**Bashar:** Now allow me to tell you that the area of that pain was where you were first struck when you were executed for cowardice. Okay. Cowardice. Okay. In this way you will find yourself integrating this idea in your dreams, and you will allow yourself to breathe and allow that area of your body to receive the same life, the same oxygen, the same blood, because that area of your body which you have focused all the idea upon of your supposed failure in someone else's eyes has been being deprived of your life's blood. Let it flow back the warmth and the energy it deserves. It the totality of your being deserves to live. Recognize that you exist. Yes or no?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Did you have to do anything to deserve to exist? Answer is no. Creation created you without you having to do anything to earn your existence. You follow me?

**Participant:** Yeah. Thank you very much for allowing yourself to be a loving reflection of your own self-worth.

**Bashar:** You may all take a short break. Great. Allow me to say first of all, along the lines we were just discussing: just as in your Society you had formed the habit of thinking of responsibility as blame instead of freedom of choice, you have also thought of the idea of vulnerability as weakness instead of strength. Understand in this way that when you know you are always on your own path and that everything that occurs in your life is serving the purpose you chose to be physical for, then you can know that anything that happens in your life will always have positive manifestation. And in allowing yourself to be open and trust yourself in that way, then you can understand that you can be wide open to any idea, totally vulnerable, and as such completely in the center of your strength.

**Participant:** Thank you. Thank you. Sharing. Sure.

***

# Conversation 16: Parallel Realities and Nightmares

**Participant:** All right. Uh, I've been experiencing while I was in the waking State uh, what I perceive to be sort of a a parallel thought or a parallel reality. And I was wondering uh, if from your perspective or in the fourth density, would that be something uh along the lines of actually perceiving U more of your Consciousness or different parts of your Consciousness at once parallel? Yes. Or would it be more of a high frequency if you wish uh uh flipping back and forth between them? What is the difference? I guess there's no difference. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Sure. Proceed. Recently I went through about 3 weeks of uh, when I was sleeping I would be in really heavy sweats and uh so forth. And when that finally ended, I felt like my awake state or how described uh has been unfolding very nicely and and things have been really uh well been very nice for me. All right. But now in my... you talk about dreams and living your dreams and so forth. Uh, my dreams have been so terrible I hate to go to sleep.

**Bashar:** All right. Now let we say first of all that many times individuals on your planet will choose to work out the idea of negative manifestation in their dream state so they don't have to experience in your physical state. And would you rather experience it in your physical state?

**Participant:** Not those kind of dreams.

**Bashar:** Then allow yourself to recognize that you are working through ideas in your dream state and is all right to do so. Otherwise, you will create them in your physical reality because you have chosen to experience the ideas One Way or Another. You Follow Me?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Now does that make it seem a little bit easier to go to sleep?

**Participant:** Yeah. Yeah. As long as I... there's some dreams where you you can say to yourself I know I'm dreaming, and there's some dreams that uh...

**Bashar:** Oh, very good. Very real. All right. Both are real in a sense. Now understand that when you say in your dream that you know you are dreaming, automatically you can know you are out of body. You follow me? Those... those are the good ones. They are all beneficial to you in one way shape or form. Nothing is good or bad, right or wrong. It is all a valid idea to show yourself facets of your being that you wish to explore to integrate within yourself. You follow me? Yes. Allow yourself to recognize them no matter what they are to be valid experiences, and you will find that you can even enjoy the negative ones. You will learn how you can enjoy the idea and you can turn them around in mid-dream to have positive outcome. You follow me?

**Participant:** I do.

**Bashar:** Now recognize also that when you quote-unquote "wake up" and quote-unquote "remember" the quote-unquote "dream," you are not remembering an actual experience you have had. An actual experience... what you call the dream is the best symbolic interpretation your outer physical conscious mind can make of what you went through. Many times in this way your physical conscious mind, because it is what contains the idea of judgment, will judge that what you went through was a negative experience and give you that memory. Whereas the experience itself is not negative, only because perhaps if you are not integrating within yourself and trusting yourself, the outer aware conscious mind feels that when you do certain things in your dream reality it is a threat to your physical Consciousness because it cannot understand it, because it is forced to face other portions of itself that many times you have told it you do not want to face. So it will tell you, "Well, you have just had something very scary." It is only doing its job. It is reflecting to you the idea that you feel there are portions of yourself that are not worth discovering. And so when you make those connections, no matter how positive they are intrinsically, your physical mentality upon Awakening will tell you, "Oh, you did it again. You made that connection. You know we don't like that. Is very scary. Oh, negative dream."

**Participant:** Negative dream. Very bad for me. Very bad.

**Bashar:** That is because you are telling your physical outer aware Consciousness that somehow it is in a sense less desirable in this way than the integration taking place, rather than simply being a part of it. Rather than giving it a positive job to do, you follow me?

**Participant:** Yes. And all that would be okay except for the idea that I I think I have it in my mind that eventually it will all come together as one dream, unless I'm crazy, even you know what I mean? Like the the so-called awake state and the state will all eventually become one.

**Bashar:** Yes. And you are afraid that it will become a nightmare, a living nightmare.

**Participant:** Yeah. Parts of it.

**Bashar:** All right. Why?

**Participant:** I guess because uh I have on occasionally... all right. So what?

**Bashar:** Well, I is that what you prefer?

**Participant:** I wouldn't desire that.

**Bashar:** All right. Then why do you feel in this way? You must give into the idea of your fear. As soon as you do so, that is what generates the energy required to create that idea. Now understand, you are dreaming right now. Do not mean to scare you, but you are. You are dreaming right now. That's what I understand. All right. There is no separation. Then understand that the idea of living your dream is no more mysterious than what you are doing right now. It is not going to feel, so to speak, so much different than what you are doing right now, except that you will be consciously aware you are preferring choices. You will be conscious of the idea that your reality and your dream reality is one thing, as you are right now. Since you are conscious of that right now, and since I will assume you are having a relatively good time, you can recognize that this preference as it exists right now as you are making it is something you can continue if that is what you prefer. But recognize that the moment you fear something will happen, you are saying you believe that that is a stronger energy, as if that were possible. You follow me? Your belief will create your reality. Fear that something will happen is the same thing as saying you believe it will happen, which creates the reality. You are saying somehow that the negative idea intrinsically has more innate strength than the idea of your positive preference. You are the only one giving it that idea. And you are never out of control, even when you create a scenario in which it seems you are out of control. But you are controlling the creation of that seemingly out-of-control scenario, so you are still in control. Allow me to suggest to you that perhaps of best assistance will be the simple phrase: "So what?"

**Participant:** All right.

**Bashar:** You have nightmares? So what. All right. You are afraid that your dream reality and your physical reality will blend in a negative way and your life will become a living hell? So what. It is all creative. The moment you enjoy your living hell, it becomes heaven. You follow me?

**Participant:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** Because you know it is serving a purpose, and if you allow it to be a positive reflection of the idea, knowing that there are no interruptions in your life, then positive manifestation of the idea will be the only physical reality you will be able to experience. You follow me?

**Participant:** Thank you.

**Participant:** All right. Are you saying that if we had no fears, nothing negative would happen to us?

**Bashar:** In a sense. Understand there is no natural emotion which is negative. Fear can be a very positive idea in your physical reality. It is that innate idea in a positive sense that keeps you from stepping over the side of a cliff. You follow me? Simply when you judge that the emotion, the vibration, the energy is in and of itself negative is when you allow it to go further than its natural state and create the artificial shell which creates the idea of judgment, separation, guilt, rage, hatred, and all the ideas. Not anger. Anger is in and of itself a positive emotion. It allows you to clarify and align yourself with what you know yourself to be. That is all. And usually will only last 10 to 15 of your seconds. When it lasts longer, you are judging it to be negative and creating the idea of fixation and hate and judgment and guilt and resentment and frustration and all those ideas, artificial shells of emotionality. Now in this way, if you know you will always contain positive and negative energy, then you can simply know that they are equal and make your preference in this way, and thus you will not experience a negative manifestation of fear but only all the positive manifestations of all the ideas that you contain. You follow me?

**Participant:** I follow you. It just seems um harder than it sounds.

**Bashar:** You mean it sounds too simple? That is your choice to view it that way.

**Participant:** Well, I'm trying to understand it.

**Bashar:** You are what I'm trying to understand. It because it is the second time we have spoken on this subject. All right. Why do you prefer to try to understand rather than simply taking it for granted that on whatever level you need to you do understand and get on with your life?

**Participant:** Yeah. Well, you see, the only process you really need is life itself to create more life to live. And when you stop and analyze yourself, you are not allowing yourself to be conscious of the momentum. You think it has stopped and you think you must do something before it will start again. All you have to do to know you understand is to keep on living, and then you will see you understand because your life will become the ecstatic explosion of coincidence that will attract to you all the situations, people, and relationships that will prove to you that you understand if you let them. You follow me?

**Participant:** I follow you. But again the idea seems easier than the actuality of...

**Bashar:** All right. Understand that having that idea for you right now serves your purpose in what you want to learn about yourself, and thus you are still acting within the idea of creating what you need to serve your purpose. So it is still simple. The idea of forming the block for you serves a purpose, and so you are very automatically, very simply still forming that idea, and that is one of your creations, and it is not any less than any other creation. You follow me?

**Participant:** I follow you. Mm. Uh, there's one other question I would like to ask you. I noticed um, this is rather new for me. It's the second time I see you. I noticed that you very often use the phrase "so what." What is the difference between "so what" and apathy?

**Bashar:** Oh, very good. Very good. In this way, recognize that when we use the phrase "so what" or the vibration in that way, we are simply allowing you the opportunity to recognize that many of the, in your terms, Vicious Cycles or negative habits that your Society creates for itself come from placing too much importance on any aspect of it in the sense of needing, needing certain things to feel complete, and not allowing yourself to Simply know you are complete in order to discover the fact that you are complete. And so we simply exercise a relaxation by saying, take the importance of having to know it, and when you relax you will find you automatically do know it. That is why we say "so what." It is not apathy, which is in this way non-action, but it is the allowance of action to come reflecting back to you that you are putting out. It is saying, open all the doors, what do you care what comes through since you know it is all of service? So what? Why judge it? That is all we are saying. "So what" means no need to judge. No need to judge. You follow me?

**Participant:** Yes. Will this have clarified the idea?

**Bashar:** Definitely.

**Participant:** Thank you.

***

# Conversation 17: Venusians and Intestinal Issues

**Participant:** That all right. You um, I have two questions. All right. All right. Uh, I I was told that I came in uh with the Venusians at one time, uh, and there were three of us, two females and one male, and that uh at this period that the three would come back together again. And I wanted to know if those three were aspects of myself or whether those are two other beings that I I am yet to meet in this lifetime.

**Bashar:** Now first of all, understand there is no difference between those two ideas.

**Participant:** Right. I do. All right. So uh, but what I felt was if it was the first, that would be integrated in the one physical body, the three consciousnesses, or if it was the latter, it would appear in three different bodies.

**Bashar:** Our perception at this time is that it will be in three bodies.

**Participant:** Bodies. Okay.

**Bashar:** Now there is a possibility that even though you will perceive it as two separate bodies, there will be aspects of those individuals that at times may appear to you in less than a physical form of solidity as you understand physicality from time to time. And also understand that the idea you call a Venusian connection takes place on an entirely different dimensional density of experience other than the one you are in. You follow me?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Because in this way there is no, in your density, physical life on that planet. In other densities there is.

**Participant:** Right. I understand. All right. Um, the second question I have is that um, 10 years ago and 11 years ago I had um an attack in the middle of the night of Twisted intestines, and in which case they both times they were operated on, took out most of my intestines. And uh, since that time I've had difficulty in digestion and so forth. I know that must come from some cause, and I was wondering if you can tell me what it was.

**Bashar:** That all right. All we can say right now at this time is it was in a sense a massive psychic allergic reaction to the idea of being physical on this planet. You follow me?

**Participant:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** You were still in that way used to the other vibrational density and created a portion of your being that rebelled against the idea of taking in the sustenance of this world. You could not digest it. You follow me?

**Participant:** What can allow your integration to continue?

**Bashar:** All right. Yes. You will serve your purposes as you have created them. This will not interfere.

**Participant:** All right. Yes. Thank you.

***

# Conversation 18: Hot Baths, Affirmations, and Hernia Surgery

**Participant:** One moment. One male energy. Okay. You. Thank you. Um, really a couple three weeks ago uh, you recommended that I take hot baths, and um, I've been doing that. And in meditation I got the idea that the condition that this was for nice related to some kind of an incident, although I didn't get specific on incident, that I felt that I should have gotten in hot water for, to use our terminology. That's right. Can you um add any anything to that my understanding there?

**Bashar:** Not on that alone. No.

**Participant:** Okay. Um, what else did you take it to? How far did you take it beyond that idea?

**Participant:** Yes. Well, um, perhaps what I'm about to say... well, we answer that question. Perhaps I've been doing some affirmations. All right. For the purpose of viewing uh my reality through how I feel about it rather than what I think about it. All right. And it's been uh very interesting. Um, I'm just basically beginning to feel my way, quote-unquote, into this experience of not thinking about things but feeling them. Okay. And um, I was wondering if you any further suggestions that would uh help me to um continue this process.

**Bashar:** No. Okay. You are doing fine.

**Participant:** Okay, sir. We may... oh. Um, okay. Uh, I have two questions. One of them is uh, recently uh, I developed a hernia and had it fixed about 8 weeks ago. And when I came to, in fact I wasn't all the way too... I I was still like paralyzed, but all right, you were a bit more fro... I I experienced the heaviest grief charge that I've ever experienced this lifetime, and it was just unbelievable. And the water was pouring out from my eyes and I still couldn't move or cry or anything. Do you remember why?

**Bashar:** No. I you were out of your body. Yeah. And you experience the idea of having to come back with a negative judgment. With a negative judgment. And so you created the idea of grief because of the great Beauty you felt in the non-physical experience, because you were comparing the idea of being trapped in the body, which you are not. Follow me?

**Participant:** Oh. I I was backed over that me. It was my lump. My throat was so big I could hardly get air by it.

**Bashar:** It was the closest you have come to consciously remembering one of your out-of-body excursions which you do all the time. All of you do when you are asleep.

**Participant:** Okay. Then the other thing is um, I was listening to a tape yesterday uh by somebody else that he was discussing uh hydrogen, um, the separating of hydrogen and oxygen, taking water and getting energy from it. And it was a very simple way uh of doing this that you could even do in your own homes. And I was thinking, wow, if somebody could develop something like that. So what I'm asking you is, do you have any ideas how this could be simply done instead of using so much energy to do it like we do now? Like maybe the lasers?

**Bashar:** You are working on it to some degree. It will be a vibrational resonance idea. Yes. You can use the idea you call electricity to some degree to In This Way form the combination of the idea in this way you call hydrogen and oxygen to form the substance you call water. In this way, recognize it will involve more understanding of the magnetic properties of those particular elements, but you can allow them to attract in a cold fusion process in this way relatively simply. Some individuals upon your planet are working with this idea right now. A lot more efficient than solar energy. And it depends on what type of solar energy you are talking about.

**Participant:** Well, the kind that we know about.

**Bashar:** All right. But in this way you are also creating other ideas of solar energy. All of these ideas can come together. Now, if you find the idea so fascinating, why not give it a shot yourself? Use your imagination. That which you find exciting and fascinating is an indication of your curiosity barometer pointing the way to something that you can do. Understand you have been involved in these types of Endeavors in past lives. In this way you can bring that portion of yourself to the Forefront, be that self, and you can have some insight as to how some of these ideas might be accomplished with your physical technology today.

**Participant:** I was just thinking how wonderful it would be, you know, if we have be so dependent on the oil company... yay.

**Bashar:** You have created them to be dependent upon. If you are changing your mind, then you will find that the idea of your physical reality will change along with it. No need to judge what you have created. It has served your purpose.

**Participant:** Thank you.

***

# Conversation 19: Spacecraft Propulsion and UFO Encounter

**Participant:** May I have three questions for you? I'm interested in knowing how you know spacecraft is powered, and secondly, could you be a bit more elaborate maybe... what is your second question?

**Bashar:** Uh, how uh it may be duplicated on a smaller scale on Earth. All right. What is your third question?

**Participant:** Uh, the third question deals with something which happened when I was about 70 years old. I was out in this large F [field?] and I saw these uh big disc of glowing light and the ladder going up to it. And as I approached it, it started retracting away from me, and I kept running towards it and it kept getting further and further away, and then it just took off. I was just wondering what significance that might have. Significant. I wanted to climb, climb that ladder.

**Bashar:** Yes. And as such, it gave you the opportunity to instill that sense of curiosity in you that would allow you to do so in your own life, uhhuh, so that ultimately you may create for yourself an equality with that idea and meet them on their own level, if you follow me.

**Participant:** Uh, in other words, it was a craft of some some type, right?

**Bashar:** And they recognized the Perfection of the timing of the coincidence that you were there just to see the retract, because they knew what kind of a symbol it would create in you.

**Participant:** Yeah. I remember that very clearly up to this day and I've always wondered about that.

**Bashar:** All right. Very good. Now allow me to say again briefly that upon your planet you have already several times duplicated, as you say, in a smaller scale, some of the effects of our spacecraft. Much of this information has been suppressed by your government. Mm. You can begin to explore this idea again, however, with what you term to be rapidly rotating conductors—that which you call Copper—in disk form. And in this way, you may find that by rotating it approximately what you turn to be 2300 revolutions per minute, you will find you will be able to generate certain magnetic fields that will allow you the beginnings of the explorations of the tappings of the energy field around your planet. In this way, recognize that you will eventually allow yourself to come into recognition of all the different ways in which you can utilize light, and that all the ideas of all the energy you are experiencing are different variations of the same light energy. In this way, we will take the starlight you will find in space and we will amplify it to such a degree through the ideas of again rotational conductors of a higher frequency that we will create microwave Fields round and about our spacecraft. In this way, that will allow us to unlock from one reality and reinstate the idea of the locational property within the navigational coordinates or the identity of the craft, which will allow it in this way to Simply cease existing at location A and take up Residence at location B without having traveled the intervening distance. You will find that this light energy can be Amplified and stored by crystalline matrices of the idea you call carbon and magnesium interlaced in such a way as to be a metal Crystal of a degree of Purity you have not yet achieved upon on your planet. There will be the opportunity to create what we turn to be the flash Matrix, and in this way you will find that the energy will be transferred through this flash Matrix and Amplified down into the rotating cylinders, which again will be a variation of the IDU called magnesium and copper—not exactly, not literally, not in the way you understand those elements, and you have not refined them to that point. But you will find in this way that when it revolves, it will amplify the energy to such an extent that it will embed itself in the fibers in the hole that are again Crystal nature to some degree. And in this way, they will cause the field to rotate in specific directions about the craft, and whenever any of these rotating fragments are reversed, it will have different effects within the field. It will be an unlocking in space or it will be an unlocking in time. You follow me?

**Participant:** U. Can I ask you another question related to that? How large should the rotating discs be if I wanted to experiment with?

**Bashar:** All right. We'll be up to you. Allow us to suggest that you begin with what you turn to be 6 in in diameter, right, and approximately in your terms one-fourth of your inch thick.

**Participant:** Uh, and what kind of power source should I use to have them rotate at that?

**Bashar:** You may use any type of what you turn to be electric generator to cause the initial rotation. If you put a ring of what you turn to be electromagnets around the outside of the spinning disc, when it reaches a certain point in this way, you will find it will begin to energize the magnets and the magnets will keep the rotation going. It will reach a certain level. You will be able in this way to measure the amplification of the energy, and you will have the beginnings of the understanding of the creation of that bubble, that field.

**Participant:** 6 in and half in? Right. Quarter, quarter. I'm sorry.

**Bashar:** Do not be sorry. Half an inch will also be all right.

**Participant:** Okay. And the electromagnets, how big should they be?

**Bashar:** That is up to you so that you can get at least 20 around the disc.

**Participant:** Okay. This should be in a circle right around the... yes. I see. Thank you. What about their polar orientation?

**Bashar:** North top, south bottom. Any fi strength for those? Mm. Yes. For the first experiment, it will not matter very much. Now, you may also research some of the literature which already exists, explore some of the ideas that have been undertaken by the individual in your Society you called Nicola Tesla.

**Participant:** Go back to... oh, much further. But Tesla... go back to oh much further, but understanding this way the individual understood much of the energy requirements. You will also find again in various obscure portions of your literature references to other devices in this way having been attempted. One individual of the name Townsend Brown will have been involved. Town... brown. Townend Brown.

**Participant:** U, these journals you talk about, could you... is it possible for you to give us a name of one or two?

**Bashar:** This will be all we can do at the moment. Thank you. I have sent... one moment. Yes.

***

# Conversation 20: The League, Dreams, and Anger

**Participant:** V. You then. You um, all right. A few months ago you uh, I was asking you about the network and the league, and you suggested that I would have a dream that would be a memory. And in fact, two days after he gave me that suggestion, I had a dream that was... I would like to share.

**Bashar:** All right. I felt that in the intervening months really do me a favor. Yes. Will you allow in this way first this individual, that individual, and this individual, and then share your story?

**Participant:** Of course. All right. Thank you. Proceed. Me. Female. Check your body. Okay. Um, prove it. I had a very short period of time today in which I was really angry at you.

**Bashar:** Oh, what?

**Participant:** I went to the bank and a friend of mine had given me a check that he signed over to me, and they wouldn't deposit it. And I got really because they said he had to be there for him for them to identify him. And I uh started... I went away and I was crying. I was really upset. And I started thinking about the rampa book that or something about Rampa that I read this weekend, in which apparently he... part of his uh, the way he talks to people is is he gives them things like uh, "I'm going to make a woman out of you," and "you're going to meet your soulmate in three months," and "uh, don't take this movie, wait for that movie because uh this is going to make you famous." I said, you get the idea.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant:** Um, and I got really mad because you don't do that.

**Bashar:** Not my style. I know.

**Participant:** Know. And then I realized that um, no matter when anybody says to you or pretends to say they're going to do or not do for you, you're still always doing it yourself. Of course. And um, then I just sat there and I cried for a while and let that go and knew that I was centering. Why? And uh, I started thinking back to what that was reflecting to me.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant:** Um, and what I got was that the bank teller in effect was telling me that there was part of myself that wasn't there, wasn't integrated, and therefore I wasn't allowing my entire abundance because all of me wasn't there. And since it was a male person that needed to be there, I figured that it was probably the male aspect of me that I needed to integrate, which is represented to me by action.

**Bashar:** So all right. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. How do you feel?

**Participant:** Good.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Thank you. How do you feel now?

**Participant:** I feel fine.

**Bashar:** Oh, good. I wasn't angry. You very long does not matter to me. I know because we always know that you are always only ever angry with yourself.

**Participant:** Yeah. I knew that too.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Thank you for allowing us to share in the co-creation of your anger which allowed you to align yourself with yourself.

**Participant:** Thank you. You're always welcome to be angry at me.

***

# Conversation 21: Extra Rib, Family Karma, and Pyrite

**Participant:** [Laughter] B. Two questions please. The first I have an extra rib and an extra vertebrae. I thought maybe you could tell me the significance.

**Bashar:** Restar people now. Understanding this way as well suggested, you are not alone. It is not all that unusual at this time, nor has it really ever been. However, recognize that there is some degree of symbology within this idea to other connections. Yes. To other civilizations, as there are many symbologies which reflect some of these ideas.

**Participant:** What is the other question?

**Participant:** Um, my father's brother married my mother's sister. This is probably not that unusual either, but and they had seven children. Between these four people and I feel like we've been in this thing for eons. All right. And I feel like it's finally beginning to crack loose. But I in a sense was wondering if you go also give some more elimination.

**Bashar:** Why?

**Participant:** I guess it's uh, seems to have caused a lot of pain, and I'm trying to find the best way that I can uh participate by being who you are.

**Bashar:** Thank. Now recognize that you have spun around each other for the all this cycle many times. Yes. Of the cycle of judgment and the cycle of separation. And now, yes, this family in a sense can begin to dissolve to form other families because now is the cycle of integration beginning. You follow me?

**Participant:** Yes. Integrate within yourself and you will create the idea of yourself, and you will create the idea of the fourth density family. You follow me?

**Participant:** Yes. Thank you. One Moment. One Moment. All right. Thanks. B. First I want to share before I ask a couple questions. I just love it when you guys talked of engineering stuff. It just Thrills because it's such a wonderful beautiful sharing of Consciousness on a scientific level. It's exciting. Oh. Um, next I have a couple L little baby questions. The first thing is pyrite. What is this pyrite? I love it. It's these cubicle crystals. Does it have any special significance besides that it grows out of the ground and makes cubes?

**Bashar:** In this way, you can recognize there are many variations of that idea, and again it is in Crystal and form. It is another type of idea of Crystal and embodies within itself again simply another exemplification of the many ways in which the electromagnetic force arranges itself. You can glean many ideas of relationships of different ideas to another relationship of another idea by simply exploring the substances.

**Participant:** Okay. Um, Sunday when I I had my experience, quote-unquote, of channeling, you know, in such a way, Panete was the guy that came through me. But I was always under the impression that most people who Channel don't remember. And I felt... I felt like I was standing on the left side of my head and this other energy was coming through me, and I kept saying, "Am I just pretending this is happening or is this happening?"

**Bashar:** It is not unusual first of all at the beginning for you to be completely consciously aware of what is going on, for you feel that is safer. You want to make sure everything is going all right. You also will find that it is not uncommon that you retain more or less some degree of that Consciousness. You follow me? Sometimes you will simply find that your Consciousness May divert itself in other ways, but you still know something is going on. You are still to some degree basically aware of it on some level, in some way, in some manner. You will simply become used to the energy as you have chosen to become and you will manifest your connection in your own unique way.

**Participant:** So I wasn't making it up?

**Bashar:** Okay. Don't answer. Don't answer. Um, finger. On one level, you are making everything, creating it.

**Participant:** All right. Right. I do understand that and it's true. Um, all of a sudden my finger... this I... you can't see it but you probably can lean it. But there's this finger... I don't know what you call it, the one beside the thumb... four finger. The four finger. There's just the index. It really index. Pointer. This one. This. Very good. Yes. Pointer. Yes. Pointer. Indicator. Index. The pointex indicator finger of mine. The third joint down, it's like itching really badly, and it's done that off and on. I just realized this has happened a lot before. Is there something going on with this energy that I can know besides that is itching? It seems like it's a symbol. Does it seem that way?

**Bashar:** Love you. Thank you for your reflection. [Laughter] Did you see that? How about this: as long as you allow the flow to keep going out, it will not pile up in the joint.

**Participant:** All right. Why do I want to nod to open it up that way? Huh? Or perhaps to get an idea that you have been eating away at yourself.

***

# Conversation 22: Bill’s Question on Mass Change & Speed of Light

**Participant:** Um, my question is this is for Bill. Do you remember Bill? My teacher in Atlanta? She met him last week. He wants to ask this question. I feel stupid even asking it.

**Bashar:** Why?

**Participant:** Because I tried to explain to him that there's no way... what I explain to him that his concept of this question has nothing really to do with your concept of tra. But you can explain that. Bill, listen, this is the part on the tape. This question list: as a body approaches the speed of light, yes, how do you, your people as Etians, yes, handle the mass change in the interstellar travel? Thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Thank you. First of all, recognize that there is an assumption in this way that we choose to approach that speed in the physical universe. There is no need to do this. The idea of the hyper jump does not involve travel in the physical universe, and in this way does not involve the buildup of mass. You follow me?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So if you were to travel at that speed in the physical Universe, yes, there would be a buildup. But also understand this: the field around our spacecraft isolates us from the universe. We are not in that way adding energy. We are our own self-contained universe, and to us, we are standing perfectly still. You follow me? Therefore, there is no buildup in the craft or for the craft, as the craft is not in the same universe.

**Participant:** So that does not defy Einstein's quote-unquote truth Theory fact that the mass builds up?

**Bashar:** Simply, you are not in the physical Universe in your Trel. You just change of life is the physical limit of the third density universe, but we do not travel in third density. Mm.

**Participant:** Thank you. Oh, thank you.

***

# Conversation 23: Dream of the League (Ocean Town)

**Participant:** All right. Thank you. I'm being patient.

**Bashar:** We are never patient.

**Participant:** Um, do I have to explain or can I just start in? Start. Okay. Start anyway. I had the dream two nights later that I suspect had something to do with the network. All right. Okay. I was in this place that did not look too unlike the Earth, however, it... we would describe it as an ocean town or a fishing Town. Very very much water. Very a lot of water. All right. Very much water. Very much water. And would show water. I was with a group of people who I cannot say I saw them physical in the dream. I have no idea who they were, but they were comrades. Now we were quote-unquote "sneaking around" doing some sort of a mission, and we had these instruments we were using light, I believe greens and blues, for two purposes. One was to communicate with each other. Yes. Secretly. The other was to influence those that we were trying to influence around us. We were also hiding from uh, I don't want to say negative entities, but why not?

**Bashar:** Well, that is what you felt.

**Participant:** At the time, yes. We felt them to be all right. Were you successful in hiding or did they find you in the dream?

**Participant:** I was never found.

**Bashar:** All right. Um, what about your friends?

**Participant:** No, we were never found. All right. This place seems so familiar and I know I've never been there in this life. All right. And I knew immediately when I woke up that it was the league or whatever. All right. Ter it. And I just wanted to know. I wanted some clarification about what was going on in that in that dream.

**Bashar:** Understanding this way at that time, the league undertook many such ideas you call raids. In this way, it was the idea that individuals who you sensed, or they sensed you, were going along for the ride, so to speak, who they sensed wished to join but were surrounded in this way by all the negativity. They thus tunneled in an energy sense through the town to arrive at those individuals' place of dwelling and take them out with them without anyone seeing them. You follow me? Now, sometimes they were caught, sometimes they were not.

**Participant:** I see. I assume it to me not my particular band was not caught.

**Bashar:** You were not caught, but you were going along in order to learn some of the ideas about what the league stood for. It was very early on. Very early on in your overall being's desire to form the network for this planet. You were simply patterning yourself after them in this way. But now recognize they know that they have in your terms made a mistake. The idea of fighting fire with fire is what got them destroyed.

**Participant:** Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:** Therefore, it is now the idea of offering this planet the opportunity to make a preference between positive and negative manifestation rather than having to fight the idea of negative manifestation with more negative energy. You follow me?

**Participant:** Yes. Definitely. Fighting fire with fire only makes a bigger fire. So that was one of the things I learned. Yes. Um, where was this place?

**Bashar:** It was simply one of the planets within one of the dominated systems on a timeline that I can understand in a you just a general sense. It was both in your last life. It is now. It was several hundred thousand years ago. Mm. Because it is a parallel Time Track.

**Participant:** Yes. Was Carol with me at this time?

**Bashar:** Yes. We were physical beings.

**Participant:** Yes. Roers? Yes. Not humanoid?

**Bashar:** Are we were humanoid. Humanoid. Yes. Humanoid. Not human. Not exactly. Okay. You were already in the league.

**Participant:** Right. Um, what about my husband? What about him? From what was he with us? What do you think?

**Participant:** I've had very similar dreams. I feel that I was definitely a part of it.

**Bashar:** You think you have been together that long? Do you not?

**Participant:** No. Not not.

**Bashar:** All right. Very good. Sparks along way. SP Sparks along the way.

**Participant:** Yes. Um, oh shoot. Oh, there was another question about that. Um, oh, I believe this might have been a um, oh, I believe this might have been a symbolic representation, but this is going to be very humorous. I think.

**Bashar:** All right. There was always enjoy a good laugh.

**Participant:** There was this one part where now I believe I was caught. All right. And I was laying on this C... C... and I don't know whether I was projecting this to them, but in the dream I was pretending that I was pregnant. All right. Now my conscious mind during the dream was saying, "Well, I have to go to the bathroom and that's what this is." But then they were treating me as if I was pregnant. And right. And I believe that this is becoming clearer the more I'm discussing it. Go ahead. And I believe that because they thought I was pregnant, they might have let me go or they... they were easier with me. They were easier.

**Bashar:** Yes. And you got away. Mm.

**Participant:** Now, was I... you would have been detained by the local officials.

**Participant:** Yes. It was definitely local. It was in this fish fishing Village. Yes. Um, was I manipulating matter to make myself or my image to make myself...

**Bashar:** You were identifying yourself as you had been taught from the idea you learned from the league to identify yourself so completely with a reality that they could not help but perceive the idea that you were in fact pregnant. This was how they saw you.

**Participant:** I think it's also um interesting that I had this dream like 3 months ago, and I've never felt the need to discuss until now. And the last few days I've been having this feeling that I this is coming up now. And um, Hyperion told me last night that after my contact in December, everything is going to just fall into place. It is falling into place right now. I know, but it always has been. He used the term it will be downhill. All right. So I I don't know what what I'm trying to say. I... it's all right.

**Bashar:** Yes. You do. Thank you. Thank you. B.

***

# Conversation 24: Townsend Brown Era and Hypercubes

**Participant:** Yes. May here toson Brown. Could you elaborate on what era you're talking about?

**Bashar:** Relatively recent as you count time within time within your 50s in the United States and also England.

**Participant:** I see. Um, I have one more question. It's about the significance of um of a of a figure. Um, cubes within cubes. Um, I'm just curious what dimensionality that that has or what significance that has.

**Bashar:** Can be representative of the idea you call hyper Cube. Fourth dimensionality in a sense or fifth.

**Participant:** Yes. I keep drawing that figure for the past couple of years and I was just curious.

**Bashar:** Go into yourself in the same manner the cube goes into itself. It is that symbol for you. That is where all your answers are: in the center of yourself. The physical idea represented by the cube in this way, as you say, the four corners of your Earth figuratively, but inwardly go into the center of yourself and all the ideas of your physic physical reality will be answered as you unfold.

**Participant:** But this figure seems endless.

**Bashar:** Of course it is. So are you.

**Participant:** Thank you.

***

# Conversation 25: Final Questions (Belief Systems, Blending Consciousness, Sex)

**Participant:** One moment. There will be in your terms a few more of your minutes remaining. You than you um, just briefly relating to uh the question last question that I asked. Um, I feel that I'm bumping up against a belief system of mine that um I have I guess hidden in some respects that are um not permitting me to change conditions that I want to change. And I'm wondering if can you give me a hint a way to go change yourself? Change how you act.

**Participant:** Okay. I I think that it's not so hidden as I think it is. Of course not. I think I'm staring it right in the face and I know it and I'm I'm making...

**Bashar:** There's also no need to assume that you must make some major obvious change. Keep living. Again, life is the only process you need to create more life to live. Right? You will experience everything you chose to experience in this life one at a time exactly as you chose within the timing to experience it. Okay. Do not be harsh with yourself.

**Participant:** All right. Guys, uh, two nights ago as I created transition from waking to dream reality, I vibrated the idea of blending Consciousness with your civilization. Nice. And uh, did you have a good time?

**Bashar:** Yes. It was fun.

**Participant:** Um, and the last thing I remember is waking up in a dream uh with a very strong sense that I had actually been there, whever it was. Did you perceive... do you remember somebody saying something to you like "welcome aboard"?

**Participant:** Um, no. I remember small people all that all seem very excited, but I could not understand anything they were saying.

**Bashar:** Welcome aboard. Thank aboard. Thank you. Briefly. Yes.

**Participant:** Um, this question concerns sex, and when I speak of it, I I mean specifically sexual intercourse between two partners with a deep fulfilling love. Um, can sex with love contribute to a Soul's attainment of a higher plane density or Dimension? Or or does it have anything to do with the prevention of a soul from attaining these goals?

**Bashar:** Not in unconditional love. Mhm.

**Participant:** Okay. Thank you. Oh, thank you.

**Bashar:** It is one of the expressions of physicality that represents the idea of your connection to everything, to all that is. Mm.

**Participant:** I was wondering because um some uh beings, Jesus, uh, Muhammad, others have abstained from sex, uh, seemingly in order that may explain a few things.

**Bashar:** Understand in this way that much of what they have said was misinterpreted. Much of their lives unknown.

**Participant:** Okay. Thank you. Me. You're a great stud. Any any idea that you can in this way perceive, you can become. And in this way, this is all those individuals ever said. And allow me to remind you that the individual you call Jesus was very far of saying, "My joy I leave with you." He did not qualify what Joy needed to be. You follow me?

**Participant:** Have you been sending messages?

**Bashar:** Me? No. Who? ER to who? To your friend? All the time. All right. Is there something specific you wanted him to show up for tonight?

**Participant:** I I wasn't sending for him to come tonight other than well, today maybe I was.

**Bashar:** All right. Confusion in the time track. Mhm. Um, yeah, that's true. All right. They send their love.

**Bashar:** [Applause] You once again allow me to extend to you our unconditional love and the recognition of the reflection of your own unconditional love in the creation of your reality as it is. In this way, it all serves your purpose. And in being so willing Now to create within your reality the idea of the blending of your Consciousness with our Consciousness and every other conscious with all that is, you can recognize that your civilization, our civilization, all civilizations are the sharing that continues forever.
