---
heading: Part 1
title: "Hologram"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1985-12-04
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 44
tags: ['scientology', 'library', 'oversoul']
---


The Oversoul chooses the concept that will be dealt with.

But your mental self that which you consider to be a product of your personality chooses the methodology by which you will examine the concept in physical life. Could you tell us what those concepts are?

There are many. It is not that there is a limitation of concepts.

The oversoul self chooses the general concept such as the idea of exploring self-empowerment through abundance. 

An individual's personality and mentality methodology may be to go about exploring this idea in many ways. 

Can be through the expression of polarities positive and negative. can be through many different avenues and interactions with different other individuals. It is up to the personality to determine the methodology by which the whole consciousness will explore the idea of the relationship to the concept of abundance. But it is the oversoul choice to explore that idea.

Now there's any particular methodology. 

if you have one methodology with that can you uh infer which concept that you're exploring when you if you look up in my life and I say well this is my the methodology I've chosen in this particular month or so to to explore a concept from that methodology can I infer what the concept is by using your imagination yes your imagination is the tool and the translation device and the bridge and the link between your physical personality and the oversoul self, the dream conscious you.

Could you explain? I assume that drug addiction for example is a methodology that a lot of people are using right now. 

Bashar: Yes. Can be for many reasons. It can be for the individual to explore the overall concept of their own self-empowerment and responsibility and reliability on themselves without the idea of needing a tool can be the exploration of the idea of separation of the self and discovering many portions of the self hidden within the personality as you create those different levels within your consciousness and may find that this is a methodology for bringing some of them to the surface.

Asker: I spoke to you last week about my living situation. As you suggested, I went to this particular house the next day.

I found out that the people who are buying the house, even if they buy it, right? Well, so just as we also suggested, did we not that this might be one of the possibilities? 

Bashar: Yes, but there isn't there are no alternatives now. There was nothing. There are always there are many alternatives, I'm sure, but there were none. Oh, but not one I think I should have. 

Expectation on your life path is what you are doing to yourself. If you realize there are always alternatives, allowing those alternatives to be the alternatives you want because they exist in your reality.

If they were not the ones you chose, they would not be able to be perceived by you. You mean that the I mean there are no interruptions in your life. There is nothing extraneous in your life. There is no slop in your life.

There is nothing that is in your life without a reason for being there. Is the purpose of all this to teach? It may be to teach you that you do not need patience if you are willing to enjoy your life and everything in it.

If you are busy enjoying yourself, you do not need patience which then creates impatience. Need of patience is what creates impatience.

We suggest you allow what alternatives you can perceive to be the alternatives you chose to explore. 

Then by dropping your expectation, you may allow yourself to see how one of these alternatives that does not seem connected to where you think you want to go may get you there quicker than any expectation you created because you will be busy enjoying yourself.


Time flies when you are having fun. You will not notice the passage of time. Things will happen very quickly. You will accelerate and lo and behold, as you say, you will find yourself at the place you wanted to be all along without ever having paid attention to exactly how you got there. You are going to put yourself on automatic pilot by enjoying your life as you create it. 

So, would you suggest that I just uh take whatever?

You do whatever you feel like doing with whatever alternatives you have created and attracted to yourself. Follow your intuition. Follow your excitement. Follow your curiosity.

Then it will not be a difficult decision. You will be acting on your instinct. 

Oh, white or white? Maybe two. Oh my.

As soon as I finished one thing something else would excite me. It was just like rolling for like a week. it's like every moment was thrilling was thrilling brushing my teeth whatever was exactly what I wanted to do at that moment.

now I feel a little disappointed because life doesn't feel that way it's like.

it's simply because you have now increased your scope of things of ideas. But you are still putting expectation that things should be like what you experienced as joyful before.

If you recognize that everything in your life as an opportunity, it will always be joyful whether or not you are actually experiencing or creating what you deem to be physiological joy during the experience or not.

There are many types of joy. It does not mean that you are not having a good time if you are not giggling at the top of your lungs.

I like to jump up and down.

Then feel free to jump up and down anytime you wish.


last week it was about 20 minutes when I was really bored and like nothing excited me you know why did you not listen to the silence there is much information in silence I guess I didn't I I don't know because you were judging the idea that that type of silence was not worth anything you're right could have been simply for the opportunity for you to rest could have been either all right somewhere

A woman said I am all that is. What the hell does that mean? I don't look at myself as all that is because I feel more like a fragment.

A hologram is a three-dimensional picture, created by a laser by an interference pattern which is a series of overlapping wave fronts that create a particular buildup of image in a certain way that it is omnidirectional in nature.

Take your hologram and cut it in half. You will have two whole holograms, not half and half. This is because major portions of the hologram contain the information of the total hologram. 

In this way, the universe is holographic.

The potential for every point in the universe to express every other point is equal.

The potential for any object to exist at every point exists equally at every point. Every point is reflected in every other point. 

In ancient India, the analogy is Indra's net made of reflective pearls. 

Each pearl has 360° spherical three-dimensionality and is perfectly reflective. It will pick up an image of every other pearl in the net. 

Thus, each pearl contains the sum of the total net.

Likewise you and every being within are all that is.

Even though it is a fragment, **it contains the potential of the whole.** 

And because the idea of potential is only an expression in a time frame and to all that is time does not matter that much and everything is simultaneous. 

**Then to all that is, and its point of view, potential is real.**

You are all that is equally as much as you are a fragment of all that is.

Paradox maybe. But only from your perspective.


But I said I only had two, but I got another one. 

I've been uh really attracted to read the New Testament these days. 

I have a Jehovah's Witness friend and we talk about it.

I keep having the feeling that there's something there but it's not like I have a hard time believing that somebody would come to earth and say that you have to like believe in me and I'll save you from your sins and that being did not say that.

that's what I wanted to know is if you knew because I had the feeling what I was reading wasn't what he really said and I was wondering if you could give me like a brief idea.

In written literature representing what that specific being said or did not say all that which you possess in your society that comprises written literature is approximately no more than 20% of all that was said and much of what is written is not what was said but an interpretation of what was said based upon the understanding of the individuals who heard it. 

Understand in this way the being you refer to simply knew that like himself all beings were of the same level and could express the idea of the Christ consciousness through themselves as he had done. 

As you allow yourself to be like this vibration that I am expressing to you, so you shall be like unto the idea of having what you turn to be heaven on earth. You will be of the vibration of that idea you call harmony. 

This is a very small favor. It Consists of 3 little letters, one tiny word in your language. 

I have such and such as you say with my fears, not but and. Oh, okay. I get it. Thank you. So, and yes. Uh, I'd like to know, you know, like when your imagination goes wild sometimes, like I had fears and I'd see like all kinds of army coming into my house and, you know, killing me all kinds of ways. Yes. All kinds of ways. 

Yes. Killing you with kindness perhaps. No, I never saw that. Oh my god. 

There's an expression you have upon your planet. All right. Proceed. Okay. And um you know you have those pictures in your imagination. You have imagination in my pictures.

Also when you have feelings about something. Yes. You have pictures to sometimes feel something sometimes. I regarding my fears you know that department of fears. Department of Very good. Um, how I'd like to know an exercise or something that could uh help me to see the difference between feeling something's going to happen really or I'm just letting my imagination going over.

Do you remember the library analogy?

All of the ideas, all of the pictures that you contain in your imagination are like a library full of books. You may always go into that library. You may sit there as long as you wish. You may read every book, good and bad, as you say, positive and negative, joyful and fearful, that exists within that library. 

You do not have to check them out until you choose to. You may simply know that everything you experience within your pictorial imagination is because you are willing on some level to experience that idea. 

Just because you are picturing it in your imagination does not mean you are saying that that is something you want to enact in your physical reality. 

The two are not necessarily connected. One does not necessarily I'll say forego the other. Okay. You can simply know that you are in your library reading all these fascinating books, positive and negative.

When you leave your library, what will be your physical reality will be the books you choose consciously to check out with you.

if one does experience something in one's imagination, would the conscious knowledge that um one has lived out whatever that was in one's imagination. Would knowing that um alleviate the idea of needing to experience it physically? Yes, sometimes. 
