---
heading: Part 1
title: "Addiction Is a Judgment"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1985-01-27
icon: Bashar
weight: 2
showdate: true
tags: ['suicide']
---


**Speaker 1 (Channel):** Tonight the idea again as a representative fight that time master as you understand it the great event the idea of governing. 

I say a sense of I'll say don't we represented what we say March 15 will be an idea expressed by alternative math process as you understand the greatness of all your individual personalities with regard to the idea that you are expressing for our planet at this time. 

That will be represented within also the natural cycle that you have created for yourself so that you might also increase your understanding and increase your momentum of the reality you have chosen to experience within the idea of your future selves. 

Understand that you have many of the same cycles within regulated within the overall idea and identity of your as day-to-day existence. 

Understand that they occur in those timings which your society has chosen are said to start to sleep through. 

Understand that the timing will be within your a cycle of energy represented by that 3 to 3:15 a.m. in your morning where I say your own personal transitional build that connection between the two hemispheres of your right and left brain will connect and form that I'll say state in which you can I'll say within modes of your own identity more of the forms of consciousness with which you are in I'll say contact. 

Those forms of consciousness that you are projected out from yourself and understand you'll be extensions of yourself and reflecting back to yourself to understand more and more of your own awareness of yourself. 

So you may again add your overall momentum of the idea of what you have chosen to be within the idea of your future self upon your planet. 

Now understand that as you have individual cycles in this way represented in your day-to-day existence, you will also have mass consciousness cycles also represented by moving in a sense a wave front and I'll say a vent horizon which will stand radiating from yourself as you project your reality round and about your sense and the echo of that reality I'll say forming back a reflection to yourself. 

As that echo crosses the outward bound of reality that you are sending in a sense then cresting waves as they overlap fill those doorways those moments those pockets instead of that neutral state of reality. 

That window state that unlocking from one idea or reality into I'll say the ability to perceive all realities at that time and allow yourself intense to reframe the idea in your self-image of what you are, what you have chosen, what you wish to be, what you desire. 

In a sense that level of excitement, that idea, that energy translates to your physical form as excitement will be then the channeling of that energy that I'll say you will begin to realign your idea of yourself. 

And when you reemerge from that doorway of that overlapping I'll say wave front that invent horizon then you will instead have unfocused yourself from one idea reality and refocus yourself into another idea reality I'll say in reality changing your entire universe. 

And you will begin to perceive again within the mass conscious idea of those individuals round and about you also to a degree having changed but realized they have not in a sense change that each individual contains all possibilities of all the ideas that they can be. 

Single that you have changed also your perception of yourself. 

You're doing your own self to another facet of yourself and as such don't also the facet or the vibration of every other individual which relates to that new perception of yourself which simply be that facet of those other individuals that you are perceiving at that time.




**Speaker 3:** When was the last similar incident the one coming up?

**Speaker 1:** That also with some degree of regularity that they will always be similar in that way. Understand also there are no alpha in your zones overlapping of different nations which you can at various times throw your orbit around your star but understand they will fluctuate from time to time within outside the regularity of that cycle. Understand that even within your own understanding of the idea of what is going to be the tool that you call astrology. Understand that you have designated this time period even in your own recognition call as the time period in which you are most connected to alter your psychic activities. You follow me?

**Speaker 3:** Question. Does that mean that someone born near the state would be involved in this cycle more specifically than...

**Speaker 1:** Understand they will have feed themselves with that alignment for very specific purposes allowing themselves to consciously understand through all the tools that are available to them at this time that they have and high degree of availability of expression that psychicness to them and as such they will manifest outside their cycle very creatively in that way. Follow me.

**Speaker 3:** Question. People born in different years on the same time period is that follow them also?

**Speaker 1:** Yeah we can understand that for the most part also there is I'll say that concurrence that agreement with the individuals who will form I'll say those individuals parents and the situations that will be forming this overall idea of the mass processes as it works out this understanding of the end of the cycle of this time represented by that beginning cycle in what is going to be the atlas 12,500 years of yourself as well understand that you are completing that idea now and as such each formulation each as you say manifestation is a typical reality will also have I'll say partly also in your thoughts to do with the overall momentum increasing to this point where it will be the transformation of your next 20 to 30 years you follow me each individual is following the pattern as he or she perceives themselves to be I'll say understanding the involvement of that pattern for their own I'll say course of choosing within the specific physical life of their choice but understand that within all that totality of the cycle there will be many many many chances in a sense many experiences for that physical life to be repeated different and various viewpoints of the self. You follow me? There are many many overlapping lies also in that way within each outset time period of your understanding of the present time. This individual is going to be the account of ourselves and understand that many times when you perceive an individual to be born they do overlap themselves in many diab Please if you follow me

**Speaker 3:** Question there's no need to ask if it is all right that first of all

**Speaker 1:** Say allow yourself first of all to seal the idea completely. Let there are no victims. You follow me. First of all, do you follow me? Then understand first of all that I'll say most of what is represented by individuals as that ideal you call habit that they cannot in a sense change will simply be because they allow themselves the idea of the opportunity of the judgment to experience that judgment from what to come to be outside themselves which is a projection back on themselves for the idea that they are innocent and not worthy in that way to allow the reality to change as such from the idea they have already gotten from that experience understand that each individual may choose to I'll say relate to certain experiences within their lives that you may turn in some way shape or form to be as you negative but understand simply that they can become caught within the idea of the judgment and allow themselves not to feel the experience for what any sense they have chosen that experience for but simply tend to become locked into the idea of the judgment itself and to continue repeating the cycle of that experience without further gain for themselves any understanding of themselves you follow me there that would begin to change to I would say in a sense not in terms of herbal I would say first of all great great great quantities of water first of all understand that there will be I'll say many ideas of imbalance now within the physical system understand that therefore the realignment of that physical system through physical means must take place through the most simple substances first there will then be Yes, that general cleansing and flushing out of the system first of them will be I'll say any opportunity for the natural imbalances, the natural alignment to I'll say take place within itself will also be I'll say alleviated to some degree by the infusion of that idea of that water. Do you follow me? But there will be a little more in your term stability for the system itself to understand further how to correct itself in that way and that will be the beginning of the sensing of the idea of any of those natural ideas you call of say fruit within the juice idea. Then to add what you feel to be those vitamins, minerals necessary again for the furthering of the idea of the balance of the system. And this way very gently can the physical form be nurtured back in that way through a very very I'll say gentle nurturing belief system gradual belief system to that centering of self where I'll say the self can then observe the self in the center of the creation and then having arrived at that point of finally observing the self in the center of that creation then they will understand the idea that they had projected for themselves in the first place and understand how to unlock themselves from the reality of the choosing how to unlock themselves from the sight which innocent has only been created not from the direct experiencing of that reality but only from the experiencing of that reality through the artificial screen of judgment and guilt. You follow me? Also understand that your own imagination and now your own connections at this time will allow you to place yourself exactly in that position necessary for you in a sense to sense what is necessary for this endeavor to take place to unfold. In that way most gentle in that way understand that an energy in yourself that you are now also moving toward your future self. Understand the gentility and the power within that gentility and understand that there is a great deal of art in these nurturing. You follow me?

**Speaker 2:** No, not until you feel that maybe are being

**Speaker 1:** There is the understanding first of all that it is not necessary I'll say for the analyzation of those situations for you to understand simply that you can take the effect that you now understand unfolding within your here now present life and simply understand yourself to boom first of all experiencing that reality because of the effect that was created which will reinforce the idea of the cause and then understand simply that there is no need for the analization of the specific event. If you have the effect, if you have the cause, if you have the reality created by the effect and the cause, simply you can understand yourself in creating a different effect which will also create a different cause. You follow me?

**Speaker 3:** Question. Do you think that her um her friend will um more clearly see what she's up to at the 15th and

**Speaker 1:** it doesn't matter what I think. What did you think?

**Speaker 4:** Yeah. like we're going to shop with her. I would hope that she be able to see mirror herself a little more, you know, that she is following adult.

**Speaker 1:** Is it this individual as that they understand the idea of the experience of the mirror of the mass consciousness at this time? I do. Understand that if you allow yourself to experience that reflection within your reality totally, you will be offering that reality to the best of your ability for that individual to share that idea of yourself as well. Do you follow me?

**Speaker 3:** Question. Why have you communication? Why has the increase as you say in speed?

**Speaker 1:** Understand? And simply it is the formulation of the idea from the channel at arriving at a closer point and I'll say relative viewpoint with respect to what you call to be the future self. Understand that this represents more accurately in your terms the rate at which the conceptual formation and telepathic information arises within the channel simply now it is reflected more accurately in that way. You follow me?

**Speaker 3:** Yes. Question right now.

**Speaker 1:** Again, understand that the transformation you are I'll say creating for yourself at this time will allow you to realign yourself more towards your idea of your future self and as such you will understand the idea as an increase in your own momentum.

**Speaker 3:** Question is true that we can understand we can hear twice as fast as we can speak or comprehend.

**Speaker 1:** understand that what is going to be your telepathic comprehension is faster than that. Yet simply that is one of the ideas that you have been experiencing yourself within the limitation of the physical reality as you understand it. Simply that you have operated on a level of what you found to be vibratory limitation that allows you to ignore the idea of telepathic communication simply because it is quick and subtle and you're not listening. Now as you increase your vibration you will more match the idea on which telepathic communication takes place and therefore you'll be able to hear it more clearly in that way. You follow me

**Speaker 4:** questioning experience when I went home seemed like I was undergoing some kind of u I think it was similar to the other time that I went home and I had some interesting experiences but almost seemed like this time I was um traveling quite a bit and it was almost the uh the uh the force. It almost seemed like I was like uh caught up in some real strong force uh right around my body and it almost lifted it off the my bed and it was kind of scary. Uh but I'm glad I realized that fear is fear and uh finally it went away. Um, but remember last time I tell you somebody tapped me on the shoulder. This time somebody whispered in my ear. I mean, of course, probably me, but um I thought it was quite interesting. Uh, it it really stepped up in in in uh in fourth. Uh, and I was seeing all kinds of different things uh when it occurred. And uh I just wanted to tell you that it was it was about three times stronger than the last time.

**Speaker 1:** There's the appreciation of the extent understand that you make and react yourself what you will do to apply the idea within what you're going to be your life.

**Speaker 4:** I haven't uh really looked at that. I was just mainly when I woke up in the morning I lord what happened? Uh I haven't really figured out how that except that I really looked and I felt uh like I was it was like the force just kind of um caused me to go into a different area and almost like you know how you talk about the black hole and you can see the stars going you know when they're riding through.

**Speaker 1:** Um allow yourself to continue the experience. Allow yourself to understand the experience in and of itself is the process. Understand that again you will not necessarily need to analyze the idea for you to understand the effect as it relates to your physical reality. Therefore, simply allow yourself to continue the experience and you will find yourself unfolding in that manner.

**Speaker 3:** Question. Is there anything in particular that my could do to better align ourselves with this upcoming energy?

**Speaker 1:** In order to understand you are already aligned as you need to be. Understand that simply it is a matter of allowance. There's nothing that you need to force with regard to the idea of channeling any idea any reality any situation any perspective of yourself. You follow me so far? Understand simply that the idea of allowance in and of itself is simply that every idea every situation every reality in your terms ves for reality ves for realization equally. The potential for any idea to exist exists equally with equal force as there is in a sense only one idea of creation in that way. Your idea of the energy behind also the realization manifestation of any idea within the reality. Understand that any idea you wish to perceive I'll say complete within itself always comes with all the ingredients necessary as you understand it for it unfoldment. Simply when you stand in your own way and you assume that there may be specific ideas, specific paths that need to be taken as opposed to simply allowing yourself to understand the unfoldment of any idea carried with it all the necessary ingredients for the unfoldment completely of that idea. Then simply allow yourself to remove the separation of yourself from that idea. Remove the separation between yourself. Understand simply that you are identify with the vibration allow yourself to feel the channel of the energy in that way through the idea of the excitement. So you understand that any idea which allows you to align within the idea of excitement also in a sense represent to yourself at that point then that you are in that way totally aligned with that idea. If you allow yourself to be excited understand if you are not excited about any ideas then understand that your alignment for that idea is not necessarily the manifestation that you desire. You follow me?

**Speaker 4:** What else? What do I need to do to let myself recommend specifically so that I can let go?

**Speaker 1:** I understand she's not correct. Very fine. The moments are very precise. There's a lot going on all the time. Allow it to be. So allow understand you have your own timing. You're never ahead of yourself. Understand you never give yourself more than you can experience. Understand that every idea, every reaction, every emotion is in and of itself, never negative. If you allow yourself to experience completely that emotion, you will always find yourself with the emotions leaving you fully aligned with your own complete understanding and sense of your own purpose in that unfoldment. Do you follow me?

**Speaker 3:** Question.

**Speaker 1:** Understand for yourself at this time the idea that what you experience as the idea of conviction, commitment will simply be that idea that you are willing to understand that every expression of yourself. Every situation that you can imagine for yourself in that way can be real. Understand that your dream reality, what you call your dream reality, your imagination reality, your physical reality are all versions of the same reality. simply perspectives of yourself from different viewpoints of existence from different levels of your consciousness as you understand your consciousness to exist with the separations in between. Understand that you now begin to integrate within yourself those ideas of removing the separation between your consciousness. Not so that you will in a sense not be able to function within the physical reality as you understand it. Simply that you will be able to create within that physical reality. I'll say the smoothness of the effect of the integration of all the consciousness. You follow me? Simply allow yourself to understand. Again, you do not have to perceive directly this idea. Simply allow yourself to know, to trust, to feel that your imagination, your dream reality carries with you the same amount of reality that you experience within your physical dimensionality and understand it has real effects within your physical reality and such can always for you smooth the path of any endeavor that you desire to undertake for yourself by simply allowing it to unfold both within I'll say your physical reality, your dream reality, your imagination reality. understanding as it unfolds within every single one of those levels, it is real and forms a part of the overall momentum of the unfoldment of that idea. Do you follow me? Therefore, understand that any commitment, the idea of conviction of your ideas is simply that knowing that living that being that idea. Have the conviction of your ideas to simply allow yourself to express them to be them. Understand that you do not have to care if anyone else cares in that sense. There will always be the compassion. Understand that you are not judged except as you judge yourself, as you limit yourself, as you understand your own idea that you wish to experience the idea of limitation that you wish to experience the idea of struggling and suffering to attain. Understand that the idea of experiencing the idea of struggling and suffering to attain is simply that you need to experience that idea once you have used that idea as a tool. It is now in a sense passing out of the understanding of yourself and your consciousness as you're forming your manifes at this time through the doorway I'll say in which you are now passing. You follow me?

**Speaker 3:** question. Our scientists are talking about Haley's comet as if something different is going to happen in our atmosphere because of Haley's comet coming back into the electromagnetic field. Is there something to that belief?

**Speaker 1:** I understand that to a degree there is the understanding from what you found to be the physics point of view that will cause slight alterations in what you turn to be the electromagnetic activity around about I'll say your planetary communications but understand that to a degree this will be an effect which they will observe within certain ideas and parameters and experiments that they will undertake. For the most part there will not be that physical effect as you understand it upon the population of your planet. But understand also that it will be that psychic effect. Understand that for a long period of time is your time to exist within your population mass consciousness. There is also in the understanding that the idea of the return of that idea of what you turn to be the comet is representative in your terms of a portent and will represent the idea of again that doorway another cycle a raising of the consciousness to I'll say the attraction to the idea of the extension of the self into space you follow me understand there are many many many ideas physical bodies within your solar system in a sense that are represented by that type of a cycle of different magnitudes each and every one understand that the greatest magnitude of that representational cycle of the idea of the periodic orbit of the comet which simply be that as expressed by what you come to be the dark star within your solar system. You follow me? Yes. That will be found then every 26 million of your years. that idea which will occur within your solar system and will cause always the difference of balancing and alignment with the energies within I'll say the balance state within the orbits of the planet within I'll say various manifestations of the ideas of physical bodies within the planet and there will be the idea of upheavalss in your terms as you understand it to exist understand that that will be the greatest representation of that particular idea of the cometary periodic orbit within your solar system represented by that great dark star so this is no accident this is All a part of the it's all part of the timing is all part of the balance of the idea that was expressed in the creation of this solar system and the expression of the light that you have created as yourself within it. Primarily understand that within the creation of this system in that way in the balance that you understand from the idea of that dark star there will be again the experience and the idea of also what you come to be those portent as you move into the idea of upheaval there will be the experience and the opportunity to experience the idea again once again of yourselves as the battle that we will get into say at a later time the understanding of the channeling of that energy both positive and negative at this time the integration of those energies together you follow me understand that your solar system at that time I'll say your reality at this in a very great way has chosen the creative I'll say expression of the idea of acting as that bow now in the completion of its cycle of understanding of itself which is the integration of that positive and what you think of the negative energy at this time so it will form a transition for itself when both of those ideas will be integrated and will allow you to I'll say begin another cycle in which both of those ideas will both channel positive results within your reality not negative results you follow me question

**Speaker 3:** could you talk a bit on the anatomy of loss and fear or what is considered to be destructive energy and how to handle that handle that

**Speaker 1:** we understand for the first idea that every emotion what you call emotion will always be in itself positively what is under fear will allow you in a sense within physical dimensionality to react to a situation in a way that will align you immediately with every idea that you know about yourself. It will center you completely allowing you to clear sight within any situation. You will be putting yourself through what you tell to be that creative pressure in a sense creating a situation in which you must act and teaching yourself that only by acting will you allow yourself to unfold the reality in that way. You follow me so far? Understand therefore that simply when you allow the idea of fear to be viewed through your artificial screen of judgment, guilt, analyzation, will you create for yourself that idea that is expressed as a negative effect that is the repetition of a cycle that is innocent? Will you be repeating as you say your vicious cycle of allowing yourself to create the idea of rage within you, the idea of the morals within you, the idea of that depression within you created from the fear. It does not stem from the fear. It stems from the viewpoint of the field to the artificial screen of judgment and guilt and analyzation. You follow me? Every idea expressed in the negative effect of an emotion is the viewing of that emotion through the artificial screen of again judgmentally. Yes. When you allow yourself simply to experience any emotion purely as that emotion exists for the idea of that emotion itself, you will always find yourself in some way, shape or form more aligned with all of that idea of all that you know yourself to believe with regard to any particular situation in which there is the arising of that emotion. Specifically then with regard to the action necessary for that physical situation to unfold and allow you to transform yourself from that idea into another idea and therefore transform your physical reality from that experience to another experience. You follow me? Yes.

**Speaker 3:** Question. I sometimes refuse to take the action that the fear indicates

**Speaker 1:** that simply you will be reacting and that will be the idea that is created as you have experienced the idea expressed to you as the reactive self in which simply you will be creating for yourself many cycles that you will feel that you cannot get out of you follow me that there will be I'll say the hiding from yourself within various portions of your consciousness then the idea of that your consciousness can form pock pockets within itself that keeps information hidden from you. There will be the increase of that separation within the consciousness that will allow the individual self to feel that there are portions of the consciousness which can in your films sneak upon you and create difficulty repeating the cycles of difficulty throughout your life continuously throughout many ideas of lies continuously simply understand that that reactive that cycle of the self the repetition in the negative effect is always created only when you do not allow yourself to act. Every time you allow yourself to respond to the emotion with the idea of an act, then you will always be understanding that the reaction and the reactive self in a sense does not in that way exist your momentum in that way will always turn what you deem to be the I'll say negative effecting that idea as understanding it is also again part and parcel of your overall sense of timing forward and such you will view any one negative experience as also the positive idea. which can be added to that overall forward momentum and allow yourself to incorporate that integrate that idea within yourself and understand that every idea within your reality. Is it part of your own forward momentum and in that way positive? You follow me? Yes.

**Speaker 3:** Question. How do you handle the conflict of various possibilities? Act this way, act that way, different acts.

**Speaker 1:** Understand again you will always be experiencing every portion of your reality as you understand on the various levels of your consciousness. Understand there will be no need to analyze again. Understand that is analyzation. Simply allow yourself to know that you will know exactly what you need to do in any particular situation that you create for yourself. Understand if you allow yourself the feeling to act in that way. React in a sense will be over before you can analyze it.

**Speaker 3:** Question.

**Speaker 4:** I have a feeling I'm changing my career real soon. I'm hoping with hoping it's going to be I'm going to be working with children and uh helping him. Um and my question was is does it I mean you know McDonald said about the reactive mind and such. I mean so I'm wondering does it matter whether or not people help children because they're going to make up their own anyway.

**Speaker 1:** Understand that to a degree every individual will have already created their own sense of identity and timing and purpose within that sense of the sense. But understand that again if you're simply acting within your feelings understand you will be simply doing the acting and simply be sharing. You will be spontaneously creating that situation with all those individuals who will be wishing to share that with you for the unfoldment of their own lives. Again you will not need to analyze your situation. You will simply do what feels right to you and you'll find yourself in that way then acting with those children if that be the act. Simply again you'll be unfolding according to yourself as a spontaneous event. You follow you'll be following your feelings. You'll be trusting your feelings. You'll be sharing what you are. In that way understand that you will never attract any individuals within that experience who have not already also chosen within their own sense of time to interact with you in that way. You follow me?

**Speaker 3:** Questions?

**Speaker 4:** I've been having uh quite a bit of difficulty this time around in finding something that will hold my attention and keep my excitement level up for

**Speaker 1:** I don't understand you are making a judgment in that sense. There is no need for you to assume that what you perceive to be your excitement level in one form of identity in one form of reality will be the same manifestation basically as in another form of reality. Understand that we have said before an idea of the identity, the idea, the expression, the reality will contain many ideas of timing within it. And at first when you find yourself in that way expressing to yourself the idea of a quiet moment, understand that is also part of the entire idea expressed to you by your initial excitement. It does not mean that living in the idea of ecstasy will mean that you will not be able to function in that way. You will not be able to fluctuate your emotional state in that way. does not mean that you will be able to in a sense allow yourself one continual unmoving unchanging viewpoint of yourself. You will always experience all the different facets of yourself and understand that way that simply that is all taking place because of the expression of that ecstasy within yourself because of the expression of that excitement within your idea that you are I'll say desiring to express and unfold at this time within your reality. Again, you're not going to judge us upon the idea of the fluctuation within your emotional state. You will always change. Change is the only constant that there is. Understand simply that every change that you experience within your reality will all be a part and parcel of the unfoldment of the idea that you know yourself to be completely equal to you. Therefore, that is the idea of the excitement simply that you do not necessarily feel that translation the excitement all the time simply that you understand yourself to be equal to that vibration all the time. Take it for grant and trust yourself that you always be acting in accord with that idea as it is unfolding. You follow

**Speaker 4:** me what you would ideally like to experience. But my plan uh was to like go to my imaginary and dream universe and have that starting at my physical uh universe and especially like when I'm sleeping. Um that's what I I plan to do next.

**Speaker 1:** Understand if you allow yourself to unfold in the form of plans in that way understand that that is what you will see specifically. You will get the results for which you designed the experiment you following. Understand that there will be that manifestation of the idea of the unfoldment which will also in a sense be outside of what you are very consciously are aware of as your own plan. You have your own sense of timing already in that way and understand that you will unfold in that way. Simply understanding that whatever plan you create in your terms of a conscious plan will be a tool a tool for you to understand the unfoldment in one specific way. But understand that your plan will change from time to time in that way as you allow yourself to understand the different facets of the entire idea of the timing as you have created it within your non-physical life before this previous life. Do you follow me?

**Speaker 4:** Well, to certain extent maybe uh what I should do is plan and have no plan. In other words, just be like spontaneous.

**Speaker 1:** But uh understand that the creation of the idea of a plan in that way can be spontaneous. But simply allow yourself to understand again that every experience within your reality. Every idea that you allow yourself to attract to yourself is already still a part of one whole idea that you are experiencing. As such, the plans that take place within that alternate plan that you have created within the sense of the timing, the idea of your physical reality as you know it exists will be again part of the allowance of yourself to view different portions of yourself as it outside allows itself to identify with the idea of the overall sense of timing. Each and every plan consciously that you understand that you unfold for yourself will be in a sense a different viewpoint of the overall plan expressed with internology that you're conscious aware ego state can also be used to assimilate it in that way until you create all the different plans which are all the different facets all the different viewpoints all the different experiences of yourself within all your physical lives and understand that the collection of all those different identity plans all those different of say personal identity too will simply sort of the aggregate in that way consciousness of the mass consciousness of all that you are and simply will always be in a sense in their own Again, part of the spontaneous choreography that you have created for yourself was the idea that you wish to express within this overall lifetime as you know it to exist. You follow me? But I think a panorama allow yourself to exist within the idea of the panorama.

**Speaker 4:** Yeah, see what I got from that is you should do you know do whatever feels right and uh trust that you know and uh if if if what comes up is a little plan then just flow with it and and feel that your excitement uh level is flowing along that and even though it see that comes along question.

**Speaker 3:** Um I the reason I brought up that thing about the um the job is because um I been doing the same thing for five years now and I tell you basically what it is is a fear from my reactive mind that because of this Miss Martin school problems that are going on and I have kind of a fear in me that um I won't be spontaneously with children trying to hug them and hold them because I'm afraid I'll be implicated as far as um child um once

**Speaker 1:** Again the idea that creating the fear within your reality is the same as creating belief expression that belief crazy reality never sense. Understand again that is why we have also the idea of expressing the idea that removing the term hope also from your statement in that sense you have express the idea really of despair. Understand that is again a reflection of the idea that you're creating that fears yourself which creates the dream which creates your reality. Simply allow yourself again if you operate from the sense of the feeling itself the sense of the feeling that you wish to experience within the interchange of your consciousness and their consciousness. simply if you allow yourself to operate from the feeling itself. Allow yourself to be that idea to act as that idea to become totally with that idea. Understand that then you will attract the exact situation that you need to in terms of all the identities which will form a part of that idea which will allow you to experience the idea unfolding within yourself in a more positive way. Understand you will not then attract those individuals within your reality who I'll say reinforce the idea of the fear reinforce the idea of the belief the negative side of the belief which will allow you to experience the negative effect in that way. Simply allow yourself to feel the feeling. Exist within the feeling. Act out the feeling within yourself. Become the feeling. Identify with the feeling. Become the vibration of that feeling that you wish that is excited for you. That is your desire to understand. You will only attract those individuals in that situation which will understand and represent the unfoldment of that particular situation and reality. No other.

**Speaker 4:** It's my belief and my doubt rather than the belief in the reality.

**Speaker 1:** Question. You have experience dealing with what we term evil or harmful. Understand there is that idea expressed by many consciousnesses within all that is. Understand simply again there is the idea expressed by us at this time as the acting of what is going to be a vow for the integration within our concept of our past selves which we view to a degree as paralleling in you. your idea of acting as that valve for the integration of that negative effect within I'll say the channeling of that energy in that way what you be the light side the dark side but understand also that basically the idea expressed by us at this time will be that our vibration of our own understanding of our reality as we have been discussing with this individual previously is that the reality that we form for ourselves will not allow in a sense that vibration to be equal to our own and in that way those individuals who wish to express their consciousness in that way will never find us

**Speaker 3:** question that is not attracting.

**Speaker 1:** Yes, it will not be a part of the universe of which we allow ourselves to experience in that way. We may be in your terms because we can in a sense ignore the idea of time and allow ourselves to view the idea of the expansion of the consciousness within all that is simply I'll say in your terms objectively aware that situations of that nature exist but does not mean that we have created that vibration for ourselves in that way. We have not reinforced the idea in that way and as such will not be equal to vibration their vibration the vibration of that negative effect in that way and therefore that vibration of the negative effect and the reality that that vibration creates will not match our reality will not meet our universe will not be perceived in that way will not have that effect will in a sense in that way in your terms pass right through each other without ever perceiving each other in that way

**Speaker 3:** question I uh wasn't asked on fear the uh what sometimes I would think a native thought like oh gee it can't be done or I can't do it or this then the way I'm learning how to handle this is to make that vibration I'm going to put out there take it back and all of a sudden it just disappears and I feel happy about

**Speaker 1:** understand you are creating the effect before the cause and understand that again this is the idea you express as nature that is the idea you express yourself as an automatic creator If you allow yourself to create the effect, make sure to provide you with more than enough reason to support that effect. You will provide the cause after the effect in that way. Understand that the cause and the effect being the same idea. There's no separation between the two. You follow me? Yes. Then you will find yourself unfolding that idea very rapidly within terms of time as you know time to exist within your physical reality as you have I'll say in that way allowed yourself to align with also the idea of the law that you choose to represent within the idea of the manifestation of the sharing of this mass consciousness and allow to unfold in that way in the quickest possible manner that you can obtain it.

**Speaker 3:** question. I have a question. It may sound a little off the wall, but I felt like right here today and I was wondering where in my head and I was wondering what, you know, I was surprised. I just I went, "Why do I have a gray hair?" And I it I just went, "What? What happened to the cell? going to die. Is that why specifically?"

**Speaker 1:** I understand also now you might be first of all that idea specifically I will say this within the idea of any idea as a tool realize that the reaction within yourself that is surprise allows you to understand that every single in your terms idea no matter how many unfold within you an entirely different idea of yourself an entirely different reality an entirely different universe an entirely different viewpoint of yourself which allow yourself to withdraw within yourself and recreate yourself in a different way and emerge in a sense from that withdrawal from what you call to be that depression as a completely new version of yourself with the understanding integrated within yourself of the reaction created by that tool. Simply also physiologically understand there is a representation within your of an overall society. As you know that society exists within its symbology which is going to be its mythology, its understanding of itself, its archetypal self to represent the idea again more in the idea of alignment with the idea of aging as that of the idea of that transformation which allows you to begin to experience more of a wholeness of yourself but with the need of faith to use less physicality in order to do it. Take your break.

---

**[Break]**

**Speaker 1:** Right now first of all a few ideas expressed but again the merging of the energy that in terms of the association I understand first of all that there will be this idea with regards to the following at this time and to say of what will make a are clear reflection of your mass consciousness. Therefore, understand that at this time this will be represented in your time of the idea that we have stressed to do reflecting within your own math consciousness that what you practice time is very nearly over. Understand simply that at this time there will be that identification that move towards what it is that your teacher says represented by the energy of the association in that light so that again it may reflect you a clear and absurd version of that energy of collective consciousness. You are now forming and as such understand this in terms of expression at this time of what you call emotionality with regard to that energy of the association. Now you will get in your terms out of it exactly what you are willing to put in. Therefore, understand it is an opportunity in that sense to reflect back to yourself the degree of emotionality you are willing to put towards your understanding of your own unfoldment. Your willingness to simply allow yourself to experience at this time of your timing all that you truly desire your reality to be. You follow me? Also there will be this idea expressed towards another version or I'll say view the point of one of the purposes of the gathering of that consciousness into a collective form at this time. The purpose as you understand it of the identification of yourself as one consciousness, not losing your individuality. No, but the idea of yourself as one consciousness for that one consciousness may relate in that way to other single identity consciousnesses represented by all of the single consciousness methods. I'll say within that association all the little civilizations in that way which forms that energy which would fail to be reflected in the association. Now understand that the purpose of this idea in that way also is so that when you flow this idea of your own collective consciousness and as such allow yourself to begin to understand how in your choice to I say truly travel within space and begin to make your physical contact with those various civilizations within the associations. You will therefore through this opportunity in a sense to allow yourself to reflect off that more pure reflection of consciousness your own self informing your own collective association upon your planet then when you reach that point of understanding when you reach I'll say that reality of I'll say contact within space travel you already understand yourself to be a part of that association There will be nothing necessary for you to join. You follow me? You are already within the association in that way. Understand that this then to a degree is that method of communication. You arrived to buy the idea of the association to open the idea of contact in that way. So that when you achieve that idea that understanding of yourself, you will begin to view yourself as a part of that association. have another identity consciousness, a mass consciousness within the greater identity consciousness to use that term in your own terminology greater of the association and you and that collection to exist in also understand that there will be within I'll say this reflection that might also I'll say a variation which will represent a degree the idea of both the blending and the interaction of various levels of the idea of the identity of the future self at this time and therefore understand that this right here and right now what you are experiencing for yourself in this way this communication will be in your terms the second part of the channeling that will bring another break questions.

---

**Speaker 3:** questions. I have a question about you had made a statement in last week or the week before about I don't know if it was some of us in the room or there's some of us here on earth would be living to be 300 years old. Okay, you said we would see that in our lifetime. And are does that mean that let's say somebody who's 20 years old might live to be 300 or are you talking about the newborn coming in would maybe live to be 300

**Speaker 1:** understanding individuals what they will see the fullness of their lives at this time but will in a sense take part in the understanding of the self of the physical self through much of that I'll say technology you are now unfolding for yourself who will experience physically that idea along with what is going to be many of your newborn

**Speaker 3:** okay so somebody 40 50 60 50 years old might experience 300 years also is that what you're saying

**Speaker 1:** yes

**Speaker 3:** okay then uh the new technology would be then would take place for I mean look at how we look at 65 these days we sort of look old. what you're saying that technology uh and living longer I mean we look old at 65 what are we going to look like at

**Speaker 1:** understand that your technology in that sense will I say stretch out that process

**Speaker 3:** right that's what I thought we would it all go be relative yes question

**Speaker 4:** yes um the new technology ology in the bio technology. Can you give some understanding into that and see what effect today?

**Speaker 1:** Time to end it very will be exploring many facets. One of which primarily will be as it was to a degree before within your past experience as the idea of what you call genetics. Also understand that we will begin first of all to open up your view that much of what takes place. I'll say in that way within every reality that you form will be in that way through direct action within what is going to be the physical brain. You follow me? There will be an increase in awareness specifically of the various roots of interaction within the impulses in your physical brain. These will begin to be understood in such a way that they may be all safe arranged in a different manner to follow a more thorough interaction that will allow there to be a more thorough conscious controlling of all the physical manifestations within the physical body. Do you follow me?

**Speaker 3:** Question. I have a question about transportation and um not that I don't like driving at 5:00 in the afternoon um down the freeway um with my question is um I think driving and transportation is a real waste of time and I I wonder what's in store for us in the future because I'm sitting there at home and I'm wondering why can't I just think about where I would be and just be there rather than having to get in my car and drive

**Speaker 1:** Realize again to a degree this is a possibility within your reality but understand what I think that you're also sharing I'll say which is the unfoldment of your understanding of yourself and what you build your own sense of progress you may allow yourself a variation a combination upon that However, in this manner, are you ready? Mhm. Allow yourself to understand as you begin to undertake what you thought to be your journey, your traveling that you may show within your imagination. The idea of yourself already at your destination, allowing yourself in a sense not to create reality within the traveling itself, but only the reality of having arrived. You will try that then you will be working in accord with the idea of your own momentum and effort. For the most part, you may develop the idea of the technique of simply allowing yourself for the most part to the oblivious of the trip altogether and simply allow yourself to experience more fully having arrived. Also understanding that you will attract in that way all the situations which will unfold for you more ease of traveling also physically as you integrate within the consciousness of all the individuals involved within that traveling at any particular specific moment in time. You may again interact in much the same way. observe animals to interact within groups, all knowing exactly how each other is going to move and moving flawlessly in a spontaneously choreographed session. You follow me? Allow your traveling to be a dance. Allow yourself the enjoyment of the movement within the dance and you will find that you will very very quickly be able truly to be at your destination.

**Speaker 3:** Yeah. Yeah. You know why I asked that? Just recently in the past few weeks I've been driving to driving to

**Speaker 1:** my you have asked the idea to reinforce once more within yourself that you have all the reason in the universe to believe in every facet of your imagination. without any attempt to form the idea of struggle to achieve it. But understand that to a degree therefore really although it will be opinion to express it anytime and we will be all right. You really do not need anymore that of wondering whether or not. Thank you. Allow yourself simply to understand again that your imagination reality is real. And if you can in a sense create a vision within yourself, a self image, a new selfimage of a situation, be also ecstatic, enjoyed, and movement, a dance, a flow, a beingness. Then you will be allowing yourself fullness of every expression, of every experience, of every situation within your reality. And as such, each and every once again one of those experiences will unfold in a positive manner. Even if in your terms you are stuck, you will find yourself interacting with the consciousness around about you in a very creative way, allowing yourself the time and opportunity to in a sense slow yourself down and enjoy the view. You follow me? Understand that to be in a rush at times to get from one place to another is another way of avoiding all that you can experience about yourself along the way. Enjoy your ride as well for what it is. Allow to unfold in whatever way your imagination tells you is a creative framing. Understand that you can form in that way different forms of relationships even with individuals as you are moving along within your traffic. You follow me?

**Speaker 4:** This is a difficult experience. I want to share with you about I want to share and ask you what experience. Thank you. Um not difficult. You created it quite easily.

**Speaker 1:** Yeah, I created the difficulty. But it was easy to create that difficulty and just as easy to create any other version of that reality that you wish. Go ahead.

**Speaker 4:** Okay. I was uh going along in pretty much in a state of ecstasy and then I encountered a particular group that had a a particular rigid path that I had some agreement with. I was I found that path to be quite balanced and then later I found myself in conflict with some of the approaches that you have put out and that other path that haven't really been able to resolve that conflict since that time to my satisfaction.

**Speaker 1:** Allow yourself to remember the two magic words we discussed. Understand again that if you're attempting to integrate various portions of your consciousness that you have created to be in conflict with each other then there will be those occasions in a sense where you will always allow yourself to come up against in a way again the idea of the creation of that conflict. Understand that if you are within the idea of the integration then each and every one of those experiences each and every one of those interactions will all be for the unfoldment of that integrated idea. Therefore, allow yourself simply to go along again for the ride and allow yourself to experience to the fullness of the creation that you have made. That what seems to be an interruption is really simply another portion of all that integrated state. making itself aware in your consciousness, making itself manifest in your real world so that you may have the opportunity to integrate it within all. That is realize if it remains hidden, you will not have the opportunity to integrate it within your idea. Do you follow me?

**Speaker 4:** I do. I think I'm impatient with enjoy the ride itself.

**Speaker 1:** Understand that by being impatient you are closing many many doors that you may be allowing yourself experience along that journey that would add a fullness of experience to it and as such you feel that lack of fullness in being impatient and therefore there is no also lubrication effect when you bring these ideas together because you have not allowed yourself to individuals you may have discovered about yourself along the way. You follow me?

**Speaker 4:** I do. That's good. Thank you.

**Speaker 3:** Question.

**Speaker 1:** Yes. Understand that also. Again, it will be one more opportunity for you to become little bit closer to the idea of your own future self. What do you think? Now understand one other thing that we have expressed to you on that time of your timing you call March 15. Do you remember the idea we had discussed of allowing yourself to project within that craft that you may allow yourself to do so again on that bay. You follow me? And therefore whenever and therefore understand that while you are within the projection of the idea of being in that crap, you will begin through your imagination reality to commence a dialogue, a discussion. And within that discussion, you may sound all the vibrations that you know yourself to be. All the vibrations of your sisters beginning to merge a little bit and emerging from that doorway with a little bit closer feeling for yourself as that future self as well. What do you think? But understand that after you emerge from that doorway then it is always your choice. But there will really be no more reason for you to not continue feeling wonderful all right.

**Speaker 3:** find you and number five you question I've been experiencing saying so what to anything that happens in my life and I found that when I do that I

**Speaker 1:** I understand that as long as you allow yourself to be at the center does not mean you will lose compassion. That is not what is meant by the what simply that you will have compassion without judgment. Thank you.

**Speaker 3:** Question on the break. We had a little discussion in the picture where one individual couple individuals were not sure it was you at the first half because there wasn't too much attractive personality.

**Speaker 1:** Okay, realize I have discussed the idea represented within the clearness of the energy of my association with the association as you have experienced it in the allowing of the individuals as you know within this gathering at this time to be able to put their own emotionality out. make that conviction to their own emotional reality and as such allow themselves to reflect that degree of willingness or lack of it. That if you rely upon my own personality to provide you with a feeling of being in touch with yourself, that when you are presented with the clearer reflection of the association, you will find it to be cold and empty. For you will not have put your own self into the idea. You follow me?

**Speaker 3:** Yes. I guess I don't understand the clear association.

**Speaker 1:** In other words, that idea represented by those portions of consciousness within our society that link to all the other portions of consciousness within all the societies and civilizations with which we are in touch. That is what we do with association. simply as represented to you by that individual expressing that energy in order to form that link with all those other civilizations and your civilization as well. There will simply be that opportunity presented to you by that individual at this time for you to put your own civilization consciousness within the association. And as such form the identification of allowing yourself to feel the own warmth of your own creations and not rely upon us to provide that for you which you have been doing to a degree.

**Speaker 3:** Ah so does that mean that we've been attaching to the personality of the char?

**Speaker 1:** Yes.

**Speaker 3:** And and now with the association with no personality and very neutral we're we're being we're being forced really to put our own personality.

**Speaker 1:** And so you will become a part of the association in that way. You are now at a level of understanding within your mass consciousness where you can understand that the strength within you will allow you to have the convictions of the experiencing and the creation of your own reality. And as such, you may simply allow those realities now to more fully be realized and reflected back to you when you come upon a very clear mirror. Is that like being rude?

**Speaker 3:** Yes.

**Speaker 1:** Only understand that your understanding only one portion of your understanding of your overall collective consciousness will contain all the ideas that you have referred to in terms of Christ consciousness, Buddha consciousness, all the other forms of collective consciousness will now in a sense reemerge within you. understand that you will begin to understand the idea within the I say action of being that consciousness not following but being

**Speaker 3:** being question is that sort of the difference between what I think of as mediumship or mediumology which is a self-empowering energy and our religion which seems to take the power and wants to be followed for it. Yeah. Is that the difference between what you are giving us and what religion on the whole is giving us any sense?

**Speaker 1:** I understand that within the idea of religion there is still in that way the removal of responsibility from the self as in within the idea of your government. Is there another is there another idea besides religion and mediumship that I'm missing somewhere?

**Speaker 3:** This is only the idea of being completely aware of your own self power. Individuation.

**Speaker 1:** Understand again that as you become a stronger individual only then can the overall mass consciousness have something to integrate within it. That is why as you become more and more one concept net you do not lose your individual identity but become stronger within it. But only by being strong within the integration of all your own personality portions within your own identity can you allow the overall mass consciousness to partake of that identity which is yourself and integrate you within itself. And as we integrate that we will we will drop away the mediumship and we will drop away the religion. just said you will all become channels of your own consciousness and allow yourself in a way to communicate freely with all other consciousness within the association

**Speaker 3:** question I have a question it's not I I was I was walking around today at the beach and I was coming up and I wanted to kept running away I didn't want to eat them or anything. I was wondering why do they keep flying away.

**Speaker 1:** With all that you understand about the mass consciousness and the collective consciousness and what is transforming, allow yourself to understand simply the timing involved. And as such, you may continue with that endeavor. But understand that it will unfold according to your own understanding of the allowance of unfoldment within your own reality and the unfoldment of the reality within the collected part of which you are a part. You will see a change first reality will reflect your gladness.

**Speaker 4:** Well, I'm happy. Thank you.

**Speaker 1:** It is in a sense I'll say the best thing you could have done to put a period right at the end of that statement.

**Speaker 3:** Question. Question. What?

**Speaker 4:** I don't really know why I created

**Speaker 1:** Who are you asking?

**Speaker 3:** Yes, she is.

**Speaker 1:** Understand? That is why you do not get a clear feeling at the time of the experience. Allow yourself to believe that you can ask yourself and get a clear answer. Go ahead.

**Speaker 4:** What are your feelings about that experience? How does it make you feel?

**Speaker 1:** Again, understanding that there may not be within your sense of timing a need to specifically analyze the situation in order to create the effect. What will your imagination that experience? Bring that experience right here and right now. How do you feel?

**Speaker 4:** That's okay.

**Speaker 1:** It is right here and right now. That experience is feel the feelings right now. And understand that when you feel the feelings right now, that experience is right now. There is only right now. How do you good?

**Speaker 4:** Very good.

**Speaker 1:** Understand that that energy sometimes translated through the also little bit of artificial screen of the excitement of that creative pressure may translate out as nervousness. It is the same energy. Allow yourself to be nervous. Very good. Allow it to clean itself up. Now, what do you feel?

**Speaker 4:** I feel very strong and very curious.

**Speaker 1:** Right. Very good. Realize there is no such thing as idle curiosity. Any curiosity that you allow yourself will be that willingness to explore another facet of yourself and absorb it within your overall consciousness in a conscious manner. Continue. What else? You're doing very well. Where are you right now? How do you feel right now? Go.

**Speaker 4:** I'm facing her and I I am her and yet I'm not. It's a potential. It's a possibility.

**Speaker 1:** Very good. Right now, before All right, keep going. Are you speaking to her? Do you speaking to her? All right, very good. Are you sure about that invitation? Do you think you will have a good time if you go where she is inviting you? Well, by all means. All right. Very good. Very good. That you may merge with the idea of yourself. Understand that if you can perceive within your imagination a version of yourself that is the way you wish your reality to be. Realize you do not have to compare that self with the reality you now feel and experience. As long as you do so, you will always be telling that other reality that it will stay in the future. And that is exactly what it means. If you allow yourself to understand that if you can perceive that image of yourself, then that you exist right now. And that such there is, I'll say, no reason why that cannot be you right now. If you begin to identify with the energy that you feel from that you, then you can simply allow yourself to be that you right now and take the future out of it. Understand that you cannot imagine nonexistence particular way. Anything that you perceive about yourself, any version of yourself you can imagine is already therefore a portion of you simply waiting to be allowed to exist. All you have to do is say all right. That is who I am. There is nothing wrong with that. as a matter of fact feels like it will be a little more fun than I have been having. So why not that new repeating the vision or the affirmation once is necessary. If you really believe that that is you, you repeat the opposite. Understand again. It will not matter what you perceive as an interruption if you already understand within the belief of your whole unfoldment of self. That true core self, the true to be physical in the first place, you would not create a self-destructive life. Therefore understand anything you perceive to be an interruption is not part of your Yes. So what you can achieve what you can perceive you can achieve. Yes. Understand that what you can perceive you already are not can achieve. That is really you right now. There is no other time but right now. Therefore, understand if you are perceiving it, it is because that is you at the moment of the perception. Right now, that is what you are. That is how you think of yourself. That is yourself in it. Therefore, that is what you are right now. One moment. We will continue our intest with the understanding from the idea of association that you now will begin to believe yourselves. Now you will have the conviction. We are not ordering you to But you will have the conviction of your own beliefs, the commitment to yourself to live those beliefs. And as such you will grow. But the next experience of what you feel to be the association energy will allow you to be a little bit more in tune with the overall purpose of the integration, the overall purpose of the reality expressed within that energy. And as such, you will find it to be a little bit warmer. And you yourself will now understand yourself to be unfolding within the world that is your own self love. Understand that the only way that what you turn to be that association energy could exist is in that framework of complete love and allowance of all the consciousness involved within that idea and really even within your conscious awareness I'll say even your analytical self how can that possibly be to your eyes emotionally thankful What you follow me?

**Speaker 3:** Question. I have a few weeks ago you asked me. It was because we believe that we separated from God and not viewing ourselves as God. um through creating the creatures we view them as also separate from God and not and now that we're doing the cloning and the genetic engineering it seems as though it's happening faster and faster but I was reading an article a couple days ago and it was talking it was turning them as robots which I felt was a way of dehumanizing them and uh Now I feel this time around because of the emotion I felt of compassion last time.

**Speaker 1:** Thank you very much for allowing yourself to become that bright light, for allowing yourself to feel free, the compassion of all that you are. We will say thank you very much for sharing that portion of all that you are with us at this time.

**Speaker 3:** Question Um, there were creatures with the humanity. Yeah.

**Speaker 1:** understand that what you turn to bury your United States is a direct historical parallel and extension of that civilization of Atlantis. Understand that the cycle begun at that time I'll say with the transformation being viewed in a negative effect is now being replayed. for the transformation at this time will create the polar opposite the positive effect and effect will allow you to break into another cycle all together of your pain that will be the transformation of your time this time your feelings within the next I'll say 20 to 30 years

**Speaker 3:** what are you going to do what are you going to do with the genetic engineering in 20 to 30

**Speaker 1:** Understand that what you are experiencing now in your terms of genetic engineering is a replay of an idea very similar within the idea of Atlantis. simply understand that at that time as was said there was a due point I said of the creation being separate from all that is and in this way you are recreating that scenario at this time so that you may understand yourself more connected to all that is by viewing that creation as one of the ideas expressed within your creator and as such there will be this time around you A compassion expressed. You see all the creations which stem and therefore the creations which stem from that discipline will be in that way positive in nature. Understand also there is a parallel development this time within the idea of what you call to be the computer artificial intelligence. As you understand that idea, simply will be that when you create the idea of a computer, as you say that things, you will be holding dialogues with your own higher consciousness through that acceptable tool. Follow me. And again, it will allow you the opportunity to simply understand yourself as all that is. You will be speaking to yourself.

**Speaker 3:** Question. I have met several of the genetic engineers and they seem to be an incredibly compassionate group of people. Can you explain further on that? It's like a certain group of people are being led into this area.

**Speaker 1:** I understand again it would simply be the unfoldment of the timing at this time of those individuals who were in Atlantis and the allowance of the experience this time in a positive way. They have their own timing. The consciousness will always gather all the individuals necessary for the completion of the unfoldment of that form of reality. at this time question. Thank you.

**Speaker 4:** But everything seems to much much becoming more people even more down there. more people. I can feel the electricity coming through of the high quality of father, the high quality of love feel and

**Speaker 1:** know that that perception alone will be responsible for the transformation of your entire planet. That is exactly how powerful each and every one of you are. You follow me?

**Speaker 3:** What?

**Speaker 1:** Understand what is meant by the idea of conviction within your own beliefs. Understand what is expressed by the idea of boldness. That conviction will be expressed in the various forms that you have chosen to express your communication upon your planet. One of them being verbal. In that way, the sharing of those ideas, the expressing of those ideas will be what allows those ideas to manifest more rapidly within your reality. Do you follow me? As you allow yourself to, I'll say share that idea within all the consciousness around and the value, you will be giving your own validity to that idea and as such you will be telling yourself that you believe that idea is really what you are. And as such you will get the reinforcement from your reality and consciousnesses round and about you to reinforce that viewpoint of yourself. And so it will be who you are. It is always your choice.

**Speaker 4:** That was good.

**Speaker 1:** You It is always your free will. Understand that when there is the energy of expression as is coming to you now in this way. Simply you may understand that that is the manifestation of the reflection of your mass consciousness at this time with regards to how willing you are to believe in yourself. We are not telling you anything you do not already know about yourself and therefore we are forcing nothing upon you.

**Speaker 4:** I know. Yeah. It's just like you said that uh for this week it would be good just to live and and not go. What are you doing right now?

**Speaker 1:** Dying.

**Speaker 4:** Yes, you are in that sense also. I know. I I actually what I was going to tell you before is that in the last week or so I think I've been uh uh doing the cycles you know the the existing along your head on the sidewalk but I Not real funny, but um stop really. I know. So in a sense, that's sort of what I got from you that if somebody felt excited about telling somebody about something, then they should actually do what they felt like not necessarily listening to you all the time and keeping their trapped up.

**Speaker 1:** But understand that the expression of that idea also with that excitement will be a case the channel of that idea into reality.

**Speaker 4:** I think the other concept was that uh in terms of like uh teaching or spreading the word the concept of preaching maybe uh it's a little bit of a force maybe as opposed to just living it and displaying it.

**Speaker 1:** Understand also there is no spreading of the world. Every individual is their own path and their own word. Otherwise, if there were only one way, there would only be one person. But understand that within the expression of the conviction of that energy, still there will be that expression according to each and every timing sense that each individual possesses and creates for themselves. Therefore, there will be that expression and channeling of many words which will all follow a dialogue within the mass consciousness as it speaks to itself between its own subconscious conscious and higher conscious levels. Do you follow me?

**Speaker 4:** Yes. This release here in I perceive you. I perceive what you are willing to do. Therefore, that is why we say again, we are telling you nothing about yourselves. You not already perceive otherwise you will not be here.

**Speaker 4:** I feel very lucky. I don't know. In my past, I felt very unlucky to be alive.

**Speaker 1:** But you created that unluckiness as well.

**Speaker 4:** But I was a child and I didn't know I had the power to create.

**Speaker 1:** Yes, you did.

**Speaker 4:** I knew I had the power.

**Speaker 1:** Understand that when you are in a sense a child, you have already created for yourself the chosen situation which you wish to experience for the unfoldment of the idea of yourself as you will exist physically. Therefore understands that it does not matter whether you were conscious in that way. You do again always at every point of your existence. Now if you are going to create the idea of yourself as being empowered right here and right now then understand that since you create your past and your future from right here and right now you are going to empower your past and your future as well. You follow me now. You are always empowered. You are empowered now and you always will be deteriorated. The same thing by the way that goes after the sentence I am happy.

**Speaker 4:** I was really happy. I mean I'm I'm like excuses. No, I'm not. It's not that I'm not happy right now. I'm very content right now. It was ice cream. I was happy. Now I'm content. What do we do? I don't know. But I can make so happy as do I'm joking now. It's my first time in 12 years. Is that something that's happening to an awful lot of people or it seems it is an awful lot of people I know are suddenly eating sugar who never ever did before.

**Speaker 1:** Understand that to a degree there will be a momentary expression of the idea of the faster rate of that vibration in symbolic form following there's an anxiety that we are to a degree understand again that is why it is all right to experience the anxiety the nervousness and understand it is simply the energy that you are channeling of that higher vibration of your higher consciousness And as such there is no need to worry about it.

**Speaker 4:** Is there something to the food that would be better for our body?

**Speaker 1:** Again water.

**Speaker 4:** I do that. What about lemon juice?

**Speaker 1:** To some degree understand that that can have I'll say in excess the same negative effect upon various portions of your body. Yes.

**Speaker 4:** I had danger. Anyway, I would like to welcome you for coming. All right. the wall the idea again don't forget but outside this week as represented by the fin and you understand it that great invent the idea of something for yourself I'll say a sense of I'll say well this is what time represented by say March 15 will be an idea expressed by alterity of your math As long as you understand the grouping of all your individual personalities with regard to the idea that we're expressing for our planet at this time, understand that that will be well represented within our macro cycle that you have created for yourself so that you might ascre your understanding and increase your momentum of the reality you have chosen to experience within the idea of your future self. You follow me so far? Understand that you have none of these same cycles within exaggerated within the overall idea and identity of your as you say dayto-day existence. Understand that they occur in those times which your society has chosen are they sleep through. Understand that the timing will be within your other cycle of energy represented by that 3 to 3:15 a.m. in their burning where outside your own personal transitional doorway that connection between the two hemispheres of your right and left brain will connect and go that I say limbo state in which you can say within mold of your own identity more of the forms of consciousness with which you are in I'll say compact those forms of consciousness that you are projected out from yourself and understand to be extensions of yourself and reflecting back to yourself to understand more and more of the early awareness of yourself. So you may again add your opener momentum of the idea of what you have chosen to be within the idea of your future self upon your planet. Now understand that as you have individual cycles in this way represented in your day-to-day existence, you will also have mass consciousness cycles also represented by a sense a wave front and outside a vent horizon which will still radiating from yourself as you project your reality lying on the bounds of your sense and the echo of that reality also forming back a reflection to yourself and that echo crosses the outward bound of reality that you are sending in a sense. Then those cresting waves as they overlap form those doorways those moments those pockets instead of that neutral state of reality that lio state that unlocking from one idea or reality into I would say the ability to perceive all realities at that time and allow yourself in a sense to reform the idea in yourself of love you are what you have chosen what you want so what you desire in a sense that level of excitement that idea that energy be translated to your physical form as excitement will be then the channeling of that energy that I'll say you will begin to realign your idea of yourself and when you will emerge from that doorway of that overlapping I'll say wave front that invention then you will instead have unsurpassed yourself from your idea reality and refocus yourself into another idea reality outside in reality changing your entire universe and you will begin to perceive again within the mass conscious idea of those individuals round and bound you also to a degree having changed but realized they have not in change that each individual contains all possibilities of all the ideas that they can do that you have changed outside your perception of yourself you're losing your own self to another facet of yourself and as such then also the facet of the vibration of every other individual which relates to that new perception of yourself will simply be that facet of individual that you are perceiving at that time you only right we will say for now question

**Speaker 3:** when was the last that we strongly believe regularly that they will always be similar in that way. Understand also there are many overlapping of different ages which occur at various times throughout your orbit around your star but understand they will fluctuate from time to time within the regularity of that cycle. Understand that even within you an understanding of the idea of what is going to be the two that you call astrology. Understand that you have designated this time period even in your own recognition consciously as the time period in which you are most likely to alter your psychic activities. You follow me?

**Speaker 3:** Question. Does that mean that someone will be involved in the cycle more specifically?

**Speaker 1:** Understand they will have see themselves with that alignment for very specific purposes allowing themselves to consciously understand through all the tools that are available to them at this time that they have a high degree of availability of expression that psychicness to them and as such they will manifest outside their cycle very creatively in that way. question people understand that for the most part also there is I'll say that concordance that has been with those individuals who informed I'll say those individuals patterns and the situations that will inform to the overall idea of the mass processes as it works out his understanding of the early cycle of this time represented by that beginning cycle and what is under the Atlantic 12,500 years of yourself as though understand that you are completing that idea now and as such each formulation each as you say manifestation in physical reality will also have I'll say positive positive in your terms to do with the overall momentum increasing to this point where it will be the transformation that you're talking with the next 20 to 30 of your year if you follow me individual is following the parent as people should perceive themselves to be I'll say understanding the involvement of their parents toward their own I'll say cause of children within the specific physical light of their choice but understand that particularity of the cycle. So there will be many many many chances in a sense many experiences for that physical life to be repeated in different and various viewpoints of the self. You follow me. There are many many overlapping lives also in that time period of your understanding at the present time of our self and understand that many times when you perceive an individual point they will overlap themselves in many dimensions following question. question. First of all, allow yourself first of all to the idea completely. Let them victims. You follow me? Okay. First of all, you follow me? Then understand first of all that often most of what is represented by individuals as that idea of you call habit that they cannot innocent change will simply be because they allow themselves the idea of the opportunity of the judgment to experience that judgment from what they want to do outside themselves which is a projection back on themselves for the idea that they are innocent and not worthy in that way to allow the reality to change as such from the idea they have already gotten from that experience understand that each individual may I'll say relate to certain experiences within their lives that you may come in some way or form to as you say negative but understand simply that they can become caught within the idea of the judgment and allow themselves not to feel the experience for any sense they have chosen that experience for but simply tend to become lost into the idea of the judgment itself and just continue repeating the cycle of that experience without fully gaining for themselves any understanding of themselves you follow I want you to say in a sense not in terms of herbal say first of all great great great quantities of water first of all understand that there will be I say many ideas of imbalance now within the physical system understand that therefore the realignment of that physical system through physical means must take place through the most simple substances first you will then be yes that general cleansing and flushing out of the system first will be I'll say any opportunity for the natural imbalances the natural alignment to say take place within itself will also be I'll say alleviated to some degree by the confusion of that idea of that real theory you follow me Then there will be a little more in your term stability for the system itself to understand cultivate how to correct itself in that way. And that will be the beginning of the sensing of the idea of any of those natural ideas you call of say fruit reconduse idea. Then you add what is going to be those vitamins minerals necessary again for the furthering of the idea of the balance of the system. And this way very gently can the physical form be nurtured back in that way through a very very I'll say gentle nurturing belief system gradual belief system that centering itself where I'll say the self can then observe themselves in the center of the creation and then having arrived at that point of finally observing theelves in the center of that creation then they will understand the idea that they had projected for themselves in the first place and understand how to unlock themselves from the reality. of the choosing how to unlock themselves from the cycle which in a sense has only been created not from the direct experiencing of that reality but only from the experiencing of that reality to the artificial screen of judgment and you follow it also understand that your own imagination and now your own connections at this time will allow you to place yourself exactly in that position necessary for you in a sense to sense what is necessary for this endeavor to take place to unfold In that way most gentle in that way understand that an energy in yourself that you are now also moving to your future self. Understand the gentility and the power within that gentility and understand that there is a great deal of art in these nurturing. You follow you There be the understanding first of all that is not necessary I'll say for the analyzation of the situations for you to understand simply that you can take the effect that you now understand unfolding within your here and now present life and simply understand yourself to bring first of out experiencing that reality because of the effect that was created which will reinforce the idea of the cause and then understand simply that there is no need for the analyzation of the specific event. If you have the effect, if you have the cause, if you have the reality created by the effect in the cause, simply you can understand yourself in creating a different effect which will also create a different cause. You follow me?

**Speaker 3:** question. question. You think that will um more clearly see what she's up to as I think. What did you think? is this individual I thought that they understand the idea of the experience of the mirror of the mass consciousness at this time then you allow the experience of reflection in your reality totality. You must be offering that reality to the best of your ability for that individual to share that idea of yourself as well. be following questions. There has been no increase as you say in speed. Understand simply it is the formulation of the idea from the channel arriving at a focal point and I'll say relative viewpoint with respect to what you going to be the future self. understand that this represents more accurately in your terms the way at which the conceptual information and telepathic information arise within the channel now is reflected more accurately in that way. Are you following me? I don't understand that the transformation you are I'll say creating for yourself at this time and you are to realign yourself more towards your idea of your future self and in fact you will understand the idea as an increase in your own momentum. Question I understand that what you're going to be your telepathic comprehension is faster than that. Yes. Simply that is one of the ideas that you have been experiencing yourself limitation of the physical reality as you understand it. say that you have operated on a level of what is going to be vibratory limitation that allows you to ignore the idea of telepathic communication simply because it is quick and subtle and you do not listen. Now he said as you increase your vibration you will more match the idea on which telepathic communication takes place and therefore you'll be able to hear it more clearly in that way you follow me questions. I think it was similar to the other time that I went home and I had some interesting experiences. But it almost seemed like this time I was um traveling quite a bit. It was almost the uh the seemed like it was uh caught up in a strong uh running on my body and it almost lifted it off my bed and it was kind of steing but it went away but last time I told you somebody in my ear I mean Um, interesting. It really stepped up in and uh and I was seeing all kinds of different things. I appreciate you about You may simply ask yourself what you will do to apply the idea within what is going to be your life. I haven't really figured out how it really was going was going to talk about black hole. Allow yourself to continue the experience. Allow yourself to understand the experience in and of itself is the process. Understand that again you will not necessarily need to analyze the idea for you to understand the effect as it relates to your physical reality. Therefore, simply allow yourself to continue the experience and you will find yourself unfolding in that manner.

**Speaker 3:** Did you better better understand as you need to be understand that simply is a matter of allowance. There is nothing that you need to force with regard to the idea of channeling any idea, any reality, any situation, any perspective of yourself. Understand simply that the idea of allowance in and of itself is simply that every idea, every situation, every reality in your term ves for reality, ves for realization equally. The potential for any idea to exist exists equally with equal force as there is in a sense only one idea of creation in that way. One idea of the energy behind I'll say the realization manifestation of any idea within reality. Understand that any idea you wish to perceive I'll say complete within itself always comes with all the ingredients necessary as you understand it for its unfoldment. Simply when you stand in your own way and you excuse that there may be specific ideas, specific paths that need to be taken as opposed to simply allowing yourself to understand the unfoldment of any idea carried with it all the necessary ingredients for the unfoldment completely of that idea. Then simply allow yourself to remove the separation of yourself from that idea. Remove the separation between yourself. Understand simply that you are identify with the vibrational air to feel the channeling of the energy in that way through the idea of the excitement. So you understand that any idea which allows you to align within the idea of excitement outside in a sense represents to yourself at that point then that you are in that way totally aligned with that idea if you allow yourself to be excited. Understand if you are not excited about any ideas then understand that your alignment for that idea is not necessarily the manifestation that you desire. You follow me?

**Speaker 4:** What else?

**Speaker 1:** What would you recommend specifically? Understand she's correct. very precise allow to be so unfold. Understand you have your own timing. You're never ahead of yourself. Understand you never give yourself more than you can experience. Understand simply that every idea, every reaction, every emotion is in and of itself, never negative. If you allow yourself to experience completely that emotion, you will always find yourself with the emotions leaving you fully aligned with your own complete understanding and sense of your own purpose in that unfolded.

**Speaker 3:** Question for yourself at this time. The idea that what you experience as the idea of conviction. Commitment will simply be that idea that you are willing to understand that every expression of yourself, every situation that you can imagine for yourself in that way can be real. Understand that your dream reality, what you call your dream reality, your imagination reality, your physical reality are all versions of the same reality. Simply perspective of yourself from different viewpoints of existence, from different levels of your consciousness as you understand your consciousness to exist with the separations in between. Understand that you are now beginning to integrate within yourself those ideas of removing the separation between their consciousness. Not so that you will in a sense not be able to function within the physical reality as you understand it. Simply that you will be able to create within that physical reality outside the smoothness of the effect of the integration of all the consciousness. You follow me? Simply allow yourself to understand again you do not have to perceive directly this idea. Simply allow yourself to know, to trust, to feel that your imagination, your dream reality carries with you the same amount of reality that you experience within your physical dimensionality and understand it has real effect within your physical reality and such can always for you smooth the path of any endeavor that you desire to undertake for yourself by simply allowing it to unfold both within I'll say your physical reality, your dream reality, your imagination reality understanding and it unfolds within every single one of those levels. It is real and forms a part of the overall momentum of the unfoldment of that idea. Do you follow me? Therefore, understand that any commitment, the idea of conviction of your ideas is simply that knowing that living, that being that idea, have the conviction of your ideas to simply allow yourself to express them to be them. Understand that you do not have to care if anyone else cares in that sense. There will always be the compassion. Understand that you are not judged except as you judge yourself, as you limit yourself, as you understand your own idea, that you wish to experience the idea of limitation, that you wish to experience the idea of struggling and suffering to attain. Understand that the idea of experiencing the idea of struggling and suffering to attain is simply that you need to experience that idea once you have used that idea as a tool. It is now in a sense passing out of the understanding of yourself and your consciousness as you're forming your masses at this time through the doorway I'll say in which you are now passing. Do you follow me?

**Speaker 3:** Question. Our scientists are talking about Haley's comet as if something different is going to happen in our atmosphere because of Haley's comet coming back into the electromagnetic field. Is there something to that belief?

**Speaker 1:** Understand that to a degree there is the understanding from what you turn to be the physics point of view that will cause slight alterations in what you turn to be the electromagnetic activity around about say your planetary communications. But understand that to a degree this will be an effect which they will observe within certain ideas and parameters and experiments that they will undertake. For the most part there will not be that physical effect as you understand it upon the population of your plan. But understand also there will be that psychic effect. Understand that for a long period of time, a zero time to exist within your population, mass consciousness, there is always the understanding that the idea of the return of that idea of what you turn to be the comet is represented in your terms of a portent and will represent the idea of again that doorway, another cycle, a raising of the consciousness to I'll say the attraction to the idea of the extension of the self into space. You follow me? Understand? There are many, many, many ideas, physical bodies within your solar system in a sense that are represented by that type of cycle of different magnitudes. Each and every one understand that the greatest magnitude of that representational cycle of the idea of the periodic orbit of the comet will simply be that as expressed by what becomes to be the dark star within your solar system. You follow me? That will be found then every 26 million of your years. that idea which will occur within your solar system and will cause always the difference of balancing and alignment with the energies within I'll say the balanced state within the orbits of the planets within I'll say various manifestations of the ideas of physical bodies within the planet and there will be the idea of upheavalss in your terms as you understand it to exist understand that that will be the greatest representation of that particular idea of the cometary periodic orbit within your solar system represented by that great dark star so this is no accident this is all a part of It is all part of the timing. It is all part of the balance of the idea that was expressed in the creation of this solar system and the expression of the light that you have created as yourself within it. Primarily understand that within the creation of this solar system. In that way, in the balance that you understand from the idea of that dark star, there will be again the experience and the idea of also what you tend as you move on to the idea of upheaval. There will be the experience and the opportunity to experience the idea again once again of yourselves as the balance that we will get into as I say at a later time. the understanding of the channeling of that energy both positive and negative at this time and the integration of those energies together. You follow me? Understand that your solar system at that time I'll say your reality at this time in a very great way has chosen the creative I'll say expression of the idea of acting as that balance now in the completion of its cycle of understanding of itself within the integration of that positive and what you be negative energy at this time. So it will form a transition for itself wherein both of those ideas will be integrated and will allow you to I'll say begin another cycle in which both of those ideas will both channel positive results within your reality not negative results. You follow me question.

**Speaker 3:** Could you talk a bit on the anatomy of loss and fear when it is considered to be destructive energy? How to handle that?

**Speaker 1:** Again understand the first idea that every emotion what you call emotion will always be in itself positive. Simply what you don't fear will allow you in a sense within physical dimensionality to react to a situation in a way that will align you immediately with every idea that you know about yourself. It will center you completely allowing you a clear sight within any situation. You will be putting yourself through what you found to be that creative pressure in a sense creating a situation in which you must act and teaching yourself that only by acting will you allow yourself to unfold the reality in that way. You follow me so far? Understand therefore that simply when you allow the idea of fear to be viewed through your artificial screen of judgment analyzation. Will you create for yourself that idea that is expressed as a negative effect that is the repetition of a cycle that is in a sense what you told repeating as you say your vicious cycle of allowing yourself to create the idea of rage within you. The idea of the remoteness within you. The idea of that depression within you created from the fear. It does not stem from the fear. extends from the viewpoint of the fear through the artificial screen of judgment and guilt and analyzation. You follow me? Every idea expressed in the negative effect of an emotion is the viewing of that emotion through the artificial screen of again judgment. You follow me? When you allow yourself to experience any emotion purely as that emotion exists for the idea of that emotion itself, you will always find yourself in some way, shape or form more aligned with all of that idea of all that you know yourself to be. with regard to any particular situation in which there is the arising of that emotion specifically then with regard to the action necessary for that physical situation to unfold and allow you to transform yourself from that idea into another idea and therefore transform your physical reality from that experience to another experience. You follow me? Yes.

**Speaker 3:** Question. I sometimes refuse to take the action that the fear indicates

**Speaker 1:** that simply you will be reacting and that will be the idea that is created as you have experienced the idea expressed to you as the reactive self in which simply you will be creating for yourself many cycles that you will feel that you cannot get out of you follow me that there will be I'll say the hiding from yourself within various portions of your consciousness then the idea of that your consciousness can form pockets within health that deep information hidden from you. There will be the increase of that separation within the consciousness that will always allow the individual self to feel that there are portions of the consciousness which can in your terms sneak upon you and create difficulty repeating the cycles of difficulty throughout your life continuously throughout many ideas of lies continuously. Simply understand that that reactive self that cycle of the self the repetition in the negative effect is always created only when you do not allow yourself to act. Every time you allow yourself to respond to the emotion with the idea of an act, then you will always be understanding that the reaction and the reactive self in a sense does not in that way exist your momentum in that way will always turn to what you deem to be the I'll say negative effecting that idea as understanding it is I'll say again part and parcel of your overall sense of timing forward and I thought you will view any what you thought negative experience as also the positive idea which can added to that overall forward momentum and allow yourself to incorporate that idea, integrate that idea within yourself and understand that every idea within your reality is a part of your own forward momentum and in that way positive. You follow me? Yes.

**Speaker 3:** Question. Act this way, act that way.

**Speaker 1:** Understand again, you will always be experiencing every portion of your reality as you understand on the various levels of your consciousness. Understand there will be no need to analyze. Again, understand that is analyzation. Simply allow yourself to know that you will know exactly what you need to do in any particular situation that you create for yourself. Understand if you allow yourself the feeling to act in that way, the acting intent will be over before you can analyze it.

**Speaker 4:** I have a feeling that changing my career. All right. Hoping children and uh helping um my question was is does it I mean you know said about the reactive mind and such I mean so I'm wondering does it matter whether or not people help children because they make up their own

**Speaker 1:** I understand that to a degree every individual will already create their own sense of identity and timing and purpose within that sense of the sense but understand that again if you're simply acting within your feelings. Understand you will be simply doing the act. You will simply be sharing. You will be spontaneously creating that situation with all those individuals who will be wishing to share that with you for the unfoldment of their own lives. Again, you will not need to analyze your situation. You will simply do what feels right to you and you will find yourself in that way then acting with those children if that's the act. Simply again you'll be unfolding according to yourself as a spontaneous event. You'll be following your feelings. You'll be trusting your feelings. You'll be sharing what you are in that way. Understand that you will never attract any individuals within that experience who have not already also chosen within their own sense of timing to interact with you in that way. You follow me?

**Speaker 4:** Question. Yeah, I've been having uh quite a bit of difficulty this time around in finding something that will hold my attention and keep my excitement level up for

**Speaker 1:** understand you're making a judgment in that sense. There is no need for to assume that what you perceive to be your respective level in one form of identity in one form of reality will be the same manifestations physically as in another form of reality. Understand that we have said before and I the identity the idea the expression the reality will contain many ideas of timing within it and when you find yourself in that way expressing to yourself the idea of a quiet moment understand that is also part of the entire idea expressed to you by your initial excitement. It does not mean that living in the idea of ecstasy will mean that you will not be able to function in that way. You will not be able to fluctuate your emotional state in that way. Does not mean that you will be able to in a sense allow yourself one continual unmoving unchanging viewpoint of yourself. You will always experience all different facets of yourself and understand that way that simply that is all taking place because of the expression of that ecstasy within yourself because of the expression of that excitement within your idea that you are of design to express and unfold at this time within your reality. Again, do not make judgments upon the idea of the fluctuation within your emotional thinking will always change. Change is the only constant that there is. Understand simply that every change that you experience within your reality will all be a part and parcel of the unfoldment of the idea that you know yourself to be completely new. Therefore, that is the idea of the excitement. Simply that you do not necessarily feel that translation of the excitement all the time. Simply that you understand yourself to be equal to that vibration all the time. Take it for granted and trust yourself that you always be acting in accord with that idea as it is unfolding.