---
heading: Part 1
title: "Blending "
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1985-12-04
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 49
tags: ['ashtar']
---


Each and every one of you as you attract yourself to every event, every situation, every relationship, every idea, every perspective in your lives are always exactly on the path that you have chosen exactly on the path that you have chosen to be without interruption, manifesting in perfect timing all the ideas that you chose to experience and explore and express in this physical life that you have chosen.

Recognize therefore that as we now view your collective and individual consciousnesses and the collections of consciousness that each individual in your society is, you can know that you are blending as one consciousness even as each and every one of you allows yourself to be the strongest individual idea that you can be. For only in allowing yourself to fully be who and what you are will you truly allow the overall mass consciousness to know its own identity. 

And in this way allow yourself to form the idea of one self-aware consciousness upon your planet at this time of transformation as you have chosen to create it.

In this way recognize your society, our society and all the many societies that are in contact with you at this time are blending to form one society, one association. And in this way recognize that we are not your teachers unless we are also your learners. You are also teachers and learners. And in the combination of the idea of the polarity of teaching and learning, every being becomes a sharer. And in this way, every idea of every being is equal to every other being. Not more, not less, simply equal and different. And within this diversity comes the greatest sharing and the greatest unification.


## Question about Purpose and Projection

**Questioner:** Yes, guys. You've talked about a lot of great what we would call possibly philosophical viewpoints that are particularly applicable to planet Earth or to us anyway during this transition and transformation and the points are scattered across a number of tapes since the beginning of this year as we create time to exist. Wonder if you would be willing to give us a thumbnail sketch covering various points of our project projection and purpose into physicality. Concepts of timing, integration, separation, the effects of judging, judgment, expectation, worry, fear, that kind of thing.

**Bashar:** In this way, much of this idea will come out in the idea you call the sharing of different individuals' perspectives and points of view. But simply understand this: you, what it is you are, who it is you are, you are the purpose for which you are here, to be who you are, to be the you you have chosen to be. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** You have created the idea of a time frame physical reality in which to express this idea of yourself simply because you can. In this way, each and every one of you are all the different ways that all that is has of looking at itself. Our reference of all that is being normally in your society what you refer to as the idea of a creator. But in this way recognize that we view every being, every object, every idea, every situation within all that is as the creator by definition. All that is is all that is. It is you. It is us. It is the planet upon which you live. It is the air that you breathe. It is its own consciousness and recognizes itself to be self-aware as a single being but also recognizes itself as all it contains. It needs no purpose to continue to exist since it has existed before the idea of purpose was created. So have you because you are also all that is.

Now understand many times when you perceive the ideas that we share with you as philosophies, this will be in your vernacular the idea of separation as you have created it to some degree in that you feel ideas and philosophies are something that you have instead of what you are. Recognize what may be philosophy to you is physical reality to us and can be manifested. So your imagination being the link between your dream self and your physical self can allow you to know that when you act upon your imagination you will find all is real within you.

In this way, there will be the idea you have chosen to express in physical reality. That of creating intense separation of yourself from the all that is that you are. And now reintegration of that idea, removing all the levels, the barriers, the blocks and the separations and even the ideas that separations exist from between what you have created out of one consciousness to be a multilevel or layered consciousness. Physical consciousness, subconsciousness, unconsciousness, hyperconsciousness, mass consciousness. You are all one consciousness. And all the ideas of separation and labeling come from the choice of the cycle you have created to view yourselves as separate from the all that is that you are. This is not judged to be right or wrong. It is simply the way you have chosen to see yourselves for no other reason than the fact that you can because you are all that is and you will do whatever is possible.

You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes.

## Personal Question About Living Situation and Prediction

**Questioner:** Sharing. Yes. I would like to ask a personal question about my ultimate living situation as a ultimate. Well, I have a place that I would like to move to and I want to know if you can look into the future and see if indeed this is the place.

**Bashar:** We cannot look into the future. Okay. Neither can you. Neither can anyone. You are creating the future and the past from your present. The idea you call first of all before we address the initial idea you have brought up of prediction is not looking into the future which is removed from the present. The idea you call prediction is a sensing of the energy which exists at the time in the place the prediction is made. If that energy does not change because you view events as occurring in a time track and create the idea of a future separate from the present. Then if the energy does not change, you say it has come to pass. I have looked into the future and predicted. You have done no such thing. No one ever does. If you change your mind, the energy changes. So much for the prediction.

Understand in this way, you are always only sensing the present because the present is the only time in which you exist. Always and forever. That is why you can understand the idea of sensing what seems to you to be the future because you are not reaching into something separate from yourself but you are delving into a portion of yourself that exists right here and now with you. Future and past are right here. All your lives are simultaneous and all events in every life is simultaneous. It is a matter of perspective that is all.

In this way, recognize that you are creating your own destinies, your own free will, your own choices. You will never miss anything that you have chosen to experience. All dates with destiny are on time by definition. Now, allow me to ask you, are you willing to have the conviction to act upon what excites you?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** How do you feel about the idea of your move?

**Questioner:** I feel like it's long overdue and I'd like to have it over and done with as soon as possible.

**Bashar:** What is stopping you?

**Questioner:** Just the ability to have the place that I would like to have.

**Bashar:** And what type of a place is that?

**Questioner:** Well, there is a place which was formerly a Buddhist retreat which may or may not become available. I'm just, you know, wondering if it's stupid for me to wait for it.

**Bashar:** Understand that nothing in your terms is stupid. Every idea you create for yourself is valid. Though it may not be for what you expect you have created for. You follow the difference. Many times when you create an idea, it may be that the idea is simply created to lead you to somewhere you do not really expect to be led, though you will use the idea as a symbol to get you there without necessarily having to have that exactly manifest as you specifically ordered to. However, it is possible if you simply allow yourself to know that you are equal to that idea, that you are the event of living there itself. You can be that idea. You can be the situation of living in that structure. But understand within yourself this: if it is more simply the essence of the idea which you really want to experience, and it does not really matter exactly specifically where that idea is manifest, then you may or may not create a specific building in which to have it. But you may find that wherever you lead yourself, because you know yourself to be the idea, you will still have the experience you want to feel, no matter if it takes place in the same building you think it should or not.

You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. How do you feel about that idea?

**Questioner:** Well, I feel that's a great idea, but I would like to be where I would like to be.

**Bashar:** Then go there. Go there. Yes, go there. What is stopping you from going there?

**Questioner:** The fact that other people live there.

**Bashar:** For what? Why not go and talk to them? Maybe they will invite you to live with them.

**Questioner:** Well, I would like to live there by myself, I guess.

**Bashar:** Maybe they will then move out. Understand this. You are putting many expectations upon exactly the manner in which you think it has to happen for it to occur at all. You are closing all the doors through which the occurrence might happen in other ways. Act out your dreams. Act out your imagination. If you're attracted to a place, go there. So what if other people are there? We are not saying you are barging in or that you should in this way impose yourself upon them, but go and initiate communication with the place. And whoever is there is a part of the place because they are also not being separated from the situation. They are the situation. They are the place too. If you also wish to be the place and the situation, go and be it. In whatever way you can, you do not know in which way it may occur that you will find yourself automatically living there. Perhaps you will find as we have suggested, but they will tell you. You know what a coincidence. We have been looking for someone to live here who can take care of it in the way we think it should be taken care of because now we have to leave.

Allow, allow, allow. You do not have to make or force anything to happen. Allow your life to become an ecstatic explosion of coincidence. Go and act upon your imagination. Act upon your dreams. Act upon your excitement. Only by acting upon that which you know yourself to be will you put your reality into action. If you sit and wonder, the only thing you will be creating is wondering, not action.

You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes, I do. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Explore, explore, explore. Feel free. Follow your curiosity and allow whatever result occurs to be what you chose to create. Then it will always manifest in positive action. For example, you will go there, you will express your feelings of connection to what you want to do. They will say, "Well, the situation has it that you cannot live here." However, we know of another place. We will tell you where it is. Go look. See what you think in going to look because you know well all right. If this is the feedback I have gotten, this is what I chose to get. So I will follow my curiosity. I will follow myself, my life as it unfolds. I will allow my physical reality to be an obvious reflection of what I did choose to experience, not an interruption in what I think I should experience. And thus by following it, by flowing with it, I will allow the validness of these individuals to tell me what I have heard. Since I am reflecting that to myself, since I know I am creating my own reality totally, I will follow their suggestion. I will go and see this place. You may find it to be 10 times more to your liking and available.

You follow me? Trust yourself. That is all there is to it. Trust that you knew what you were doing when you chose to be physical and you are never going to let yourself down.

**Questioner:** All right. Okay. Thank you very much.

## Dream Visit and Animal Guides

**Questioner:** Yes. I came the first time last week and I have a lot of questions. All right. Wondering which question to ask first, but I was so interested. I read the transcript from the March 25 session. Yes. And after that I felt I dreamed about you and I felt that perhaps I came to visit you and I was wondering is that can you tell me is that true or to get more information or did I what — that's the problem I don't know. I felt in the morning that I had dreamed about a lot of things that you had talked about and so and asked more questions and so and so but I don't know what the answers were.

**Bashar:** Yes, you do. All you have to do to find out what they are is keep on living. That's all. That's all. Because you will always unfold and physically manifest all you have chosen to experience in this life. Always. And the more you allow yourself to know that there is no need to quote unquote interrupt your flow, you will discover the answers that much more quickly because they are all within you.

**Questioner:** That's true.

**Bashar:** That is one of the things you learned in your dream.

**Questioner:** Ah, thank you. Oh, thank you. One thing that really I felt wonderful about is when you talked about animals being guides last time and since I've never been here before, could you talk in what sense they are guides?

**Bashar:** They are willing reflections of all the ideas you are exemplifying within your different strata of consciousness upon your planet. They are reflections of how you see yourself. Understand in this way for example animals on your planet are territorial because you are. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:** They are always willing to act as a mirror for your emotionality. Always with unconditional love and support for whatever you are willing to do. They will die for you.

**Questioner:** Is this true of insects as well?

**Bashar:** Mammals. It is true of plants, minerals, everything. You and the life forms you call cetacean, whale and dolphin, are the only two groups upon your planet that are karmically reincarnated. All other life forms on your planet are simply reincarnated and exist in any life within conscious knowingness, not within any idea of the process of analyzation or thought or judgment or separation. And to a great degree, the dolphins and the whales have also chosen to not really experience very much of this separation either.

**Questioner:** Would you clarify how animals are reincarnated as you referred to them just now?

**Bashar:** Simply in the manner that you are reincarnated physically. It is simply that they do not do it out of a sense of karma. They do it out of a sense of the idea of attachment of being a reflection, a loving reflection of whatever you need them to be here for.

**Questioner:** Do their individual consciousnesses then reincarnate much as ours do only without this idea of karma?

**Bashar:** To some degree, yes. But it is more connected in the sense that they see themselves not only as individuals but primarily as a series of relationships to every other being in their reality. They see themselves as relationships to other things more than an individual.

**Questioner:** What about pets? Pets especially pets dogs and cats. Yes. Are they not more individualistic than other kinds of animals?

**Bashar:** They take on and reflect the individuality of those they are reflecting. They themselves intrinsically are not necessarily more individualized. They are perfect mirrors reflecting the individuals around whom they congregate.

**Questioner:** Huh. How do pets feel about their bodies once their consciousness leaves? Once they die, does it matter what they do with their bodies?

**Bashar:** No.

**Questioner:** Okay. Well, we have such a tradition with humans with...

**Bashar:** All right. But allow me to remind you that when you leave your physical body, you will not care either.

**Questioner:** I thought not. Yeah. So, why have a funeral?

**Bashar:** You can have whatever you wish.

**Questioner:** No, I don't care. No, but I've been wondering about that. We have this tradition and a lot of times traditions do mean something more than just a tradition.

**Bashar:** You may always implant symbolic interpretation into any tool or ritual. It will be viewed quite differently from your non-physical perspective. Right? It will not be judged. It will simply be viewed differently.

**Questioner:** Aren't funerals very much for the people who are remaining alive?

**Bashar:** Yeah, that's what I thought. Right.

## Transition to Fourth Density

**Questioner:** Another question I have is in the transcript you talk a lot about being here to help us make the transition to the fourth dimension and that we are in a third dimension in this physical reality I assume. Yes. And but when we die or when we leave our bodies at night or so don't we go into the fourth dimension?

**Bashar:** Yes. Understand that fourth density is the last density in which you have both physical and non-physical existence. Okay. There is a fourth density existence even as there is third density physical existence. To some degree they are similar. However, fifth, sixth and seventh will be totally non-physical as you understand it. Uhhuh. You in the fourth density, we operate from third, fourth, and fifth.

**Questioner:** Ah. And so your purpose then is to help us make the transition.

**Bashar:** It is to allow you to allow yourself to choose whatever you wish to make your transition be. We are also in this way similar but different, a reflection in the same manner as the animals to you. Okay. We are allowing ourselves as you allow us to reflect to you portions of your own consciousness that you wish to explore so you can integrate it within your conscious recollection of yourself and be more aware of more of yourself and that is making the transformation from third to fourth density.

**Questioner:** I see. Okay. Being more aware of more of yourself even while we're still alive.

**Bashar:** Yes, of course.

**Questioner:** Oh, okay. Well, I was always assumed we don't die. Huh?

**Bashar:** We don't die. Of course. No.

**Questioner:** Alive in this on this planet. Yes.

**Bashar:** This is the transformational life. That is why you can consciously become aware of it in physical life this time. Otherwise, like many of your past lives, you would never have even conceived that the idea could be possible. Right? You cannot perceive that which you do not contain.

## Creating Your Own Reality and Free Will

**Questioner:** Yes. Would you clarify then this idea you keep referring to — your reality is a perfect reflection of what you want. However, many of us since we have created the idea of separation when you say you we consider that to mean our outer aware ego consciousness. You consider it to mean that. That's what I said. That's what I meant to say anyway. Thank you. Yeah. Well, there are others. All right. that are but no need to speak for them. You are speaking for yourself. All right, I'll do that. I'll play. So would you clarify this idea? Since I have... Well, I'm asking the question for other people in this case too. Why? Cuz I understand the principle. Are they here? Um I don't know. How about you ask it for yourself and then you may be able to share it with them later. Okay, I'll ask it. Understand that no matter whether you say I or we, I will understand that you are asking it for yourself. That is my perspective of you. Okay, whatever. I'll ask it as though I were asking it for myself. Um, I create the idea of separation such that I view myself, my outer aware ego consciousness as all that there is of me. And then this idea comes along of there that I create my reality and I'm saying to myself, well, I didn't create this accident. Obviously, you're referring to other portions of myself that I consider separate from myself. And yes, I create the idea of difficulty in connecting your use of the term you with my outer aware eco-consciousness and all the other parts of myself. Would you elaborate on what you really mean when you say you create your own reality and how it reflects all the other portions of our consciousness? The total you. What does that mean?

**Bashar:** Creates the idea, the non-physical. All right. Okay. Creates the ultimate choice of what you wish to experience. In this way, that non-physical higher conscious you creates the choice of creating a physical life, a physical reality. In this way, the physical you, the physical mentality that you recognize, you physically recognize to be your physical mind creates many of the methodologies of choice. The manner in which you fulfill the non-physical choice to have the experience. By analogy, the non-physical you says you will walk down this hallway. The physical mentality determines how you will walk down the hallway. But walk down it you will because the physical mentality is subject to the non-physical oversoul.

You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. Will this have answered your question?

**Questioner:** Yes. Now what about those cases where the physical beingness finds discomfort in that which the whole soul beingness has?

**Bashar:** Then that is simply the way and the methodology that the physical mind has chosen to walk down the hall in discomfort.

**Questioner:** Let's think in terms of like an automobile mishap. Yes. Where the guy to all his present consciousness doesn't believe that he had anything to do with that. So what would you comment on that?

**Bashar:** I just did.

**Questioner:** Well, the guy to the oversoul it does not matter. The oversoul knows what the purpose is. It is up to the physical mentality to discover that. Right? What I'm saying is the physical mentality has not chosen a methodology for getting into an accident.

**Bashar:** Then that is the choice. Period. And that is the purpose of the life to experience the idea of separation and the frustration that may come with it. But understand that when the being is once again non-physical, they will know why they chose to create it that way. And they will understand how it has added to the overall understanding and creation of themselves as a total being. Okay. To the oversoul, it does not matter ultimately in this way what the physical mentality thinks. That is the methodology that has been chosen, has been preferred, then that is the one that will be physically lived. Understand that to the oversoul there is infinity. There is no need to think that they are wasting time in experiencing a life in that manner. To the oversoul lives are simultaneous. It is all going on right now.

Will this have clarified the idea to some extent?

**Questioner:** To some extent. I have problem though with this. You have what?

**Questioner:** I don't understand where the free choice comes in when we're in the physical body.

**Bashar:** All right. How you go about it is the majority of the free choice you experience in physical reality. The fact that you will explore certain concepts is the choice of the oversoul. And the physical mentality will not be able to not explore those ideas except in one circumstance, suicide. But when you suicide, you automatically go back to the point where you know that this is what you wanted to do and you will put yourself right back in a similar situation until you allow yourself to fulfill the agreement that you made from physical consciousness to your higher consciousness and vice versa.

**Questioner:** One moment do you follow?

**Questioner:** Um yes I think so to to say all right keep it simple no need to complicate it.

**Bashar:** Recognize in this way simply all we are saying: you in your non-physical state will determine to experience a certain concept or idea. The physical mentality will be the determinant of exactly how you will experience that, what symbols you will create, what situations, what kinds of relationships. Trusting that there are no interruptions in your life and that everything in your life is a product of what you do want to experience will allow you to know and to be in positive accord with the non-physical choices. So your life will become a positive joyful manifestation rather than a frustrating limited one. Yes. Thus, you can in this way almost actually in a sense not have to experience what you chose to experience by allowing yourself to recognize what the experience is for and simply integrating the idea within your overall knowingness before you have to create the physical experience and put yourself through that.

You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yeah, I think so.

**Bashar:** That can be one of the ways in which you can allow yourself to go about learning what you chose to learn.

**Questioner:** All right. What about the interruptions? You said there are none.

**Bashar:** No, but in the first case you said provided there are no interruptions. The idea that you create an interruption. Oh, I see. There are no real interruptions. Even if you create an interruption, you have chosen to do so. Okay. You're not really interrupting yourself. You are still in control. Even when you create a situation in which it seems you are out of control because you are controlling the idea of creating that out of control situation.

**Questioner:** But we still have to interact with other people and they all have this.

**Bashar:** Well, but they all have their own realities. Yes, of course. But you have agreed to interact in many different ways and understand this. One of the ideas for yourself in what we have spoken of in terms of not necessarily needing to manifest negative ideas so that you can experience the idea you chose to experience is to know that every individual already exists on every level of reality. And when you see them change, it is because you have changed yourself. And in this way, all you need to do to interact with whatever level of those individuals you wish to interact with is to put yourself on that level. Then you will only interact with those individuals on the level you know yourself to be.

**Questioner:** Yes. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. I think so. Right. She made a point about free will. And I think the point that that's trying to be made here is that in our outer aware consciousness, we don't always have the control that the concept of free will, 100% free will, seems to be telling us. All right. And I think that's the point that I wanted you to address.

**Bashar:** The majority of what you would think of as quote unquote true free will comes from the totality of your being. Therefore mostly the non-physical side.

**Questioner:** Right, so then in certain cases of course you know whether I'm sitting in the chair or whether I stand up as an element of free will for my consciousness but in those cases of burglary, accident, etc., those being not free will of our... oh yes yes yes yes of your physical mentality. Understand those are also ways to go about looking at specific whole concepts. There are very few specific whole concepts. The idea of being burglarized is not a specific whole concept. It is a way of allowing yourself to look at a portion of a specific whole concept. The idea of being abundant. I understand that. What I'm saying is that the physical consciousness does not choose the burglary to occur. Yes. What the overmind chooses is that you will explore the facets of abundance. Your physical mind says I will either explore this facet by knowing I am abundant and not having to create the idea of somebody being able to take something away from me or I will choose to explore it by separation point of view and having somebody remove something from me. That is your physical mentality doing the methodology. The only thing the oversoul has decreed to you is that you will explore the idea of abundance in whatever way your physical mentality chooses to.

**Questioner:** So you're saying we choose the burglary by virtue of choosing not to view ourselves as abundant.

**Bashar:** The idea of separation as opposed to integration. This is all there is — physical reality is polarities. All the experiences that you create in your life with your physical mentality all have to do with polarities. Either integration or separation. That is it. That is all there is.

**Questioner:** What the point that keeps coming back here is that we do not choose to have somebody burglar.

**Bashar:** Yes. You choose it by believing in it and attracting it to you.

**Questioner:** But I'm saying not on the conscious level. Not on the physical conscious level. Yes. Yes. I don't agree with that.

**Bashar:** All right. Understand that one moment. Okay. Your unconsciousness and your subconsciousness are not products of the higher consciousness. They are products of the physical consciousness. Okay? Viewed from the separation viewpoint. Understand that even many of your modern psychologists understand there really is no such thing as an unconscious. It is an excuse. Okay. Therefore, when we say it is a product of your physical consciousness, we are including unconsciousness and subconsciousness.

**Questioner:** Oh, well, now you tell us. Thank you. Does that make it clearer?

**Questioner:** Yes. And that's the point I've been trying to get at. We have a stream of consciousness that we know that our self-awareness. Tell me one more thing. Okay.

**Bashar:** The viewpoint that you have a separation in your physical consciousness into an outer awareness and unawareness and a sub-awareness is a physically conscious choice. It is a reaction from something you fear to face. Okay. Therefore, it is a conscious choice.

**Questioner:** When you say it's a conscious choice, would you say that you should also be able to remember making that choice?

**Bashar:** You can understand that many times the only reason you do not is because you assume it to be painful. In this way, we do understand that your society because of its choice of experiencing separation has put certain limitations upon your consciousness that allows you to imprint yourself early in life with habits that you may not in your exact vernacular be outwardly consciously aware of that you have. Right on. Understand however it is still even though you do not recognize it — the mechanism itself of creating the unconscious and subconscious portions is still a conscious act. You do decide though you may not remember it right now because that is also a product of the decision. But you do decide even at an early age to actually consciously shut down certain portions of your awareness. It is a conscious decision. But once you make the decision, you do not remember because that is a part of the decision.

**Questioner:** Okay. Well, for someone who has an awareness of his thoughts and says, well, I don't remember making that decision. I'm not aware of my subconscious. I'm not aware of my unconscious. How would you state it in such a way that it would be clear to them that they are in fact creating their own reality even though they do not believe?

**Bashar:** From the one word: trust. Okay. Unconditional trust will allow you to open all levels of your consciousness physically so that you will have one outer aware consciousness that can then be in synchronous harmony with the non-physical higher consciousness in an integrated point of view rather than a separated point of view. Understand it is the symbolic creation of the unconscious and the subconscious which keep you from consciously conversing with your higher consciousness. They are the blocks you create and put in between your awareness here and your awareness there.

**Questioner:** Then a statement that could be viewed as valid would be even if a person does not consciously recall making a decision for something such as a burglary, it is happening at a level other than his outer aware ego consciousness whether it be subconsciousness, unconsciousness or higher consciousness or but allowing yourself to know that you have made the decision to have this will allow you to remember having made the decision of course but for a person who believes that he is only his outer aware ego consciousness. Yes, for him to realize that he does have different levels on which he is making decisions and that it is in fact his responsibility will allow him to realize there are other levels and therefore integrate them.

**Bashar:** Yes. Good.

## Barriers and Re-education

**Questioner:** Thank you. Oh, thank you. For sure. One moment. The other male. Oh, yeah. Could you please talk about what it is in the physical mind some of the barriers involved in seeming to stop the spirit of being aware of its own omnipresence?

**Bashar:** What we have just discussed, yeah, that's right. The idea in this way simply is that you have a habitual ritual, that is all. Create a new habit. Trust that if that is the way you feel you want to look at self, then act as if that is the way you look at yourself. And you will create a new habit that will allow you to see how that habit can only contain the idea of integration and not separation. And bit by bit, you will transform into that new viewpoint. And then all your actions will be based upon that knowingness of yourself rather than a separated viewpoint of yourself. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. So it's a matter of just re-education of the mind.

**Bashar:** Yes. Your personality is an artificial construct. It is not who and what you are. It is a tool. It will do what you want it to do. When you know what the idea of yourself is and trust that it can be what you are.

**Questioner:** Well, if we're there already, yes, why are we playing the game of thinking that we're not there to be there already?

**Bashar:** Why not? Because that is one choice that you can do. It is something you chose to do and began the cycle approximately 25,000 of your years ago. Now this is the end of the cycle. You are choosing something else.

**Questioner:** Are you saying that for me personally or just as all of you?

**Bashar:** That is why you are here in this transformational life. 25,000 years is the time period for this phase of humanity. Yes.

**Questioner:** Where were we before? Before the 25,000 years. Yeah.

**Bashar:** In many other civilizations and many other ideas both on this planet and off.

**Questioner:** So we came here to get messed up, huh?

**Bashar:** Sense. Understand this idea. One of the ways in which you can know you are creating more of yourself is by the creation of very rapid accelerated intensified highly focused experience. Another term for physical reality. It is a great acceleration of what you want to learn because it is so intensely focused.

**Questioner:** So in other words, the being wants that much more of himself. So he seems to take away more to find out how much more he is.

**Bashar:** Yes. Very good.

## Eckankar and Other Paths

**Questioner:** Yes. Have you heard of Eckankar?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** Do they exist into the upper densities, seventh density?

**Bashar:** You all do.

**Questioner:** Well, there they talk of planes of existence. I was wondering their planes of existence. Are those the seven densities?

**Bashar:** Basically, yes.

**Questioner:** And would you consider them of a positive polarity or a negative polarity?

**Bashar:** The ideas basically are neutral. Individuals expressing any tool can use them positively or negatively.

**Questioner:** In particular then somebody named Reeart Tararss. Are you familiar with him?

**Bashar:** That entity only to some degree simply we will say this: the ideas that you attract yourself in this way from these individuals, do they allow you to know that you are completely self-empowered to choose what you want? Or do they subscribe that there is only one way to achieve higher consciousness, their way?

**Questioner:** Well, they say their way is the directest method, but they say other paths lead to the same place ultimately.

**Bashar:** All right, but understand this idea. Everyone says their path is the most direct method.

**Questioner:** I've noticed that.

**Bashar:** That is because for each individual their path is the most direct method. But if there was only one path there would only be one person. Now does that tell you something? Look around. Yeah. Every individual is not on a path. Every individual is a path by definition. You are all the different ways that all that is has of looking at itself. What is valid for you, use it. If it does not ring within you, don't. You are not going to be right or wrong. You are only always going to be you.

## KGB and Psychic Functioning

**Questioner:** I have a few other questions too. May I this time? There are a few. And I was wondering about the KGB. They have attempted this idea.

**Bashar:** It has not been in your terms successful to a great degree. They're still attempting it. Understand in this way. What they have yet to understand is that the idea you call psychic functioning is a process of integration, not separation and domination.

## Waking Up and Awareness

**Questioner:** What does it take for an individual to wake up or to become aware of "I am now on the physical plane"?

**Bashar:** Simple knowingness, an interiorization type of meditation. Allow the universe to be within you. You can use whatever tool you find necessary whether it be meditation, out of body, or death.

## Roger Salazi Books

**Questioner:** I'll make this the last one. Written by an author Roger Salazi. I believe it is not within the consciousness of the physical channel. Elucidate. Oh, I see. Oh, no. It'd be too complicated then. Supposedly a science. What is the question? Well, I just wondered if they were fiction or fact. They're written as science fiction, but they seem to be highly...

**Bashar:** Allow me to say our perception of the energy is approximately what you would call 70% based upon the idea you call fact.

## Accomplishing Purpose

**Questioner:** All right. Going back to you said something about that we always accomplish what our purposes are. I can't remember the exact — okay — in the same lifetime or...

**Bashar:** That's a continuous. All the ideas you wish to experience in this lifetime you will experience in this lifetime barring the idea you call suicide. Okay.

**Questioner:** So there could be an overall idea. Something that we think is an idea might not necessarily be the idea might be part of an overall idea. For instance, if I want to be a well-known singer, songwriter, performer, say, okay, there might be a bigger purpose that encompasses that so that if I didn't accomplish that in this lifetime, I still might accomplish my overall purpose. I mean, that may not be a purpose in itself. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Is something like that a purpose in itself or is that just another choice within?

**Bashar:** It is another choice, a larger purpose. Okay. So even if someone thinks that would be the ideal thing in the life and they don't choose to have that manifest and yet they accomplish their purpose then on an overall basis that wasn't — understand once again you as you are are the purpose of this life. To live you, to live as you, is the purpose. Now choose how you want to live and what you want to do being true to you. If singing is it then that will be a reflection of your purpose. If it is not, that is a reflection. If you create the idea as you create the symbolic ideas of success and failure which do not really exist, then understand that the purpose is only to succeed completely as you or fail completely as you. You follow me? You are the purpose. The methodology of being you is up to you. Okay? But you will always serve the purpose because the only purpose to this life is being you.

## Identity and Resistance

**Questioner:** Okay? I you know I sometimes I wonder who I am because I feel like an actress a lot because I never wanted to be here. I feel like you obviously I did because I'm here but it's like I feel at least my physical part of me seems to really resist it and I have resisted what being here on earth being in the physical realm.

**Bashar:** Allow me to ask you what do you imagine would be what you would do in the non-physical realm?

**Questioner:** I would be I guess I could do that here now.

**Bashar:** Yes, you can. And understand this. You are — recognize again that even when you create a situation in which it seems you are out of control since you are spontaneously creating it, you are still spontaneously creating. Even when you create judgment, you are still creating. You are always just as spontaneous in physical reality as you are in non-physical reality. But you can also create the idea in physical reality that you are not. But even that is a spontaneous creation.

**Questioner:** Well, I just it's like I haven't wanted to play within the whole the way the system is set up like...

**Bashar:** Then create your own. You are your own system. There are many, many, many ideas within any particular overall system that you have agreed to quote unquote share with the mass reality that you can still change in accord to the system you yourself happen to be, or change yourself in other words, or act upon the system you know yourself to be. Act upon the purpose of your life being you.

**Questioner:** I feel like a lot of times acting on that has been an escape from wanting to with the purpose of wanting to escape rather than with the purpose of maybe creating something new.

**Bashar:** Do you feel in this way that you may be judging that acting as yourself? You are saying that this is an escape to use it as an excuse because you feel that if you act as yourself, you will be judged.

**Questioner:** I that went right fine. I don't even know what you said.

**Bashar:** All right, one more time. Sometimes in your society, individuals will use as an excuse the idea that they think, well, if I act the way I really want to, I will really be escaping from reality. When in fact, what they mean is, I am afraid to act the way I want to because I fear I will be judged for acting that way. Thus, I will use as an excuse the idea that I will not be really facing reality if I act the way I want to.

**Questioner:** I had a fear that I wouldn't be facing reality if I acted the way I want. I mean, that's legitimate. I really — it's not so much what we just said.

**Bashar:** Yeah, but you said that's a cover up for the fear of being judged. But the idea quote unquote of not facing reality is something that you make a reference to in terms of what you call social pressure.

**Questioner:** Well, I guess I'm feeling a wonder from my — if you were the only being in the world, you would be the only one to define what is and is not reality. Yes, I know. Therefore, when you say not facing reality, you are saying you assume you are not facing up to what everyone else's opinion of reality seems to be.

**Questioner:** Yes. I wonder if my overall purpose is to like be able to be in the reality that we share as mass consciousness to some degree.

**Bashar:** Yes, to some degree. But understand this because you can also conceive of the idea of your own creativity. You can allow yourself to know that doing that can still be enjoyable. Does not have to be something that will be fearsome or fretful.

**Questioner:** I just notice that from what you said about the personality. What did you say about the personality? It is an artificial construct. Okay. Yes. And that really bothers me because I know that I mean I see that I that's what I feel like I'm always acting. It's like if I act a certain way I get a certain response from people. If I act this way, I get — if I wear certain clothes, I get a certain response from people as opposed to other clothes.

**Bashar:** Allow me to ask you this. That bothers me. One moment. Do you feel that in doing that you are being true to who you are? Or do you feel that you are not being true to who you are by doing that and that is why it bothers you? Or do you feel you are being true to who you are and the only thing that bothers you is that you feel you are being judged for being true to who you are. Which one is it?

**Questioner:** I feel like all those are aspects of who I am. Oh yes. Okay. Yet it bothers me that I get different responses to the different aspects of myself. I don't know.

**Bashar:** But by definition, a different aspect has to elicit a different response.

**Questioner:** Okay. Well, that's what I'm trying, you know, that's why I'm working out here, you know. It's like, but is that not obvious? If you turn a crystal, it's obvious in the light, will not a different facet catch the light than the one previous. However, what bothers me is that I only — for instance, what bothers me in my relationships with other people is I like certain aspects of them and I don't like other aspects. And other people may like, like you said, the idea of judging. Other people may like certain aspects of me and not others and therefore maybe I should — I get think well I should only show these certain aspects to this person because if I — but understand you are only judging yourself. So if I didn't — when you do not judge yourself you will not attract individuals who will judge you because you will not need to reflect that to yourself. Yeah. Because when I feel like I have to only reflect certain aspects of myself to people, it's tiring. It's like I can't let those other aspects sneak out, you know?

**Bashar:** And in one life or another, they will anyway. Why not right now?

**Questioner:** Thank you. All right. Thank you. Bashar.

## Ramfa and Judgment

**Questioner:** Yes. Did you have questions? Yes, I have. Hi, Bashar. Yes. How you doing? Perfect. How are you? I'm doing much better, thank you. Much better. Well, a few months ago when I came to see, I wasn't doing great, but I'm doing great. You are doing perfectly for what you were doing then. You are doing perfectly what you are doing now. I know. We know. That is why we are teasing you. Anyway, I just wanted to give you my greetings. Thank you. And I have a couple of questions. Do you know an entity? Do you mean Ramfa?

**Bashar:** Yes, I do. To some degree. He was honored about 35,000 years ago. Yes. And he's channeling now to a lady called Z Knight. Yes. Jay Z Knight. That's right. Do you — simply this: that being is a reflection and an opportunity for every individual that comes into contact with that being to recognize their own godhood. Their own enlightenment. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. Many individuals interpret many of the messages from that being as being something negative. Understand? In this way, it is only a reflection from that being of the ideas you carry within yourselves. There is nothing in this way being put forth that is in your terms egotistical in declaring itself to be an enlightened one. It is only a reflection of the idea — if you listen to all the words — that each and every one of you are also the enlightened ones.

**Questioner:** That's right. No, I do believe that and I saw that. Yes. And I know what he means. And I know that we are all enlightened, experiences in different ways. And he calls himself nice and well I really enjoy him.

**Bashar:** Good. There is also another — what does it mean exactly when you said I will send you a runner?

**Questioner:** What it means quote unquote exactly is that there is energy being shared by your willingness to be attracted to that entity that you and that entity will co-create or spur into creation a messenger to yourself from yourself and that simply that entity recognizes it as a separate consciousness that you have created and simply urges through your willingness to be in proximity to that entity that that runner or messenger shall now proceed. It's simply a reflection of your own willingness at that point to begin to talk to your higher consciousness.

**Questioner:** That's right. What form does that runner come in?

**Bashar:** Many different ways. Okay. Thank you very much, Bashar. I have another question. Yes. Have you heard about Anika? Yes. Can you tell me anything about Anika, please?

**Bashar:** Only this. At this time again recognize simply that each individual in creating their own representational viewpoint of who and what they are and what they are connected to can only speak for themselves. If you vibrate in accord to some of the ideas then use them as your own valid tools. Ideas you do not vibrate in accord with — somewhere else you can come and go without judging completely one way or another, but simply knowing what you prefer. If there are some things you prefer, use them. If there are others you do not prefer, do not use them. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. I went to see her and I really judged her. Actually, I told her, "All right." I even told her in a group that she was crazy. She was insane.

**Bashar:** Understand what I — yes. Yes. Yes. Your opportunity to see the judge within yourself. What matter to you what the individual creates for herself? If you recognize your own godhood, your own creatorhood, then you recognize what portions in this way are alike within her viewpoint and what portions are not and make your preference, but not a judgment. Right. Right. Yeah. I realized that I should not have made a judgment. But I think is when I said that I agreed because I realized that I had no dependency on who she was saying that — understand she also attracted you to say that. That's right. That's right. What it did for me was that I really recognized myself and it made me very whole at that point because then I knew that I had — the only way for me to be whole was to be true to myself.

**Bashar:** Very good. Then understand also that in allowing yourselves to be attracted together, you each have provided truly a service for each other. Right. Thank you. Thank you very much. Yes.

## Personal Sharing and Conviction

**Questioner:** I'm the red poppy. Yeah, I'm the red poppy. Nice. Well, the thing is is like Steve said, six years ago, I was the body was too. Nice. And all all right.

**Bashar:** Now recognize that you are sharing. You are always sharing by your speech, by your presence, by your emotions, by your willingness, by your creations, by the fact that you are physically real. You are sharing. Do not judge yourself for sharing. Do not judge yourself for knowing what you are doing. You are doing what you have chosen to do. No matter what it is in this way. And understand there is no need to feel in your terms bad about the idea of how you feel. You are now expressing or not expressing yourself. You are expressing yourself in whatever way you require yourself to to come to certain conclusions within your own mentality about who and what you are.

**Questioner:** Yeah. But if the expression is not — if the expression is more of a lie than it is a truth, then I'm more of a lie. Okay, here we go. I messed up already.

**Bashar:** No, you did not. You can never do so. But you are judging yourself.

**Questioner:** Yes. What is a lie and what is truth? Who the hell knows? Oh, thank you. Does that take some of the burden off it? Kind of. But you see, I want...

**Bashar:** Yes. It's — use your own words. Allow me to tell you. We do not create the idea of needing patience. We will wait for you. We do not need patience. Every moment of sharing with you is a joy.

**Questioner:** Oh, very good. Very good. Would you like to do that again? Deep breath in. Big sigh out. How does that feel?

**Questioner:** Like I'm getting closer to what I can't say. I one more time.

**Bashar:** While you are doing that for a while, allow me to point out that even in your society, what you call your medical practitioners, this is one of the ideas some of them begin to look for when they have in your terms a patient that is recovering from something. When they know that the patient begins to sigh in that manner, they know that the patient is beginning to take back into their own hands the responsibility for their lives and what they have created. Thus, they can stop quote unquote worrying about them. Okay. All right. All right. We will ask you some questions. Just get it. We will ask you some questions. Understand that in this manner, this is our version of getting it and your version of cocreating it. How or what do you see yourself in your physical life doing that you enjoy that excites you? How or what? What if you felt good then you obviously understood it on some level. Understand we are talking to every level of you not just your physical consciousness. Okay. You have very, very, very, very vivid imagination. Yes. Yeah. My mother told me that one time. Yes. Go ahead and use it right now. Create your feelings and your pictures. Are you doing in your life what most excites you? Yes or no?

**Questioner:** Yeah. I guess so.

**Bashar:** You guess. Well, can he? Yes. Oh, thank you. Conviction. Very good. Conviction. What is this project that you are doing that excites you so much? All right. As you wish. I can't put that into words like the rest of everything else. You cannot. You already have. Have you put it into physical reality for yourself? All right. Is it something that you are willing or not willing to share with anyone else?

**Questioner:** No. Willing but...

**Bashar:** All right. Remember what we said about conviction. Do you feel that if you share the idea you are going to be judged?

**Questioner:** No. Crucified.

**Bashar:** What is the difference?

**Questioner:** Died and then buried. Yeah. Why? I all that kind of stuff. But all right. Very good. Now this idea that excites you, it is something then — may we assume that if you do it, you do it alone. Or is it not something that you do but only something that you feel and think? All right. Is there anyone who has ever seen or shared in the doing of this thing that you are reluctant to share?

**Questioner:** Not on this play.

**Bashar:** All right. Now, let your imagination play out. Imagine for a moment that you do share it and imagine that you are, as you say, crucified for sharing it. Go through the entire scenario. Live it up. Act it out in your imagination right now to the hilt. All the wailing and gnashing and weeping everything.

**Questioner:** Well, see, I don't feel that that kind of holds like any water.

**Bashar:** Oh, do you mean that is a little bit too intense?

**Questioner:** No, it is not too intense. It's kind of sliding off the side.

**Bashar:** Sliding off the side of what? And sliding into what?

**Questioner:** What? I don't think you're — wait a minute. All right. Are you speaking of your sanity?

**Questioner:** No.

**Bashar:** All right. Well, I — it's questionable times. No, I think she may have been insane, but I'm not.

**Bashar:** She who? And what is insanity? Do you not understand that by the strictest definition from our point of view every being in the universe is insane?

**Questioner:** Yeah, I — insanity is not the — then what kind of sliding are you talking about? From what into what?

**Bashar:** I — what I have in my thoughts and what you're communicating doesn't — it's like do you know why? Yeah, because I haven't. Very good. Because you are not willing to have the conviction of your beliefs. Thus, it is not real.

**Questioner:** Yeah, but it just could be coming out of the hole.

**Bashar:** Could be coming out of the whole what?

**Questioner:** I have to plug my ears so I can't hear me talk.

**Bashar:** All right. Very creative. That's great. Before you say anything, may I ask you a question? Do you think that once you say what you are going to say, if you find that it may not be so unusual after all, do you think you might be disappointed?

**Questioner:** No. You see, if I say what I'm going to say, then there's a whole billions of stuff that I have to deal with that like a whole — if this is not true, then great. None of the rest of anything is true either. But if this is true, then I have a whole thing I have to deal with.

**Bashar:** But truth is relative. Yeah, I know. And I know all that stuff. Understand one thing. All that stuff is what creates your real reality. As we said, philosophy is all well and good to think of it as something that is simply a separate mental discipline. But your philosophy is responsible for the creation of the way your reality manifests. That is the only truth. And you can make it whatever kind of truth you want — positive or negative depends on how you are willing to see yourself. Your entire reality is a product of what you believe yourself to be. Nothing more and nothing less. Therefore, the idea that "if this is true" has really no weight. Simply the question is if you are choosing to consider this idea to be valid for you then it carries weight in your reality and will become your reality. If you do not consider it to be valid, then you are experiencing something else. And because every idea is valid equally, then you can choose whatever idea you want because no one idea is any more weighty than any other idea and does not have any more power to enforce itself than any other idea does. You are the only one who gives empowerment to the validity of a situation. Now will that make it somewhat easier to share the idea now that you know it is not some ultimate truth but simply a way of looking at something.

**Questioner:** Okay. Well, let me get myself here so it — spit it out.

**Bashar:** Now realize of course as you already know we do not have to do anything. Okay. You are sharing. Allow me to remind you that always when you share even in the way you are sharing right now without having said a word, you are teaching. You are sharing. You are teaching. You are learning. You are allowing all these other individuals to be learning aspects of their own personalities that they have not seen before.

**Questioner:** Not ready for what? Hey, we're missing some fellas. Let us be released. Yeah. All right. All right. All right.

**Bashar:** Everybody proceed at your own pace. We are simply reminding you that anything that you share is worth learning. Are you still cool?

**Questioner:** Oh, yeah. I forgot I was being there with him.

**Bashar:** Are you sitting up straight? Mhm. All right. Are you throwing your shoulders back? No. Why not? I didn't think of it. Go ahead. Is that being cool? It is having some conviction. Changing your physiology will change your emotionality because they are always connected. Therefore, okay, speak.

**Questioner:** Yes. Amongst anyone, I speak to a world. Yes. And I and I and I...

**Bashar:** You are always speaking to the world within you. Yeah. Always. You are the world.

**Questioner:** I'm not the one that has — this body when six years ago.

**Bashar:** You are trying to say you are a walk-in.

**Questioner:** No. What are you trying to say? That I'm here and that one's not.

**Bashar:** Yes. So, everyone always changes. Everyone in the very next moment because you are creating every moment that exists — is not the same person or body that they were in the last moment or six years ago. Everyone is always changing. You in every moment of time are not the same person and not the same body. Try defining walk-in. The idea in your terminology of a quote unquote walk-in is that when one spiritual soul entity leaves a physical form, that which you call death, but the body in this way is then occupied by another non-physical soul, not needing to experience the birth process, but continues on in the same body and examines and explores their life in physicality from that point forward. Not the same consciousness. Yes, that's a walk-in. Is it a valid concept? Of course. Well, it is rare, but it does happen. How do you feel?

**Questioner:** I don't know.

**Bashar:** Yes, you do. Because you laughed, which allowed you to know you were centered. Laughing is centering.

**Questioner:** May I ask you another question?

**Bashar:** You are not sure? All right. Are you sure I may ask you another question.

**Questioner:** No, I just feel the pressure of having to be the mother of a daughter.

**Bashar:** But you chose it.

**Questioner:** Yeah, but...

**Bashar:** But nothing. I mean, you know, it's like I handled all that.

**Bashar:** Handled it where?

**Questioner:** Well, they have their life and I have mine.

**Bashar:** Yes. So, and you are obviously sharing to some extent in that they agreed — they agreed to have whether they consciously realize it or not — someone who would create the situation for themselves.

**Questioner:** Yeah, they did. All right, then lighten up. You have chosen it. They have chosen it. You have all chosen it. So what? All right. Then why are you allowing yourself to judge yourself for this?

**Questioner:** If that is the way you feel, can you not love them? Yeah, I do love them. But not as my parents.

**Bashar:** So what? Everyone has been everyone else's parents anyway.

**Questioner:** Yeah, but they don't understand that.

**Bashar:** So what? Express your unconditional love and allow them to understand that on whatever level for them it is valid. Why take it personally? You know who and what you are and what you are doing. Love them. You know it will all equal out anyway. You know that in your higher consciousness as you are always in communication and all of you know exactly what is going on. Yes.

**Questioner:** [Laughter]

**Bashar:** Does that not feel good?

**Questioner:** It feels like a burden has been lifted.

**Bashar:** Well, you have done all the lifting.

**Questioner:** Yeah, I know. But you know. Yeah, I know. But you know — all very colorful. Now, what will you do? Get used to this. And what else? You're already used to it. But not publicly. What would you like to do?

**Questioner:** Public. No. No. I just got to do what I know I have to do, which is — may I suggest that throwing out everything I write for one thing. All right. Very good. Very good. Stop trying to belong where I don't.

**Bashar:** But you do. Yeah. Where I belong. More often than not in your civilization, it has been a matter of needing to create a relationship in order to feel complete. When you know you are already complete, then you can choose to share a relationship. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes, I do. Thank you. For sure.

## Technical Questions

**Questioner:** I have a question from our last hearing. We were talking about the copper disc and the electromagnets. Yes. How are the electromagnets to be mounted? Are they supposed to be in a circle around the disc or...

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** Okay. And could you tell me again which poles are supposed to be towards the disc?

**Bashar:** Either all the same. However, is there any specific distance it must be from this? Close. In your terms, approximately 1/8 of your inch, no more.

**Questioner:** Thank you. I thought that the north south polarity was to align with the axis of the disc.

**Bashar:** No, no, it's to be the circumference around the disc. Yeah, I know. But I mean, I'm speaking of the idea of parallel to the axis, right, of the disc. You may place one of the poles toward the disk. Okay. In the plane.

**Questioner:** Oh, okay. Well, on that same idea. One moment. All right. Female, are you the rule?

**Questioner:** No. I have one more question. Okay. Now the disc is 6 inches wide. Okay. And we're going to have 20 electromagnets surrounding the disc in a circle. Nice. They are to be in the plane of a disc, right?

**Bashar:** Yes. Okay, that's all I have to ask. Thank you. Now, you can vary this in whatever way you deem appropriate within your own imagination and see what happens. Thank you. Nice.

## Conflict and Relationships

**Questioner:** Earlier this evening, you were discussing personality and avoiding people that create conflict in your life.

**Bashar:** Avoiding. We're not talking about avoiding anything, not creating, not attracting.

**Questioner:** Not attracting. Yes. And yet I've found that often when I find myself in situations, for instance, my roommate right now, and I seem to run into conflicts. All right. And I find that that says something about me that I have to work out in a sense.

**Bashar:** Also, understand this. You can many times simply be being absurd. Allow me to say many times the idea of what you experience in other individuals is a reflection of something you are viewing within yourself about yourself. But sometimes the idea simply is that you are willing to be a reflection for those individuals to see those portions of themselves without necessarily saying that is something you have to work on too.

**Questioner:** How do you know the difference?

**Bashar:** You will know how quick are you to become involved in the idea that you have to be in your terms sucked into the conflict. How loving are you of this individual?

**Questioner:** Very.

**Bashar:** All right. How loving are you of yourself?

**Questioner:** I'm not sure.

**Bashar:** Thank you. There is your answer. Understand in this way. It is an opportunity for you to understand that unconditional love begins with yourself. Otherwise, the universe that you are will not contain it. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. Thanks. Thank you.

## Hair Color and Self-Value

**Questioner:** Sure. I've gone through this thing like in the last seven years I've changed my hair color several many times and I still feel an uneasiness. My natural color is a kind of a dark brown. When it seems like I was at my happiest period or something in my life was when I dyed it black and I loved it and I loved the response I got from people but I also it was my own spirit. I was like in a certain way of being that seemed to be very attractive at the time to a lot of people. And now I have my hair and then I had red hair for a while and I had different things and now I have very light hair and it almost seems kind of wimpy to me or something. I feel like oh...

**Bashar:** I understand as we have before described you the idea of the exploration in this life of the polarity in the twinness. Understand that even in yourself you have your own twinness. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** And in this way it is an opportunity for you to recognize the idea of choosing to explore yourself through the value of yourself and not...

**Questioner:** You follow me? The value of myself which has nothing to do with my hair color. Yes. But it was a symbolic reflection, not the idea that other individuals valued you. You valued yourself and so attracted that reflection.

**Questioner:** Several times I've tried to dye my hair dark again and didn't have the same feeling.

**Bashar:** That is not what you are exploring.

**Questioner:** I tried to go back to that obtaining that.

**Bashar:** All right. Understand in your terminology using your vernacular. It is not a matter of going back to that idea but going forward to it. Keep living. You are going to the explorations of yourself that you have chosen to. Now that you understand this polarity to some degree, because you are questioning it, you are bringing yourself full circle. You follow me? Yeah. Yeah. The stronger you become within the idea of yourself as completely valid as you are. In this way you will simply once again reflect that to yourself from all the individuals in your reality.

**Questioner:** Okay. So yet there are certain things that will make us feel better about ourselves like people will get a facelift and then...

**Bashar:** Automatically you can sometimes use the idea of creating a symbol to reflect to yourself a change that has already occurred within you that you are only using the symbol to reflect. Yeah. Right. Right. And I also feel I feel like I'm a different person than I was. So that people that I knew — there are people that I see that I haven't seen for a while who don't even know who I am.

**Bashar:** Of course you are different. As we said you are a different person. Personality always changes. It is a tool. It is an artificial construct. When you change your idea of yourself, your personality has to change with it.

**Questioner:** Yes. But yet, however, I still recognize these people.

**Bashar:** And in the idea of being an expanded you, you will always recognize that through which you have already been. You follow me? In the same manner that we still do recognize and contain third and fourth density. Even as you make your transformation from third to fourth, you will still recognize all the ideas of third.

**Questioner:** Well, yeah. Well, I'm saying yeah, I recognize them. Yet, how come they don't recognize me?

**Bashar:** You are in this way still of an idea of yourself where you are not sure of the expansion and its effect, so to speak, on your society. Therefore, you are attracting to yourself the portions of those individuals that will come to you in a questioning manner because you are still questioning yourself. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** Sometime they will recognize what portion of you they will need to recognize in reflecting to themselves. Understand in this way also if they do not quote unquote recognize you they are not exploring those ideas within themselves at this time. Yeah. But you can recognize them because you have already explored those ideas within yourself. You follow me? Yeah.

## Family and Alien Origins

**Questioner:** Also, I have felt, well, I guess this ties in with the idea of you saying me looking at of being in between — walker of between realities because all of my life I felt like my family wasn't really my family kind of. I was like, this is not...

**Bashar:** The same idea as...

**Questioner:** No, it's not. No, I know it's not. But yet I felt no because I felt this since I can remember, you know, being alive in this life.

**Bashar:** This is quite typical in this transformational time because you all are beginning to recognize that you are all from somewhere else.

**Questioner:** Well, everybody on the planet is — no one is natural to this planet.

**Bashar:** Okay. Except as you create yourself to be. No one is natural to any planet. Planets are a creation.

**Questioner:** I mean, I used to be my grandparents and I would had this vivid imagination and would like imagine that they weren't really my grandparents that they were aliens from another planet and they have been and then I felt very — then I got afraid of them. I made up this whole story in my mind about it or whatever whether it was true or not but I felt then I was afraid. I remember when my grandmother gave me like a glass of milk or something. I thought well I don't — I better not drink this because she might you know she's an alien and she might have put something in here. I mean I just made up this whole scenario you know about it. It was real you know.

**Bashar:** Yes. Something to in this way give you precognition about some of the ideas you would be exploring in your physical life so you could start getting used to it. Okay.

## Judgment vs Preference

**Questioner:** I have been doing a lot of self analysis of my thoughts just being aware of mind and how it reacts to various situations just to understand them.

**Bashar:** You have been thinking about your thoughts, right? And contemplating them and actually trying not to be them, but just watching the flow.

**Questioner:** Trying or not being them. All right. And I've been watching and seeing that judgment of others comes up and it's almost an automaticity. And my question here is: is all judgment of others, let's say a critical judgment of others, based on and have its essence in judgment of self. Okay. So if that's so then is there an analytic process that one can apply to oneself to uproot self judgment?

**Bashar:** Preference. Explain simply the idea is that judgment is an invalidation. Preference is a recognition of what you vibrate in accord. You follow me?

**Questioner:** No.

**Bashar:** You recognize in preference simply the ideas that are reflective of the type of being you know yourself to be that you have created yourself to be in this life. Judgment is an invalidation of the type of being you have chosen to be in this life.

**Questioner:** Oh, so in other words, a judgment of others is really the recognition of the non-achievement of that which you want to be.

**Bashar:** In a sense, it is an invalidation of other methodologies and other portions of yourself that you are not willing to integrate. Preference is a recognition of portions of yourself which are seen to be a part of you, not something you do not want to be a part of you.

**Questioner:** All right. So then how could I be aware of that and apply that in situations where the automaticity of judgment of others seems to be stronger than my awareness of what you just said?

**Bashar:** All right. You can simply recognize that you have formed a habit as you say automatically. Recognize in this way again you can form other habits by simply acting as if you already are a person who uses preference instead of judgment. Okay? If you were that type of person, how would you act differently? Act that way. And if you find yourself now and then judging, do not judge yourself for having done so. Right. Right. That's another one to get out of. That's a sticky one, too.

**Bashar:** It is as sticky as you wish to make it. Right. Understand that when you say that is a sticky one, you are right then and there creating a reinforcement of the idea. It is something that you have to struggle to get out of.

**Questioner:** See, and that's another thing too is I find that when I'm in contact with this area, there seems to be an energy within my body which gets hot. Yes, there's a heat that occurs and that heat seems to have this label on it that says I'm stronger than you are.

**Bashar:** Haha. Understand this idea. You are simply in a negative fashion translating the idea of the friction that you create when you compare the idea of yourself as a lower vibration with the idea of yourself as a higher vibration.

**Questioner:** Oh okay. So in other words it's just the pushing against of the two different directions that creates friction that creates heat.

**Bashar:** Uhhuh. As we have said in this time of transformation, many of you because you are still creating the idea that you have a more slowly moving self that is moving into a more quickly moving self are still making a comparison between the two rates of vibration and will experience some of the transformation in terms of the idea you call fever.

**Questioner:** Ah okay. Headaches or yes physical manifestations disease because I have been feeling a headache ever since I was 16 years old almost 24 hours a day — now when I tell this to people they go my god you got to be kidding — they actually have more pain than I do conceptually sometimes yes.

**Bashar:** You recognized at that age because that is the age of high psychic activity and opening and awareness usually in your society although many times it is suppressed but in this way you simply recognized the idea of the creative pressure to be who and what you are, to be in the center of yourself. Only the idea of the imposition of blocking it creates the pressure in a negative fashion that you call a headache.

**Questioner:** Okay. So is that blocking it just past personalities that seem to be in conflict with present values?

**Bashar:** In a sense, yes. You are simply still creating those past personalities to be presently influential when they are not because by definition they are now in the past. And you are in the present. Follow me.

**Questioner:** Mhm. Therefore, I just went into one of those energies again. Yes. Relax. Okay. Let it flow. Let it fill you as you fill your universe. Well, that's the thing. I sometimes feel myself spreading out where I can touch everything. Yes. You know you are everything where I am everything and I'm very comfortable with that thought — it's not even comfortable with the thought it's just the acceptance of pure being — it is what you are right but then when my mind takes a look at it it goes ah it gets smaller this is too wide — thank you.

**Bashar:** That is because you are judging that your mind can't handle it. You are assuming again the creation of the friction between the two levels as you are creating levels to exist. Understand that as long as you view physical reality to be something less than that all encompassing idea that you feel when you are connected, you will continue to create that type of friction and judgment. Allow yourself to know that being physical is just as connected as anything. Right? It's just acceptance then on all levels. Yes. Right. Now if you by your own definition are connected to everything, you have to be connected to physicality too.

**Questioner:** But isn't that friction a necessary part of the desire to want to grow?

**Bashar:** Because if I was really excited, it is one of the methodologies that you have created in your society. It is a habitual ritual.

**Questioner:** Oh, no pain, no gain.

**Bashar:** Yes, that is your prophecy. Yes. Self-fulfilling prophecies. No pain, no gain. It really is kind of a crummy concept.

**Bashar:** It is not crummy. It is the idea you wished to explore. Now you can know that it has served your purpose. Therefore, without judgment but with preference, you can choose something else.

**Questioner:** You know, I have an interesting question that pops up which is that I find certain aspects of my mind. I don't think it's me because it doesn't feel like me. It feels like just thought energies.

**Bashar:** It is still you. Okay. It's still me.

**Questioner:** It seems that there's a portion of self that feels that a vice grips or barriers are necessary in order to like pruning a tree, you know, you cut something off, the energy goes into the other area.

**Bashar:** A suggestion. Enjoy them and they won't feel painful. Enjoy them. Look at all the pain you got. Wow, that's great.

**Questioner:** Well, I do that sometimes and when I do it, it feels wonderful.

**Bashar:** Well, then but then it comes back again because you are creating it too. Because you cannot believe it can be that simple because you cannot believe you can enjoy it, right?

**Questioner:** It's almost as if a certain aspect of myself needs this energy for me to think that growth is taking place. And it seems — all right. Embarrassed with myself thinking that.

**Bashar:** If you say so. Well, I guess I did. Yes, you did. Thus, that is what you create. You are sharing. You are giving. You are exploring. You are creating. You do not have to be embarrassed about that. This is true. Screw what I just said. That's just an earth term. You don't have to get — yes. We will assume you have simply said you are making a preference. Right. Right. Thank you. Nice.

## Dream Interpretation

**Questioner:** I have a question. Two questions actually. I had this dream a couple of days back. I've been thinking about it quite a bit. May I ask you a question? Go ahead. Are you sitting up straight? Yes, I am. I mean, I'm sitting up straight now. All right. The dream really has no specific beginning. I'm just in it. And yes, I'm going to meet a friend who has been imprisoned for a long time, say for about 2 years, which is kind of bizarre. I don't have any friends who have been imprisoned. What about you? I'm getting to that. So, I go on this long journey to meet this friend who's going to be allowed to be free for a little while so that he can meet with me — or she, I'm not quite sure. All right. Very good. So, as I get to this place where this person is supposed to meet me, the whole dream started to recede and I never really did find — all I wanted to find out was why the person had been imprisoned and I never did. So, it left me with a very strange feeling of dissatisfaction.

**Bashar:** Now I have just gotten through talking about this entire idea — simply a reflection of the creation of the idea of limitation of the self and the beginnings of the realization that you do not have to be limited. You were meeting with your higher self, right? But that the higher self didn't want to meet with me. I never really got to meet the higher self. You did not want to meet with yourself because you still fear the idea of being that powerful and that unlimited. You still feel that you need certain limitations in order to function. Yet you are beginning to see them as a prison. So bit by bit you will make appointments and eventually you will get to meet this person yourself.

**Questioner:** I have come to the realization after — you know in the past couple of days after I had the dream — are you still sitting up? Yes, I am. All right. That the dream really does apply to me. Of course. Still what — the feeling of dissatisfaction was because I kept trying to chase this wisp of a dream and I could never catch up to it.

**Bashar:** You are caught up. Do not judge yourself. The limitation is judgment. The idea of the limitation is being judged to be a prison. Do not judge yourself and you will be able to meet with that person.

**Questioner:** Okay. I guess my second question is — ever since I was — sleep on it. Okay. My second question on my first one. The first. Yes. I think I have to give it a lot more thought.

**Bashar:** Sleep on it. Not thought.

**Questioner:** You mean I shouldn't think about it at all.

**Bashar:** We never say should or shouldn't. You can do whatever you want. We are simply suggesting that since you have begun it in your dreams, you will continue it there.

**Questioner:** Okay. I understand. Okay.

## Love of Flying

**Questioner:** My second question again has to deal with something I greatly love to do ever since I was a kid. Yes. And sometimes I feel that it is more of an obsession with me than an actual hobby or an actual love of flying. All right. And I've searched in myself for the answers. But do you fly?

**Bashar:** Yes, I fly, but not as often as I would like.

**Bashar:** Why not?

**Questioner:** Oh, well, it's a question of economics.

**Bashar:** A question of what?

**Questioner:** Cost. I got cost.

**Bashar:** Yes. What has cost got to do with it? Why not the ecstatic explosion of coincidence that will always allow you to be exactly where you want to be when you want to be there by not assuming that it takes any specific thing to get you there except knowing that that is what you are and also including in that the idea of when you find yourself doing something else that that is what you really want to do.

**Questioner:** Uh-huh. There are many ways to fly, right?

**Bashar:** I'm actually talking about actually flying in the literal sense.

**Bashar:** It is all the same thing.

**Questioner:** Well, I don't consider a 9-to-5 job in a computer factory flying.

**Bashar:** But that is why you are creating the idea of a prison. Because you are making a separation between those ideas. Once you know that you are always flying, if that is what you love to do, then you will always feel like you are and everything in your life will take on that aspect. You will fly through life. Is there any way you could tell me why I have this particular love for this?

**Bashar:** Yes, because it represents to you an idea that you are judging to be more free than the physical experience. Understand that when you are in your dream state, you are out of body and you subconsciously remember it to be alike unto flying. You follow me? You feel freer in that state. When you allow that state to exist in your entire life, you will feel free in your entire life. Okay.

## Tetrahedral Communication Device

**Questioner:** I'd like to talk about the tetrahedral shape communication device briefly. Okay. Is it something we have discussed as an artifact for construction? Is it a transmitting device as well as a receiving device?

**Bashar:** Yes. Okay. If it's okay with you in the future, I'd like to refer to it as the tetra transceiver.

**Bashar:** Is all right with me? You may refer to it by anything you wish. Perhaps you would want to be a part of that creation. We are great. The capstones. Yes. Polish them. Yes. Okay. I think that's all I have this for you.

## Anger Toward EST

**Questioner:** Yes. I have two questions. The first question has to do with my great anger for approximately the last couple of weeks centered towards the organization of EST.

**Bashar:** All right. You have not had anger toward them. I haven't. You have had judgment. Okay. All right. Anger as a natural emotion only lasts approximately 10 to 15 of your seconds and is used for aligning yourself. When you then judge, it continues in another form. It is not anger.

**Questioner:** I was wondering why I feel the way as strongly as I do about this organization and I was wondering if it is because I feel that...

**Bashar:** Do you feel like you are some sort of a victim?

**Questioner:** No, because I've never — I feel that maybe other people who have experienced it might be victimized and...

**Bashar:** Oh, I see. You are taking responsibility for everyone else.

**Questioner:** Well, I just think that they charge too much money and I feel that...

**Bashar:** Then why are you there? Why am I there? Yes. Are you still there? Where do they charge you too much money?

**Questioner:** No, I have not ever become a part of it because...

**Bashar:** Then what is your concern?

**Questioner:** Well, why do I feel so strongly that other people want?

**Bashar:** Because you are taking responsibility for them rather than allowing their own path to be valid for them. Okay. Right. Okay. And you are judging that they are not getting anything out of it. Right. Which they are for themselves no matter what it is. Even if they only also come to the conclusion that they are charged too much money. That is what they wish to experience. Right. Right. Does that mean that they want to be victimized?

**Questioner:** Perhaps.

**Bashar:** Perhaps not. Many of them may not feel like victims. Many of them are getting what they need. Right. Okay. Yeah. It's whatever they want to get out of it. Yes. Okay. You are creating them to be victims and so surrounding yourself with the energy of victimhood and that is what you are creating as that feeling of anger.

**Questioner:** Okay. I was just wondering if it had any connection with my project, which I would hope you would want — I know will benefit other people and my idea that I want to do it at a low cost so that as many people as possible.

**Bashar:** All right, then that is your creation and you will attract all the individuals that you will need. Good. Okay. I'm very glad I'll do that. You will attract all the individuals you will need. Whether it is one or 1 million.

**Questioner:** Oh, okay. And I will attract the number that I need when I determine for myself what the number is that I need. Is that correct?

**Bashar:** In a sense. Okay. It doesn't have to be a conscious determination. It will be automatic. As long as you are being that idea, you will automatically be being supported because you are being of service to all that is and being a part of all that is, you will automatically be supporting yourself.

**Questioner:** Good. I'm glad.

## Book Recommendations

**Questioner:** All right. The other question is about this book called The Rays and the Initiations by Alice Bailey. And I was wondering if there's if I should just keep reading it even though I really don't understand what it's about.

**Bashar:** It is up to you. Do you feel like reading it?

**Questioner:** Well, I feel that if I continue to read it and if I reread it maybe a lot, I will eventually grasp the concept.

**Bashar:** Then perhaps that is your method. Perhaps it is not.

**Questioner:** Oh, well, actually, I was wondering if there was something else that I could read that would tell me what they're telling me.

**Bashar:** Why not know that you will attract to yourself what information you need and simply allow yourself to be attracted to it? Okay, perhaps it will come in the form of someone handing you something. Perhaps you will simply walk into one of your stores and walk right up to the shelf and see it right there in front of you and know that that is it. Allow yourself to become the ecstatic explosion of coincidence. Okay? Right place, right time, always. All right. Thank you. All the information you have attracted to yourself is exactly what you need at the moment. Trust that it is so, and you will see how it is.

**Questioner:** So, can I say something? Of course. Great. I don't know how much you know about the Arcane School, but their whole program is free. If you write to them and you let them know, they'll take you through a total understanding of it.

**Questioner:** Oh, you who wrote this, you mean? Yeah. Oh, okay. There is one idea right there. And the whole thing is completely free. You can borrow all their books and it's only a dollar to borrow their tapes. There you go. All you need to do is draw from the pool of information you are constantly surrounded with by having the conviction to simply make a statement. This is what I require. Then you will find someone who will share it with you. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes, I do. Thank you. Thank you. Nice.

## Fear

**Questioner:** Hello. My big thing nowadays is fear.

**Bashar:** Your big thing?

**Questioner:** Fear. Fear. Fear. Fear.

**Bashar:** All right. Fear. Fear. Fear. Fear. It sounds real funny right now, but...

**Bashar:** Yes. Funny. Funny. Fear. Well, fear can be fun. Fun with fear. If it be like this all the time, that'd be great. If there's a lot of people around it can be — I don't have any fear. Can be like this all the time.

**Questioner:** Well, when I'm by myself, like in the house, my imagination gets really wild. Good. And I get real scared.

**Bashar:** And why? Because I scary. What is so scary about you?

**Questioner:** About me? Yes.

**Bashar:** About you? It is the only thing you can fear. There is nothing outside yourself. You are it. You fill your universe. What is so scary about you? Do you know? Then what are you afraid of?

**Questioner:** burglars and people that come in your house.

**Bashar:** And that is an extension of how you see yourself. Do you feel in this way that you need to be reminded that you are always abundant by having someone show you that when they take something away from you, you still have all you need?

**Questioner:** Well, I don't care about them taking things. I don't care. It's a murder and stuff like that. All right. Dying.

**Bashar:** And why in this way do you feel the need to reinforce that idea? Why do you feel you need to experience it?

**Questioner:** I don't know. That's why I'm trying to think about for a long time and I'm having trouble integrating fears, those fears and those thoughts.

**Bashar:** All right, make it okay. Stand up. Here. What do you feel about the idea? Do you call your origins off this planet?

**Questioner:** How do I feel about it? Yes. On this planet? Your origins off this planet. How do I feel? Yeah. Well, I feel great about it.

**Bashar:** Why?

**Questioner:** Because it's very exciting.

**Bashar:** Is this not exciting being scared all the time?

**Questioner:** No, it's not. Not to me.

**Bashar:** You are not excited about it?

**Questioner:** No, I feel pain and fear.

**Bashar:** Pain and fear. All right. Anxiety. Yes. Yes. Which is the same energy as excitement when judged to be negative. Oh. Now allow me to remind you that when you are in a constant state of fear, you're not bored, are you? No. Sure not. Then you are excited or anxious as you choose to call it.

**Questioner:** Yes, I'm very anxious.

**Bashar:** What is in your terms more positively exciting about where you think you came from than where you are now?

**Questioner:** Where I was from? There was no way you could have your physical body scratched. No way at all. No. None whatsoever. None whatsoever.

**Bashar:** Now you have just realized a connection with that you there. You follow me? That you there is also this you here. If you choose to blend the two ideas, why cannot this planet be that planet? This reality be that reality? Here you are. Have you not brought your reality with you?

**Questioner:** I guess I didn't.

**Bashar:** It is here. It is here with you. It is in you. All you need to know is that if you can conceive of that idea of yourself as a potential which can exist here, then understand that even as you create that conception, that is you here or you could not perceive it. You have to be equally of the vibration of that which you are perceiving at the moment or you could not perceive it. You are equal to it right here and right now. Allowing yourself to be that you here will allow you to transform this reality into that reality. They will be the same reality and then no one here will be able to scratch you either.

**Questioner:** I get your idea.

**Bashar:** All right, that is a start. Yeah. Now allow me to say again that it is simply a matter of what we term the habitual ritual. You simply have but to allow yourself to know that in walking down your streets in this civilization that you call your planet Earth, it is the same as if you are walking down the street in the other civilization. You are that civilization here. You are its representative. You are that civilization. It is you. You are walking in that world and this world simultaneously. Allow yourself to know that it is all right to allow your fears to relax in the sense that even if you create an interaction with another individual, by allowing yourself to know that that interaction is serving the purpose of reinforcing who you really know yourself to be, then the result will always match that reality. No matter how it starts, it will always wind up reflecting the reality that you know yourself to be.

**Questioner:** Okay. I like that. I like it. Right. Love it. Yeah. Why do you have — why did you ask me to stand up?

**Bashar:** So you can stand tall. Have conviction. Conviction to know that as you stand, you see, you are only sharing. You are not exposed. You follow me? You may sit down if you wish. Thank you. Understand. The idea of understanding is supporting — standing under — supporting the idea. Allow yourself to know that you are understood. That the reality you know yourself to be is understood by all other individuals who can perceive you. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. Thank you very much for being that reflection of that reality in your world at this time.

**Bashar:** For you are a portion of the blending and the sharing and the timing of the transformation which is perfect. Great.

## Trilateral Commission

**Questioner:** One moment. You are third. You are second. Can you tell me something about the trilateral commission? Can you tell me who they are or and also what kind of polarity they're based on?

**Bashar:** They are simply representatives of those ideas you call your corporations.

**Questioner:** You're saying that they're not individuals then?

**Bashar:** Yes, they are individuals. Yes.

**Questioner:** Then it's all just third density and just business related then in a sense — there's no connections with higher densities?

**Bashar:** Of course as each individual has a connection but for the most part it is rarely conscious on their part.

**Questioner:** I okay — it's not like an Orion conspiracy or anything?

**Bashar:** No.

**Questioner:** Thank you. Okay. I wanted to ask you another question too it's a little kind of personal. You guys tell jokes where you are?

**Bashar:** Only in a sense. I mean — other than ad-libbing I know you're we have joy we have fun. Could you tell me a joke? Do you have jokes like with a setup and a punch line?

**Bashar:** Only in the sense of this manner: one of the ideas we have already expressed to you is that within our society in a time past we began to use this expression as a greeting: "How are you? Well, things are not going as I expected."

**Questioner:** Congratulations.

**Bashar:** Things are not going as I expected either. Very good. Then we know we are functioning within our higher selves. That is very good. That works well.

**Questioner:** Thank you. Not like you. Okay.

## Spaceship Location

**Questioner:** Do you have your spaceship around here? Where is — can it be seen at this time?

**Bashar:** I am still upon the idea you call a mother craft approximately still 150,000 of your miles distant. We are within your solar system at this time.

**Questioner:** Okay. And have been for some time of your time as you count time. How long? Okay. Approximately the idea you call a month or so.

**Questioner:** Okay. So there's no spacecraft available to be seen.

**Bashar:** From time to time there is and from time to time it has been. Yeah. Ask your friend Steven. Yeah. He already told me tonight when I came — broad daylight.

## Skeptical Friends

**Questioner:** Also I have friends of mine who would be interested in having a session with you but they say that they are very skeptical.

**Bashar:** So what? Be interested? Why not? Great. As long as I can be skeptical of them, too. I'm sure it will be very enjoyable. All right. Then I'll show with Randall. Thank you, Rand. Then we will enjoy our skepticism together.

## Parallel Origin Point

**Questioner:** Thank you. Yes. A couple weeks ago you spoke of a parallel origin point time track. Yes. I'm wondering if that is true for all beings or if it's mainly for earth beings or for those that have projected themselves into the idea of multi-dimensional physical realities.

**Bashar:** Yes, that would. However, there are beings that in this way in your terminology have never been physical as you know it at all and thus have no need for the idea of the parallelity. Certainly then this would apply also to earth servers. Yes.

**Questioner:** Then the question that I have is though it is not as focused and that is why there is more attention to the idea of earth server as opposed to having an origin point somewhere else even though again everyone has already been everywhere else. Yeah. How is it unfocused or how is it less focused?

**Bashar:** Simply the idea that you do recognize more association to other points of so-called origin than the Earth itself.

**Questioner:** Kind of within the context of importance in a certain sense like oh that origin is not as important as my origins here.

**Bashar:** Yes. Understand that you create your origin with each life. Because it is the focus for one of the reasons why you are here. In different lives you can have different origins so to speak, right? You are sort of backtracking to a certain place that represents a symbol that you are exploring here now. Okay. The creation of the origin point for each life is this parallel origin point track, right? Yes, in a sense. Okay. In what sense? Simply that it can take many variations of form and dimensionality.

**Questioner:** Okay. Would you say that in general an earth server is one who's been here for an extended period of time?

**Bashar:** Can be, does not have to be. You can make a decision in one life to be an earth server and that will bring with it all of the feeling that all of the other things are not as important.

**Questioner:** Ah I see — what is an earth server?

**Bashar:** Yeah. Simply as we have said, those individuals who are recognizing that they are quote unquote more attached to the assistance of the transformation upon Earth at this time from an Earth point of view than they are from any other extraterrestrial point of view.

## Nicola Tesla Reincarnation

**Questioner:** Terrific. Okay, next question. Has Nicola Tesla reincarnated in this time track on Earth?

**Bashar:** Our immediate perception is that for the most part the idea is yes, though there is some diversification with the consciousness — a different kind of rearrangement than was previously done in all the other lives. So it has shifted focus to some degree.

**Questioner:** In what way has it shifted?

**Bashar:** Different connections, different purposes.

**Questioner:** I see. When did it reincarnate?

**Bashar:** The shifting of the focus causes there to be a blurring of the focus of the time track. We perceive the possibility of either the... 10 feet will be enough. Yes. Okay. Well, is it really realistic that we would expect the thing to vanish into some other dimension?

**Bashar:** It might. You may research if you have not already done so the work of an individual in what you call your country of England called Searle. Spelled how? S E A R L E. Okay. Uhhuh. Okay. Will we be able to disconnect the power from this thing once we get it up to 2300 RPM?

**Bashar:** If you have not made pre-arrangements to do so, no. Understand that there is a possibility that at a certain point it will be its own source of power.

**Questioner:** Right. Well, I'm wondering, yeah, if we were — you may lose a few of them. Yes, that's fine. I was wondering if we lost a few. I see. Well, we could just have a switch and turn off the power and be able to maybe the effect if it's still around. In other words, yes. 10 feet of drop. Yeah, that may not do it. Is there — last? What year are we talking about? Present. Okay. Where would we find such information? You will find it. All right. Great. Thank you.

## Visiting the Spaceship

**Questioner:** Is it possible for any of us — me — to visit your spaceship and remember if we visit it in your dream state at this time?

**Bashar:** Yes. In physical state at this time? Not really. No, not in physical state. In dream state. Yes, of course. But how about remembering what we saw? Why not? Well, what would I have to do to remember it? Remember? Thank you. Create the memory. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. For sure.

## Outside Entities and Prayer

**Questioner:** Yes. Is that to say that we all have constantly a capability of making a connection with you?

**Bashar:** Oh, sneaky you. Of course. And you do with many, many, many beings.

**Questioner:** Many beings. Okay, that's sort of part two of my question because I believe in the power of — you are simply with the idea you call the power of prayer putting yourself in a communicative state to the totality of your being. Right? And I agree with that. But where do outside entities such as yourself fit in?

**Bashar:** Nothing is outside. Okay, in the total sense we are all one consciousness. But in this way, we fit in in the same manner that you have quote unquote outside entities sitting all around you in your room. We are beings like yourself. Where do we not fit in? I don't know. Where do you think we do not fit in? I think you fit in. Where? In all of my thinking. Where? I can't think of it in a physical state. All right. Then what is the point of your question?

**Questioner:** Curiosity that when I'm thinking and seeking — when you are being the idea of seeking information. Yes. Am I directing it? Sometimes, sometimes not. And if I am directing it, for instance, if I were to beseech you in a question, would you...

**Bashar:** If it does not interfere with your chosen path nor take power away from you, then perhaps there can be communication because we will not interfere in what you chose to experience. And many times, no matter what in this way we may do, even if in your terms we do answer you, if it is something that will interfere, you won't hear it.

**Questioner:** But how would it be an interference if I'm asking?

**Bashar:** Because in this way, understand the idea quote unquote in the terminology we are using interference now is the idea of removing responsibility from yourself. What do you mean? Giving your power away to us to solve something for you. In other words, rather than asking you, I should be asking myself.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Then when we are allowed, we can interject because you will be doing the initial action and allowing us to reflect what we are allowed to reflect without taking your power away.

## Dream State and Choices

**Questioner:** Thank you. Oh, thank you. In Seth books and also in talking with Seth he talks about how we create a make a lot of our choices in the dream — all of them — okay so then when we're awake and going through our daily activities are we acting out what we chose in our dream state?

**Bashar:** Yes, okay. However, you form the template in your non-physical reality and follow it in your physical reality. Okay. Now of course we still can — yes — at any point by rearranging the template. Yes. And that would we would do that to serve a purpose of course also since you are always dreaming you can always do it. Right. That's why I emphasize dreaming in the night state when we're asleep. We can always do that. Why would what would be the point of arranging it ahead of time in the dream state? Ahead of time. Okay. Yeah. There's my time. All right. Well, that is simply your perspective here. It is not ahead of time. So, everything actually is an idea first before it's in physical manifestation. Everything is an idea whether it is in physical manifestation or not.

**Questioner:** Thank you. Yes.

## Negative Polarity and the Orion System

**Questioner:** Oh, me? Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Could you please talk about if there does exist and I felt that it does exist that we're all evolving and that there's beings there to help us all evolve and we're, you know, within each soul, within each individual, there's this need love and to help nurture other souls. Now, in the galaxies or in the solar systems or whatever you want to say, are there souls that are opposed to that? And why? And are there influences right now on Earth concerning that?

**Bashar:** Understand this. You can only be influenced when you create influence for yourself. In this way, you are simply identifying with their energy of separation. That is all.

**Questioner:** Well, I'm not quite saying it because I feel like I'm influenced by that. I felt that there was some point in my past in this life that I had was concerned and was thus influenced. But I'm just curious about the existence of it. Why? What's their purpose? Do they exist? Where are they?

**Bashar:** To explore separation in that manner. Now, understand that your civilization in no uncertain terms can speak firsthand about that kind of energy. Okay? Because you have been it for quite a number of your years. And therefore, you were one of those systems in the past. Okay.

**Questioner:** In a sense, yes. Now, physical systems. You talking about physical systems? There are. Yes. Fourth density is again also in your terms the last density in which you can experience to some degree the polarization effects of positive and negative physicalized manifestation. Fifth, sixth and seventh are simply blendings that have no dichotomy. They are simply beings.

**Questioner:** Okay. So here we're going to get them whether we like — this is just the nature of this particular plane.

**Bashar:** Yes. Polarity. What you see is what you get. Yes. Bashar. Does that mean that our system was once a part of what's going on with the Orion system then? In a sense. Yes. Or we're just evolving out of that polarity. Is that — yes.

**Questioner:** What's the Orion system?

**Bashar:** Negative polarity. It is a generalized term in your society to represent the idea of beings and whole societies that may be expressing negative manifestation and domination and separation and judgment.

**Questioner:** Is that why they're sending us activity — more or less they're trying to get us back?

**Bashar:** Then it is not that they are trying to do anything. They are always going to offer you the opportunity to choose negative manifestation.

**Questioner:** I've also heard that you said or somebody stated that when they bring you — or when they come to us and offer the temptation — that's to consider it as they are offering us a gift of some kind or a message — an opportunity — but the opportunity is only to be of the negative polarity. Is that correct?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** What benefit is there then for me suppose I choose to be positive polarity but I'm still being accosted — would be the way I would put it.

**Bashar:** You cannot be accosted if you are only being offered an opportunity.

**Questioner:** Why is it the view that you are assuming you are being accosted is a negative judgment.

**Bashar:** Okay, that's my viewpoint I'm taking. And then it is a reinforcement of their ability to accost you.

**Questioner:** No, I'm just falling into their trap then in a sense.

**Bashar:** But understand, you can fall right out of it by simply offering them back the opportunity to share your positive manifestation. And then you will be left with positive effect in either event, no matter what they choose. Because if they recognize you are only of a positive manifestation, they will then if they do not wish to share positive manifestation with you, leave. If they do wish to share it, they will become as positive as you and you will still be left with positive effect.

**Questioner:** Oh, you mean it's possible to transform them then?

**Bashar:** They can show if they choose. Of course, why not? You did. [Laughter]

**Questioner:** Thanks for the laugh.

**Bashar:** You love it. I'm sure.

## Hand Position and Energy

**Questioner:** One moment. Yes. I noticed that we hold our hands similar. What does that mean? What does yours mean?

**Bashar:** In this way, we are allowing there to be the completion of an energy circuit between my consciousness and the consciousness of the physical channel.

**Questioner:** Why do I do it?

**Bashar:** You are connecting to your own future self. I am the channel's future self. Okay. My fingers are on the outside. Yours are on the inside. That the middle. All right. Does that have anything to do with anything?

**Bashar:** Your pattern of energy. Okay. Gee, I did something somebody else didn't. I created it all by myself. Thank you. And thank you for the lovely co-creation in the sharing.

## Fifth Density and Oversoul

**Questioner:** Yes, for sure. You have fifth density on your planet, right?

**Bashar:** Not on the planet. I mean in your civilization in our consciousness. Yes. Right. How do you view the fifth density? What is the vibratory — the idea you would call ethereal?

**Questioner:** Ethereal? Yes. Etheric bodies. Yes. Okay. Light bodies. Yes. Although that can occur in fourth density to some degree as well. Okay. Is the oversoul normally in a certain density — a particular density as you understand it?

**Bashar:** Not the idea of the actual foundation definition of an oversoul. It may to some degree hover around the proximity of the seventh and eighth since the idea represents a passage from one octave to another. Oh, I see. That makes sense. Yeah. Thank you.

## Sphinx and Leonardo

**Questioner:** Yes. What was the significance of the sphinx body, the cat body? What does that represent?

**Bashar:** The idea of the integration of the animal consciousness. You follow me? Okay.

**Questioner:** Leonardo painted about three pictures with a finger pointing up. Why? I always felt like he was trying to tell us something. Was he channeling some sort of energy?

**Bashar:** Of course. Was it his higher self or was that a combination of ideas and entities from time to time. His depiction of the destruction or the deluge — was that his impression of the trans? Yes, to some degree. Okay. The idea of what you call Atlantis. Okay. Your biblical flood is the memory of the destruction of Atlantis. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. Don't fight you.

## Earthquake Prediction

**Questioner:** Couple of weeks ago. Yes. How's it look now? Approximately December 12th. Right in this room. You're standing on the crack. Still moving around. The idea as we sense the energy now is that the epicenter will be in the area either you call Imperial Valley or the idea you call your southern border for sure.

**Questioner:** As an earth server, what could somebody do to offset that?

**Bashar:** You can allow yourself to know that you are in this way utilizing and creating and channeling the energy for positive manifestation and allowing it to be valid for whoever has created it to experience it in whatever way they have wherever they are. In other words, who has created the earth tremor?

**Questioner:** You all have. Oh, I see. Oh, and in this way, you will all channel it in whatever way you need to to represent the symbol for yourself.

**Questioner:** Can you tell me some ideas what I need to — you need to nothing? Well, I desire to do some more like what you would call earth serving, you know, planetary manifestations.

**Bashar:** Then talk to it.

**Questioner:** Well, I know I mean besides — Oh, you mean talk to the planet? Yes. On any matter? Yes. So, to who? As an entity, a conscious — I think like in terms of akasha or pale or what?

**Bashar:** You can. What is the optimum do you think? You.

**Questioner:** No, I mean the optimum focus for me to look at when you're saying talk to the planet.

**Bashar:** You. Okay. You are the planet. It is you. Talk to the portion of yourself that is the planet. Oh, okay. You may, if you wish, at this time utilize a symbol it has given you, that of a multifaceted emerald. That will be a symbolic crystal of the transformation from third to fourth density.

**Questioner:** You're saying that the planet has given me first.

**Bashar:** All of you. It is within the submass consciousness. Oh, it is an archetypal symbol that is of the earth consciousness. Something that originated in the logos. Yes. So it would be a logoic archetype. Yes. Great. Now all I can do is find it. It is within you. I know. That's what I mean. It is in your imagination. Can you not picture it? Oh, I had a few pictures when you said that. Yeah, there it is. I have a suggestion on that. Just that one thing you're just talking about. I find that I could actually get a response from planet earth when I — this is just my symbol — when I relate to earth as the mother. Yes, you will find it within you if you don't go looking.

## Personal Health and Direction

**Questioner:** One moment. There are a few more of your minutes remaining. Be brief. You then you then you. Okay. There's quite a bit of discomfort in this form. You are never doing anything wrong. Is there something I'm not doing right?

**Bashar:** No. Use your imagination. Oh well. Okay. I'm doing that. All right. Now, how in your imagination do you see — whatever symbol you create — do you see reflects the idea of your ease of creation rather than the idea of disease?

**Questioner:** Are you asking me? Of course. Who else? No. I thought you were just telling me. I just feel whole. I don't consider — You are whole. Yeah. I don't consider that the form has damage. All right. But there's this stuff that goes on inside of it.

**Bashar:** Then you consider that it has changeability. Yeah. All right. You consider that it has negative changeability sometimes. Yeah. All right. Where would you like to go right now? Are you making this more complex than it has to be? No. No. Where would you like to go right now? I don't know how to call it. What to call it? There. Where is it? On your planet. Where is it? Is it on your planet? Mhm. Where? Where is it? Describe it by the terminology of your planet. What does it look like? quite clear. All right. Holding that image, holding that feeling, where would you like to go on Earth that matches it?

**Questioner:** Well, thank you. Thank you. You have found your doorway. In that energy vortex, in that earth chakra point, you will be situated within the energy of the third eye chakra. Your own life will become crystal clear, clear, clairvoyant, clear seeing. All the manifestations simply clear facets on the multifaceted, multi-dimensional crystal that you are. If you wish, take a trip. It is up to you. It is also within you. You do not have to physically go anywhere. But allow me to suggest our perception of you is that it would be in your terms of benefit. You will also meet some individuals you have met before. They will recognize you. That might be one of the ways they greet you.

## Tesla's Device and Earth Frequency

**Questioner:** An extension of a few of your minutes. Okay. I'll be brief. Thank you. Is a 7.5 Hz vibration of the earth mechanical or electromagnetic?

**Bashar:** It is within the idea you call your electromagnetic field. Okay. Then the device — the free energy device that Tesla had created with one probe into the earth — that was an electrical device then. Yes. Okay. Understand in this way that the idea you call the wavelength was that one crest if radiated in circular form was exactly the same as the diameter of your planet. Thus, in this way you may picture from one point a radiating ripple going out and reaching its highest amplitude being at the equator and then proceeding to the other pole and bouncing back. That frequency has a wave amplitude the same as in that way the diameter of your planet.

**Questioner:** I see. So there's like two cycles around the planet. Is that what it turns out to be?

**Bashar:** Two full cycles around the planet. Yes. So then out and back, right? And then it reinforces itself. Yes. Now understand in this way that what he did not immediately take into account was the sensitivity of all the electromagnetic equipment in the proximity. And this was one of the reasons for what you call the uproar. He blew out many generators around the vicinity.

**Questioner:** How did he do that?

**Bashar:** He was by the initiation of this field. Oh, I see. He actually put some energy into the atmosphere at this wavelength. Yes. And it reinforced and blew out generators. Yes. I see. Is this the device also that he called his wireless transmission device? It is one of the applications. Okay. But it is many times more powerful with a purpose I guess for tapping the earth's energy more than just transmitting energy as in a wireless transmission device.

