---
heading: Part 1
title: "Infinite Action"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1985-10-09
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 40
tags: ['maya', 'babaji', 'himalayas']
---



### Mayan Civilization, Art, and Hieroglyphs

**Questioner:** I went to exhibit today of Mayan civilization and I have a couple of questions about that. Um, first they made a lot of pieces of pottery that had no arms and like pregnant looking people.

The exhibit was done by our 20th century man and they talked about how the poor pitiful deformed beings were. And then they also had a lot of hunchback images in their artwork. Can you tell me if that was the truth that it was physical deformities and they were just copying that, or was there some more significance to these figures being in their art?


**Bashar:** A few of those ideas... very few what you turn to be copies of actual physical beings existent at the time. 

You will find there will be a subtle difference in some of these figures. There will be to some degree more what you will find to be patterns of abstractions molded in or painted upon the surface of these figures. In this way recognize that the usual idea for the construction of these figures was as has like unto what you turn to be a standing, in a sense, a model, a figurine for the purpose of exemplifying in an abstract form a symbolic form. 

The ideas of, in a sense, the deformation of the soul, the spirit, the idea of malady, depression, emotional ideas. These figures were created therefore to act as stand-in models onto which an individual could focus the idea of allowing the belief system to think that the disease of spirit or physical disease would thus be transferred to the figurine. In this way they would be able to form what you in your society term to be a transference of idea of identity, somewhat what you have created in your own society that you call placebo effect but of a different nature. Many of this was ritualized in that way and utilized within what you term to be their medicinal practices. As many of their medicinal practices, while involving some of what you term to be the herbalogy of their local, also much of it was mental ritualized in this way. 

Thus they were able to feel that as they created these figurines they transferred this idea of disease into that figurine and removed it from themselves, embodying in that way however a portion of themselves which they chose to keep around so that they would not feel in this way that they were so much discarding or attempting to get rid of a portion of their personality, but they created a tool outside of themselves which they can look at, reflect upon while integrating the idea it represented without needing to experience the actual physical malady in order to do it. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** I do. Um, on the same thing, the Mayan hieroglyphs up into this point linguistically speaking are the only written form of communication which is quote-unquote not been deciphered by our quote-unquote professionals. Is there a reason for that? Is it just they're looking wrong way at the methodology or...?

**Bashar:** Now understand a few of these ideas have been decoded in your society. Some are somewhat accurate, some are not. But understand in this way the methodology simply is that again like unto what you term to be the majority of the civilization upon your planet you call the American Indian culture, in this way the beings recognize themselves to exist both halfway in physical reality and halfway out. Thus the pictographic representations will be dream representations for the most part. In that way it will be a language of the mind, not of a physicalized formula, not of the ego consciousness, not of the physical perspective, but will be to some degree representations of concepts which you may find more easily interpretable through your own intuitions, dreams, imaginations and sensitivities rather than as you say a cut and dried formulation or breakdown of codification. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. So also it had talked about they were aware of the 13 levels of reality. Does that have anything to do with a couple weeks ago we talked about there are not just four dimensions in our world, there are 11? Is that because they were aware of those those more subtle levels and so they said 13 but they basically could move in and out of the different dimensions?

**Bashar:** Yes, to some degree. Now understand in this way that the majority of those individuals somewhere in this way remaining in your physical dimensionality and thus in this way gave rise to the theory myth that they had simply physiologically died out. But recognized many of the remnants of the idea of the civilization of the population itself have not been found, have not been understood how they could in this way disappear so readily. They transferred themselves to another dimensional reality of experience.

**Questioner:** That's what I thought. And then they said that uh the at one point in time the artwork just really changed and I could see the difference when it was very specific and very clear and the rest it was really very amateur. Was that because the majority of the civilization had already transferred itself to another level?

**Bashar:** Understand in that way you have many forms of this remnant civilizations upon your planet in many different forms. You will find there to be as you say a downgrading of the technology, a downgrading of the art forms after certain points that represent transformational points for the majority of the civilization. Many times the idea or aspect of the civilization you are familiar with is only a castoff skin of the greater nucleus or core of the civilization that actually existed upon your planet. In this way also understand that the methodology of communication in this way will be in your terms difficult to decipher because once again in a similar fashion as to what you understand to be in your society you call Chinese... Japan pictograph right? There will be then even more so in Mayan pictograph whole concepts in each form, not simply a phonetic construction. You follow me? Each image is an entire concept and how they are put together an entire idea of a relationship which cannot really be picked apart and understood. It must be understood in its entire context. You follow me?

**Questioner:** I do. Is my affinity for that culture what I experienced today because I had a lifetime in that period?

**Bashar:** You have had a few. Yes.


### The Himalayas and Babaji

**Questioner:** Could you tell me uh your feelings on the significance of the influence of the Himalayas on earth and its evolution?

**Bashar:** Himalaya, Mongolia, Tibet represents one of the major 3rd eye chakra points of your planet.

it is a regulatory system for the electromagnetic and etheric energies and astral energies which surround and permeate the Earth crystal, in much the same manner that your physical form has what you term to be the same chakra points of regulation, fluctuation, balance of the energy.

So the vortex of that area carrying within it the electromagnetic energy of an entire age, of an entire era in your consciousness upon your planet. 

The idea of coming to terms with the ability to extend your senses beyond your physical form in a direct sensory way. 

The electromagnetism in that area will be in your terms profound in this aspect. And many times when individuals undertake to find themselves physically in that area they will find much affinity in the synchronous harmonious vibrations of the area, unlocking those chakra points in their own physical force and they will be able to feel the acceleration of the vibrations as they course through their own third eye energy vortex as they align themselves with the vortex of the planet. 

**Questioner:** Babaji has been alive for thousands and thousands of years there. He assists prophets in their particular dispensations to people.

**Bashar:** There is some accuracy of his physical longevity.  But most of the impact is psychic since the consciousness is again half in and half out of a physical reality. 

Thus measurement in time in that basis is not literal.

any symbols including people as you say which are immersed in, meshed in a particular vibration, functioning as a gate as it were for that particular vibration in service to allow other individuals their own recognition of their creation of that vibration for themselves, will thus form doorways, harmonic resonance bells in a sense. 

Their consciousness will in many portions of your planet allow individuals to come to terms with their own energy, with their own creations, their own co-creations of that energy.

This is the assistance being given, this is the service being done. In this way recognize that above and beyond all those you would call Masters are the ones who recognize that everyone on your planet is a master and they simply seek to allow all individuals to recognize their own mastery, not to be followed.


### Mayan Technology and Brain Surgery

**Questioner:** What instruments did the Mayans use for their brain surgery?

**Bashar:** Some were copper, some were crystals, particularly in the form of tunings.

There were some very few but some remnant tools used by what you turn to be only the high priests which derived directly and were carried from directly the remnants of Atlantis. 

They were made out of the substance you have rendered into the name orichalcum, which will be a combination what you turn to be silver, copper, gold and mercury to some degree. 

There were some what you call flint instrument, glasslike instrument. In this way the majority of the tuning of what you turn to be the brain area was done by crystal. 

At that time, only in certain portions as yet undiscovered by your civilization, do they still exist? 

There were forms, not in the way you know them, but forms of what you call electrical generator batteries. These were created out of the substances of the area and again to some degree was a remnant of the technology of Atlantis. 

With these and with their own mentality did they perform in this way much of those ideas with particular use pressure and stimulation of the element you call gold for the energy that is contained within it that your civilization has yet to tap.


**Questioner:** Did they actually cut skin and uh skull or did they use...? 

Yes.

Were they concerned with infection or was that not necessary at that time in their relief system?

**Bashar:** They would tap into the auric field of the gold itself then suspend and transfer to those individuals the same immunity that the substance gold has for itself. 

Gold does not change.


### Past Lives (Atlantis), Crystals, and Purpose

**Questioner:** last week you indicated that I was in a sense an earth server and um it occurred to me that I am that by ritual of having made a commitment and been here a long time and I feel that it was for the purpose of seeing the Earth through at least one cycle if not several cycles.

Although I do have an origin elsewhere but it's like everyone does. Yeah, I feel like uh in certain respect I am uh waiting for my space brothers to return to some degree but do not wait. Well, I uh yeah perhaps waiting was not the term that describes what I mean the most. Uh yeah, I think there was a sense of that at one time although at this time I don't have that sense of...

**Bashar:** The more active you are willing to be in whatever idea or role or purpose you have chosen in this way, the more in congruency and concordance and synchronous vibration you will be to the overall idea of the timing involved and thus in this way the faster the acceleration will commence towards the point of integration of several societies upon your planet from elsewhere as you say.

**Questioner:** I feel like uh during the Atlantean period I was instrumental in the technological uh aspects of it.

**Bashar:** Yes, you were involved directly with the vibratory emanations of the crystal structures of the time. Uhhuh. And much in the way of the idea that you call the wrappings of wire around these structures in this way for the gleaning of them of the vibrations and the tuning of the vibrations and the setting up of the crystal temples. 

In this way the idea you will find there thus being that you had arranged in many times what you turn to be crystal or glassware structures containing cores, cylindrical cores of the ideas of copper and many other metals in this way including orichalcum which did give rise to the harmonic vibration resonances which was one of the amplification steps in gleaning the transference of what you turn to be direct sunlight into this energy. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes, amplification processes is what you worked on there. Uhhuh. Feel also that I abused those crystals at that time.

**Bashar:** You were to some degree involved in that idea.

**Questioner:** Yes. I also feel that I knew at the time that uh we were supposed to destroy ourselves for the purpose of um going through that cycle and you know like I had a knowingness that it was appropriate that we do this. And um in a sense...

**Bashar:** Now understand that to some degree in this way some of the intensity of your focus in this life is a direct result of that particular life in the sense of allowing yourself to make sure this time you would progress within the overall timing in a beneficial way and not in your terminology get ahead of yourself.

**Questioner:** Makes sense. Okay, it's been very interesting because this lifetime you know learning about crystals and so on I have... I have not found them you know of any particular use for myself.

**Bashar:** You will.

**Questioner:** And I just realized that this is part of the reason I didn't really have not been able to perceive their power.

**Bashar:** All right. In this as you say lifetime you will find that this interest will extend itself into a different type of crystalline structure. You will find that what will become of importance to you will be the substances on your planet that are just beginning to be created and will continue to be created that will be metallic crystalline structures, a combination of both. These will render unto your civilization properties of energy storage and reclamation that will be many orders of magnitude beyond which you are now familiar with.

**Questioner:** Are these uh semiconductor materials? I mean would semiconductors fall into that category of that kind of material?

**Bashar:** On one level yes. Okay.

**Questioner:** Um now the next question that I would have is that my main pursuits right now are in the areas of film writing and directing. Nice. Although I have this technological thing going on kind of in the background of my my universe. Would you comment on simply that?

**Bashar:** Trust that you have created all the appropriate ways to make the connections you will need later in life. It may not seem to be connected right now.



## Lisa’s Channeling Experience and Connections

**Questioner (Lisa):** I was very restless and I couldn't figure out what it was. On my dream an extraterrestrial kept talking talking to me. 

I was in a sauna and I was my physical body was very relaxed and I felt my consciousness shift and I was it was very foggy and someone in my head said um "It's Lisa, it's time. Do you want to do this?" 

I heard myself say "Yes, very much." 

They said "Well then drop the fear. You know you're supposed to do this. If you really want it just drop the fear." 

Basically they went on along those lines and I got the idea that I was supposed to go home and meditate for about 5 minutes because it would only take that short amount of time to get the point across.

I went home and I sat down and immediately upon sitting down I was in an altered state which I've never experienced before in this life and the first thing that came through was um you know you're supposed to channel.

I kept just kept hearing that word "channel, channel." 

So finally I just said well who is this who is talking to me?

The voice said "This is Bashar" and I said "I know you're not Bashar, don't do that to me."

The voice said "Well if you thought I was Bashar wouldn't you be a little more relaxed?"

I said "Yes but I know you're not Bashar."

he said "Well we are similar." 


**Bashar:** You opened a doorway to your past and future. How do you feel?

**Questioner (Lisa):** I feel very good. I feel uh what you're saying is is true.

**Bashar:** Do you feel there were any besides in this way the vibration you assumed to be my own, do you feel there were any other vibrations that may have been in your terminology hanging around the periphery?

**Questioner (Lisa):** Yes.

**Bashar:** Did any of them feel in any way shape or form like what you would term to be of the American Indian culture?

**Questioner (Lisa):** Wow. I had a dream about a week ago that my husband and I were in the desert and he closed his eyes.

When he opened his eyes he told me that he had seen himself as an American Indian.

immediately upon him seeing that in the dream I saw him melt away and I saw an old American Indian sitting there.


**Bashar:** What you were doing in your sauna was recreating the exact reason and purpose for which they had created what you turn to be the sweat lodge.

you have been through that experience many times and you have contacted yourself and others many times in many lives in that way.

Now you are doing it again. You are opening those doorways again. 

You are connecting to many different forms of energy because now you will find yourself being the nexus point for all of those ideas so that you in concordance and co-creation with all those other consciousnesses will be able to channel all the ideas through into this life as a service both and to act them out for yourself in the endeavors you wish to create in terms of a network of energy upon this planet.

**Bashar:** You are once again that in your vernacular if I may make colloquial that little princess that you were. 

you had connections symbolical both to what you turn to be animals that fly, the bird, and to the deer. 

In that life you will find that in this life you will from this point forward also be able to continue your emotional communication with them and you will find great alignment and balancing in the presence of all animals or you may use that with all animals but your particular connections in that life were with the creatures of the air and the deer. 

**Bashar:** you have American Indian connections, strong connections in several different areas of external consciousness. 

You are connected to:
- the China energy
- the Pleiades
- positiveness in the Orion systems

These were now... will do our suggestion for you something that will in your particular instance aid you in your focusing will be the creation of a tool which you may make from crystal, can be quartz clear or quartz amethyst, three sided pyramid of equilateral triangles. 

Connect into the vibration and know that within you it will resonate as a doorway into those triary extraterrestrial consciousnesses and the base triangle will forward the representative symbol of the past Indian life, the present life and your future self.

That will form the basis of a foundation that will allow you to channel this energy from the other three sources in strength and balance into this life.


**Questioner (Lisa):** Saturday night um my friends and I we had planned where they were going to do a regression for me, one of the few I've had recently, and since this happened they asked me if it would be all right if if um if I ask the entity to come through the first time Saturday night when I'm by...


**Bashar:** you will know how to balance yourself and how much to take and so will they. Yes. Allow yourself to become used to being immersed in the feeling again and in this way you can utilize the symbology of your sauna in such a way to know that when you make those shifts you are existent in that moment in another type of dimensional reality to such an extent that you will be in a sense giving yourself the feeling of breathing a different atmosphere in the same manner as you do in your sauna. 

In this way allow yourself to acclimate a bit at a time in whatever way is comfortable at whatever rate is comfortable for what you are doing and how you shall do it will always be in perfect synchronous harmony with the timing of the mass consciousness of the planet for you to perform the service you have chosen to be here for.

**Questioner (Lisa):** Will my consciousness be receded within me or will it be um out of my body?

**Bashar:** You have the option. You will find that for some experiences you will want to simply defocus and remain, for others you may want to travel. It will be up to you.

**Questioner (Lisa):** One other thing concerning this um the entity that will be coming through or entities guys, is it will it be uh the Indian and the extraterrestrial or one or the other or...?

**Bashar:** Okay. From this point forward your scenario is your own. There is no prediction upon this idea. You are a conglomeration of your own timing, your own crossroads. You have your own degree of randomness within it. It will be up to you according to your feelings of the moment when you create that moment you will know.

**Questioner (Lisa):** So I take it to mean that the Indian channel is my past self and the extraterrestrial my future?

**Bashar:** So to some degree. You will experience again much of this energy in many different ways. Allow yourself though you may require it at first for your own lack of confusion but allow yourself bit by bit to also lose the need for what you term to be labels. You will find that at one point they will begin to blend and it will not matter who they are. 

**Bashar:** It will only be the action to which you put your new understanding of yourself that will matter.

