---
heading: Part 4 of Orion and the Black League
title: "Personal Connection and Self-Worth"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1984-06-25
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 25
tags: ['']
---


**Question:** What would be the best way for—what's the way for me to get in touch with—

**Bashar**: You are the way for yourself. You are the event of your life.

**Response:** but I see myself as an event.

**Bashar**: Because you do not think you are worth attending.

**Response:** I just never thought of it.

Why do you not think of yourself as a big party to which everyone would want to come because they will have so much fun? What an event he is.

Now realize that it will not really matter so much in that way the idea of everyone attending. 

But it will matter if you wish to attend in that way. And therefore automatically ALL THAT IS will attend by understanding that you are already at the event—one unfoldment, one idea within the overall event of ALL THAT IS. And as such, in ALL THAT IS, I'll say, serving itself by creating the very unique you to experience itself in that way, then you may simply allow yourself to reciprocate the invitation by inviting ALL THAT IS to attend the very unique you and therefore support—I would say reinforce—the idea initially created by ALL THAT IS in creating you.

**Response:** You know, you have to choose to follow.

**Bashar**: Why do you assume it is so difficult to understand when you already do understand it?

**Response:** So dumb because everybody seems to know when I'm sitting here I ask all these questions.

**Bashar**: you do understand. Simply you are telling yourself that you don't.

There is simply a portion of the idea that you are creating which creates the reality that you do not understand because again you're assuming that to understand will lead you to ideas that you feel you cannot control. 

It is only another idea and you are allowing yourself to vibrate within the idea of the fear of experiencing those ideas that you feel you cannot control.

**Response:** That's valid.

**Bashar**: Therefore, understand, however, that all of this fear, all of this seeming out-of-ness, only, only, only finds its origin point within that one idea that you choose to believe: you do not understand. As soon as you understand that you do understand, that entire aspect will be reintegrated within you and the effect will disappear.

**Response:** How do you understand?

**Bashar**:  By simply allowing yourself to know that you do understand.

**Response:** So fake it till I make it.

**Bashar**:  your imagination will be expressed to you as yes, playing, pretending. 

Understand that the more in that way you simply allow yourself to know that your pretending does represent a real reality within you, the more real that reality will become as your imagination reality, dream reality, and physical reality are all real. 

Simply different aspects of the same reality of ALL THAT IS.

**Response:** Yes. Act as if.

**Bashar**: Well, the thing is that we wouldn't be here hearing this right now as our own reflection. 

**Response:** I was thinking do that again. You wouldn't be here tonight unless you understood already what was going to be said and you put yourself here for that purpose. Participating in this with the song, not necessarily to hear it because you already know it. You're hearing what you already know. Therefore, understand that the purpose that you are serving for yourself at this time is simply the placing of yourself among this idea of consciousness which you do already understand for the express purpose of allowing yourself to be reminded that you do in fact already understand.

**Response:** Now, are you saying that you know it?

Yes. Beyond a shadow of a doubt. Otherwise, again, you would not be here. You would not vibrate at the level of understanding that we are experiencing of you.

**Response:** He'd be somewhere in the San Diego freeway for sure.


## Creating Reality

**Question:** I want to create a reality where there is no hunger. 

**Bashar**:  you are in accord with the overall mass consciousness as well.


I realize I'm also in accord with the purpose that I've chosen for this life. All right. And use your imagination. So all I—the timing is right to amass those beings, entities, people, kingdoms, life forms around me that want to be in this new reality that I am creating. And all we simply have to do is talk it over, meditate it over and get a picture of what we want. And that picture, that visualization will then all on its own effortlessly create it.

Now realize that you do not even need in that way, I'll say, for yourself to talk it over, think it over, picture it out in that way. If you already know that you are that reality, all those manifestations will unfold automatically and all the talking will take place quite automatically by what will turn to be a massive event of coincidence.

**Response:** We just be moving into that reality. Wow. Is that correct? Just being that reality?

Yes. Allow the future to be now.

**Response:** Well, doesn't that reality exist now?

That is what we just said.

**Response:** So, when we move into that reality, still there may be a reality where hunger exists, but we just won't be in that.

Perhaps you'll perceive. Oh, realize again that within the overall idea of that reality, it will not be perceived in such a total frame of reference that you may not even make the comparison between your now present reality which has no hunger and any other reality which you think may have.

**Response:** I guess I was thinking that for every reality there exists some kind of opposite reality in a sense.

But again, understand that within the idea of the integration of that polar opposites, understand that within the physical dimensionality alone do you experience the separation of those ideas which are blended perfectly within all the other levels of your own consciousness and not seen as dichotomies or polarizations.

**Response:** But why do we have to try so much to believe?

You do not have to try to believe. Again, simply a matter of knowing.

**Response:** How do we tell ourselves that? Go ahead. Say, I already know that I believe. Now, do you believe yourself?

**Response:** Yes.

Are you sure?

**Response:** Yes.

All right. Now, are you really sure?

**Response:** Yes.

Why?

**Response:** Because I am.

Thank you. Because exactly that. You are here. You are the creator. You are infinite. You are and always have been and always will be ALL THAT IS. Therefore, yes, you are. And you can always know that that is your indestructible core in that way. And that always, always, always, you may simply always know yourself as ALL THAT IS. And in so knowing yourself, provide quite automatically all the service to ALL THAT IS that will support and continue, I'll say, reinforce all the manifestations within your physical life that will always represent that support of ALL THAT IS and in that way you will be supporting yourself.

## On Cruelty and Responsibility

**Question:** What is the difference between being unaware—I mean refusing to look at something that—let's see, I'll put it right—being unaware of things that are going on around you and creating a different future? For example, we were talking about cruelty to animals and you were saying that cruelty we won't perceive the cruelty to animals if we create—

Again, understand what you'll be manifesting with, I'll say, those individuals who partake of that, I'll say, projection as you term cruelty to animal in that way. Simply understand that as you vibrate within your own understanding of the reality you wish to perceive, there are facets of every individual which exist in every vibratory level of existence, every reality of existence, and you will be perceiving those facets of those individuals who will reflect, I'll say, the existence of your vibration in that way. They will to you seem to have simply changed, but you will be dealing really with different facets of those individuals, I'll say, representative of that level of vibration.

**Response:** I understand that and yet I can't help but maybe it's I'm perceiving an aspect of myself, but I can't help thinking that somewhere those animals are suffering still.

All right then, in that reality of your own choosing, they always will be because they always will be anyway. Everything is always now. Understand again simply that by worrying about that idea, you yourself are feeding energy to that idea.

**Response:** Okay.

But again, understand one very important thing in all of this total idea. All that is always is ALL THAT IS. Stop attempting to take responsibility for those ideas. You are always creating comfort in the doing so in that way and therefore understand that the idea of so—what you are always understand that as you allow yourself to forge exactly that reality for yourself, to the idea of extension of yourself to the idea of the reality of ALL THAT IS of yourself and ALL THAT IS of yourself. Therefore, as service to ALL THAT IS, then you can really simply know—no, no, no, no, no, without a shadow of a doubt—that that in your terms, in your reality, in all the reality that you allow yourself to comprehend or perceive or, I'll say, in that way view, there is in that way no manifestation of that reality.

**Question:** To a certain degree, is the Orion going to shift and go into parallel universes and the same thing?

Yes. But again their shifting in that way is in accord with the vibratory levels that they allow themselves to experience. Now that way, understand that many individuals, I'll say, upon your own planet have shifted much in that way and they have accorded themselves the vibratory existence of other civilizations, other levels of consciousness in that way which still allow them to enact out to some degree that idea but in a different form which will allow them more opportunity to change again that idea if they so choose.

**Response:** Okay.

**Question:** So I didn't understand that but there's some channels going into or—

Realize that in this way your terminology as expressed is not clear to us. What do you mean by channels going in?

**Response:** Well, their mass consciousness of the people in the underground are creating mirrors for themselves to see themselves evolving into ALL THAT IS in service of all.

Yes. And the other guys are creating channels or existences of future selves that are creating service—

Well, with regard to Orion, now that's only a facet of themselves too. So yes, we can just simply grant life to their wholeness.

Yes. And again as you do so in that way you will be removed. But you will not in that way experience that effect.

**Response:** Yeah. Again by sharing your compassion, by being, by knowing that you are ALL THAT IS and expressing the compassion that you know exists within ALL THAT IS to have created ALL THAT IS.

## Higher Dimensions

**Question:** Can you explain the difference in ideas or vibrations at the fifth and the sixth and seventh level?

Only briefly at this time. Understand that there will be again upon those levels more and more simply of the idea of that integration into ALL THAT IS and it will be expressed in a number of ways which you say at this time really have no translatable idea in your language.

**Response:** Didn't follow me?

That's a powerful language. Realize that at this time it is the only language you are perceiving from what you experience as the child.

**Question:** Can you speak other languages?

In that sense, yes, but realize I am not really speaking your language. Realize there is no need in that way for me to learn your language. There is in that way telepathic concepts being transmitted and the channel acting as a translation device in that way allowing there to be automatic response within what we call the electrical stimulation of the brain so that there will be, I'll say, a concurrence within ideas that are understood in that way which will form in your understanding the symbols necessary for you to say receive the telepathic communication.

**Response:** Daryl, Daryl speak—

Yes, that is why also then you find that the same, I'll say, understanding or entity or identity or consciousness in that way may channel through many different individuals though their languages be different.

**Question:** Do you channel through people in different countries?

Yes. Sure.

## Brain and Consciousness

**Question:** How could we use the brain? Can you explain a little bit the functioning of the brain to be able to better memorize?

There is no need to better memorize, but understand simply that what you experience again as your physical brain is simply the idea in physical reality of the projection of your consciousness into that reality and thus forming a symbol of an idea with regard to what has been created as the physical energies that represent the structure of that reality that is your electromagnetic energies, your, I'll say, energy vibratory patterns which will form for you a symbolized construct which will represent the idea of the consciousness that is projecting into the physical dimension in the first place. Therefore, understand however that there will be this symbol in the form of the interaction of all this energy that will be projected in your physical reality as what you call mind.

You follow me? If you understand simply therefore that what you call mind is simply the physical translation of the idea of the consciousness which is projecting into the physical dimension, you will understand that there is no separation in that way really between what you turn to be mind and the consciousness itself. And that you can understand there really is no separation between all the different levels of consciousness which represent what you are except that there is the idea of the separation created to perceive in a very limited viewpoint for its own purposes yourself as a limited entity.

**Question:** Not at this time. There is no need in that way to ponder analytically that idea to that extent beyond what you already understand.

## Orion Clarification

**Question:** Can you clarify something for me because people here are referring to being on Orion and that's not my understanding.

Understand that in that way your terminology of an entire area in that way of what you turn to be space is represented by many, many, many different civilizations which express the idea simply that that energy stems, I'll say, for the most part from the direction of what you turn to be the constellation of Orion in your own cosmology in your sky.

**Question:** So, but so you're talking about a specific planet many there as opposed like when we talk to Essani there's a planet there and they're talking about this negative energy force Orion is your own terminology for the overall idea, right, which is represented by, I'll say, a few of civilizations.

So that negative energy is coming from a large area in any sense.

**Question:** So Bashar, you know before we said that Bashar and well Essani was if you look in the direction of Orion it's general it would be beyond that. Is that—is it not in that way beyond that in that sense?

Understanding as you will that what you understand to be the constellation you express as Orion will be formed of many stellar groups which are at varying distances to each other. Only from your own perspective do they seem to be next to each other in that way. Understand that what you understand to be the idea of our civilization in Essani in that way will represent ourselves in that direction approximately 500 light years in that way. Realize that many of the constellational formations within what you found to be the overall constellation of Orion are at much greater distances.

**Response:** Oh, in that way we symbolize the idea of acting in that way as the veil between you and them.

**Question:** Okay. So, but you that's just an arbitrary position in space for you or is that really where—is in your terms of understanding the idea of construct of space in that way you may, I'll say, allocate at this time within your consciousness that to be a location.

**Response:** Okay. Got it.

**Question:** But do you—does that exist in our terms of time and space?

Not really in that sense. Understand again that as you perceive us to be, I'll say, in your terms advanced in that way, we will be placed in that way along the time scale in that advancement. Understand that in that way we operate in your terminology to some degree from the fourth level density. That is what you would turn to be in a sense astral.

## Brain Stimulation and the Mayans

**Question:** Do you see the brain turn on top of rubber back as a means to get it tap into a higher frequency?

At this time, you will have to explain your perception of that idea to some degree.

**Response:** Well, it's a machine that kind of stimulates certain frequencies of the brain. I think that could be possible.

All right. Now, understand this will be, I'll say, a beginning of a primary function of understanding the integration of what is going to be the left and right hemispheres. It will be found that it operates as a whole identity when you can perceive yourself in that way. Understand that to some degree this will be the beginning of the understanding that all manifestations of your reality in that way will be channeled through your brain so as to manifest into physical dimensionality and in that way it will be understood that to some degree the unlocking of the idea by the stimulation of those patterns, by the rearranging of those patterns in that way will to some degree also allow for the stimulation and unlocking of the reality as a whole as was experienced by your understanding of the civilization you call Mayans many years in your past.

Understand that they have the ability in that way to alter those brain wave patterns and so remove themselves to another level of reality altogether. That is why to your understanding of the idea of what those individuals are that you express to be in your terms, I'll say, sociologists, archaeologists in that way, they will, I'll say, be some confusion about the idea of exactly why that civilization seem to end so abruptly.

## Past Life Question

**Question:** I have a couple of friends who call me Peter. Does this have to do with a past life connection?

At this time, there will be no need for that answer. Again, understand that you may explore yourself with regard to the idea that have asked the question. There is an answer within you already. And you may understand that whatever identification that you form with that idea will simply represent that portion of your own unfoldment that you are willing to look at at this time. Allow yourself to explore. We will not intrude upon your exploration at this time.

Realize that many times when individuals, though we may be able to perceive because of your openness and your willingness, that idea in a total sense, understand that your exploration at this time would be done a disservice in that way to formulate a specific label for you to focus on in that way. Thus removing yourself from the overall idea that you're exploring rather than creating the immediate judgment of a specific level of focus of the idea by labeling it.


## Taking It All Seriously

**Response:** You know when we're talking here it's just very exciting but at the same time sometimes I just think well so what—we're already—it seems like we're taking it all very seriously.

All right. Very good. Yes. Understand that your overall idea in that way and as we have said many times is simply that as you understand yourself more and more to be equal to the idea of ALL THAT IS, then you will understand yourselves as teachers and learners in the same way we understand ourselves as teachers and learners, and we can share in that way. And understand therefore you will not have to regard it in that way as teachers in that way anymore. And understand therefore we will, as we have expressed to you before, not need this job.

**Response:** Right.

**Question:** Would you begin to allow yourself to know live? Do you have a job on some of those planets around? Doing the similar thing that you're doing here with the underground at this time.

The field would not allow that type of manifestation.

**Response:** Well, the scientist said that we're vibrating at their level. Could you know—could we go because our vibrations go there and like they're doing—

Again, that has been suggested and I will say again one more time. Understand that you have understood the idea as simply the idea. As you manifest yourself as the understanding of ALL THAT IS, you may simply send the same degree of compassion to that understanding and allow it to shift if it chooses to by forming yourself on a level of vibration which they will then perceive as having a facet in themselves which they have buried within their own consciousness.

**Response:** So like send them the vibration that they don't have to do it the way they're doing it.

Yes. But not forcibly. Again, you don't even have to really think about sending it. If you are already understanding yourself as the unfoldment of service to the support of the idea of ALL THAT IS, you will be sending that idea.

**Response:** Well, I have been put consciously doing things when I go out at night when I'm in disparity and get ran over by people. I tried—I don't try, I do—I maybe they're on alcohol or something but—

What you are expressing will be all right. You will be forming pictures and images in your mind which will support again the idea that they are simply experiencing a different reality. You will not be judging.

**Response:** Well, I was what I was doing like what the lady said back here last week that she does she did on the freeway with these people—showed them a different way to drive your car. In truck life, showed her a different way to run me over and I said just go around me—very good—and I felt good because usually I would be "you son of a [\h__\h]" and I just didn't and it felt better than when I attacked.

Very good. That was something that I learned then. Understand very much that when we say you understand, you do understand. That is all there is to understand. Thank you very much.

## Future Self Channeling

**Question:** Regarding some of us here in communication with our future selves—in terms of channeling, do you know—could you communicate more to me regarding my future self in regards to actual channeling? Possibly similar to what Daryl is doing with you.

You might simply understand at this time, but again, your timing is your own and perfect. Understand that you will unfold again the more you allow yourself to unfold in a natural state. Again, without the idea of leading in that way to impress upon anyone the idea of the involvement itself, then you will allow yourself to perceive the direction of that unfoldment very clearly.

You follow me?

**Response:** Yes. Thank you.

**Response:** The more so the more the deeper we put our roots in ourselves, the clearer—

In a sense, simply the more you understand the idea of yourself as ALL THAT IS, the more you will recognize that ALL THAT IS is exactly what you are and in that way you will be supporting the overall idea of ALL THAT IS in that way and as such then you will be doing service to ALL THAT IS and therefore reinforcing yourself as a portion of the idea. You will just be guided. You will guide yourself.

**Response:** Yes.

**Response:** You know, sometimes the show that you say things like that you're equal to ALL THAT IS—it could be my mind limiting me but I can't seem to picture my—doesn't matter if you picture all that that is.

All right. Again understand this is where the idea of knowing comes in. What you're told to be trust, what your terminology has expressed as faith, is very rarely used in that way. Understand that what we turn to be faith is simply knowing whether or not the reality that you have chosen allows you to directly experience consciously your connection to ALL THAT IS that you know you are. And therefore the effect of knowing can manifest within your life and reinforce the idea that you still know that you are ALL THAT IS. Because again you will understand that ALL THAT IS is the overall understanding of all the mass collection of simultaneous existence that within your physical reality is expressed as a massive event of coincidence.

**Response:** So then the view I give myself about ALL THAT IS is a anything that just is, okay, in their entirety of which you are also a part in that way.

But simply again understand that it does not matter if you form what you turn to be an accurate picture. There is no accurate picture. There is no one picture. There is no one way. Simply understand that you can know. No, no, no. You can have the feeling that you know that that idea is expressed as ALL THAT IS. And in that way you can simply watch as the manifestation of that effect unfolds in your life as what you turn to be coincidence of events which support the unfoldment of your life in a positive way as you are doing service to the support of the idea of ALL THAT IS.

## Coincidence and Openness

**Response:** Well, two coincidences happened this week. One was I think about animals and that they, you know, kind of like stay away from you if they're wild. And one of those pigeons came up to me this week and it and a cat came into my house the other day which—

Very good. Understand I use that as a coincidence. All right, but understand that that idea that you call coincidence is simply that—coincident—and is representative of the simultaneous action of ALL THAT IS in that way and that you have allowed yourself to perceive that interaction in that way whereas before you had not. Understand that you are blending the idea that all of these occurrences of ALL THAT IS are happening simultaneously and that many of them can overlap into your life. In that way, you're opening your doors. Thank you to the allowance, allowance, allowance of those realities to also be your reality.

**Response:** Well, if you put up no resistance to anything, then you can experience everything.

There's not the idea of resistance. It is the idea of judgment. Understand that your idea in that way of resistance to the negative effect will be automatic if you remove the judgment. You will simply place yourself in an attitude, in a reality in that way, in a vibratory state which will no longer perceive the negative effect.

**Response:** Well, yes. I think yes, no judgment.

## Personal Stories

**Response:** One moment.

**Response:** Um I had a noise that was my car that was really bothering me. Turned out to be no big deal, but I was really concerned and I took it to the shop and I was everywhere and I took it to the shop and I was like really upset because I didn't know what it was. And before the guy to look at it, I was like pacing back and forth and thinking all kinds of horrible thoughts. And at the height of my upsetness, this dog came along and went to swag and peed on my car. And I guess the humor in the situation kind of broken.

Very good. Then understand that much of the idea that you will be expressing in the unfoldment of yourself, if you allow yourself to perceive it in that way, will formulate again the connection as you have understood within what you learn to be the American Indian aspect of your understanding of the dream and imagination reality in connection with animals as guides in that way. And you experience yourself in that way as unfoldment with that idea.

**Response:** So, it was sort of I didn't know myself that the animal came to be my—wasn't guys.

**Response:** Um, there's still something that I have that I need to clarify somehow. It has to do with the experience or the negative Orion.

In that, I see that merely as another facet or an idea or something that's a part of ALL THAT IS. We have not said anything different.

**Response:** Is there something about it somehow?

It is simply a matter of choice. All right, let us be direct. What reality do you wish to experience? The idea of domination or the idea of positive unfoldment?

**Response:** Of course.

All right, that is all you need to know. They have their reality and they have chosen that idea. You have your reality and you have chosen your idea. It is as simple as that.

**Response:** I see it as like whatever reality you choose, you can get help from any idea, if any civilization can serve to magnify that.

Yes. Yes. Again, that is another way of looking at the idea that any event in your life is never an interruption of the overall positive effect of the unfoldment of yourself. Very good.

**Response:** Sure. I find a symbolic image or gesture during the day, whether it be a book or something that helps me keep on centered. I was wondering—

You will always be sending to yourself all those signposts necessary for the continuing unfoldment of yourself. That is why we say you have every reason in the world to trust yourself since you send yourself all these reinforcements all the time anyway. You always maintain yourself upon that path of unfoldment. That is why you don't have to worry about a thing.

**Response:** Well, sometimes when I work, if I don't stop and think that these are people and that they're okay, I start judging them and start feeling negative.

But do not judge yourself in the judging as well. Allow yourself to say, "Oh, I judge. All right, no big deal. I understand. I do not have to do that. If I don't want to, I understand that if I have chosen to do it, I have done it. But no big deal." That way, your judgment will not carry the weight, the reinforcement of the negative effect. Again, do not judge that you have judged. That is the experience that you manifest as the idea of guilt, which is again the artificial screen and not the allowance of the emotion itself. Simply allow yourself to relax into yourself.

## Closing

I will say simply once again that at this time you may understand that there will be much in the way of the unfoldment of this idea of the connection expressed to you at this time upon your planet. But also for realize that you may derive in that way for yourselves much of your own understanding of your own service to ALL THAT IS by simply allowing yourself to sense your own paths, your own understanding of those ideas of perceptions of realities that you have formed for yourself. And understand that as you view those ideas, you may simply take them all in within the ecstatic view that you know you have of yourself—that you must have of yourself to have allowed yourself to be ALL THAT IS and create the identity that you know yourself to be. Now that is love.

Therefore again understand that as you experience the idea of this love from us, of the idea of the love from all the levels of consciousness which in that way are in communication with you, you can as you have said understand that you are already within that idea of choice in having created that love which is being reflected back to you by us.

Therefore, we will thank you very much for allowing us to share our reality with you and your reality with us. In that way, we will say good night.

**Response:** Good night.

---

## Post-Session Discussion

**Response:** Acceleration. You may view it that way if you wish. It will then have some validity in the mass consciousness. Then you will be creating that mass consciousness for yourself. Recognizing that you have created the reality in which 70 years ago, your entire mass consciousness accelerated within its understanding of the integration of itself. Then you will be one step, as you say, closer to the idea of experiencing that reality.

You follow me?

**Response:** Yeah, sort of.

I didn't get to answer your question. That's when I hung up on—hung up. Yeah, it sort of hung—how high? A little bit. All right. Because I can't remember what you asked me now, but it was—would it make me feel better or something?

Right. Would it feel like in that sense it made you identify with the idea that that reality for you on a mass conscious level is becoming, I'll say, quote unquote, more real.

**Response:** Yes, it is. Thank you. Thank you for letting me ask the question.

Thank you for having the knowledge that you have your own answer already.

**Response:** Okay. You're welcome. Thank you.

**Question:** Yeah, you know, when we talk about the mass consciousness, I start—it starts seeming a little funny when you're thinking about all the different probabilities and possibilities and parallel universes and whatnot to really pinpoint—are we really talking about something when we talk about the mass consciousness? Are we just talking about an idea? My idea of the mass consciousness is different than somebody else's idea.

Yes, in a sense. But understand again that even if you are discussing different perspectives of the idea of mass consciousness, all of those different ideas and perspectives still makes up the idea of a mass consciousness.

**Response:** Yeah. I just have trouble seeing a like a humble genus hole in it.

Perhaps there is no need for you to see it that way.

**Response:** Yeah. Yeah. I guess but then when we were talking about the thing of having the idea of separation from mass consciousness.

Right. Well, I like that idea, you know, of not considering oneself separate. But, yes, sometimes I do, you know—you must be both automatically. Understand if you are not automatically both, you would not be the mass consciousness and you would not be your own identity.

**Response:** Right. No, but I'm saying that sometimes I tend to identify more strongly with a mass consciousness that's not either here either here.

Yeah. In in terms—yeah, sometimes you will form that identification. Yes. Right.

**Response:** So—

Yes.

**Response:** Well, all right. Well, it's like I really, you know—Oh, that was very pretty song. Thank you. I do better. No, I guess I'm just trying to I try to pinpoint or not pinpoint exactly, but you know, like what are we talking about when we talk about I mean all these discussions that we have.

Would you like to meditate for a while?

**Response:** I meditate all the time.

Oh, really? Understand you are in that way also meditating right now.

**Response:** Yes, I know. Thank you.

Oh, all right. Go on to another question. Are you sure?

**Response:** No.

Do you want to say anything about it?

**Response:** Well, thank you.

Oh, you just want me to keep talking? It is up to you. Do you wish to keep talking?

**Response:** Sure. I'll talk more than anybody else.

Why?

**Response:** Because I like you.

Why?

**Response:** Well, to remind yourself of what you know.

Yeah, that's a good way to put it.

**Response:** Do you need much reminding?

Oh, well, I actually have the idea of a creative idea of not knowing everything about Earth consciousness. Therefore, that's why I'm asking questions.

**Response:** So, that's why—are you finding that when you ask your questions in that way, that your answers are coming up for you.

Oh, yes.

**Response:** Why are you question?

**Question:** I have a question about gravity. Yes.

**Response:** Actually, I don't recall making some—gravity. You would not recall it consciously.

No. Understand that the projection of your consciousness, your whole soul self consciousness into the idea of this here and now physical universe as you understand it as one dimension of the structure of ALL THAT IS, is what you tell to be a very basic foundation agreement and you will be far removed in that sense from that awareness consciously of that agreement as it forms the basis of the foundation of the perspective of your entire consciousness.

**Response:** Okay. Well, how do you solve this? Started—there is no beginning. It is only again one idea and it is being experienced by this particular facet of your consciousness.

**Response:** So with the inception of—inception in a sense, but understand again that that sense can only be within the idea that there is also the creation of time. There is no beginning. The idea of gravity always has been, has always been contained within ALL THAT IS since it is now.

**Response:** And so why do we go wrong?

It is one idea. Why not understand? It will give you another opportunity to look at yourself from another viewpoint. Understand also that there will be within your mass consciousness still opportunities for you to understand in your terminology ways to work with that idea.

You follow me? It will also lead to the particular perspective that you will allow yourself to have of what you turn to space travel since you have chosen to experience physical space travel.

You follow me?

**Response:** Do you wish to float?

Yes. Go ahead. Understand that gravity like any idea is simply the idea of the recognition of a total vibration—a vibrational pattern of energy in that sense. And by identifying in that way with that vibration, by equalizing that vibration, you can in that sense also neutralize the effect of that vibration upon your reality.

**Response:** Oh, good. Good point. Now, doesn't that apply to everything?

Yes. If you can completely understand a situation and the fullness of it, yes. Then that means that we can well not have it. Yes.

**Question:** Is it on that idea? Question. We've been trying to find universal connectivity.

Again as we have just said, the main basic idea is that everything is vibrational. You will understand simply that it will be in that way that it is vibrational within the same field. Simply that the distortions or differences will be recognized as separate. You're now beginning to in that way recognize them as the same. When you allow it to be completely homogeneous in that sense, you will find your unification.

Follow me?

**Response:** I can see electromagnetic energy as being vibrational because it is—can't see—well, I don't see a relationship at all.

It is simply a vibrational pattern of a different dimension or sort. That is all. In a sense, when you allow yourself to conceive of the idea of the idea of the something else being the same as everything, then you will understand how they are the same vibration of different frequencies, different degrees. When you understand the primal, I'll say, primal vibration of ALL THAT IS in that way, you won't recognize any manifestation in that sense as simply another alteration of the primal vibration. Simply you're not willing at this time to understand how multi-dimensional those vibrations are. When you understand the multi-dimensional connection of your own consciousness, you will begin to recognize the multi-dimensionality of the vibration you call gravity. And then you will be able to look in all the different places that it has extended itself to and recognize how it is connected in that way. Through doorways, you are not simply allowing to be visible at this time by not recognizing the multi-dimensional reality of your own consciousness as a whole yet.

**Response:** So there's no way that if they work within the matter, energy, space and time universe could come up with unification in a sense.

In a sense, understand they are in that way coming up as you say with the idea of unification. But realize they are not coming up with it in that sense in the symbolic matter energy universe. They are then translating what they have come up with into symbolic matter energy mathematics. But it is their own perception which leads them to create the symbols to represent it.

**Question:** Something always since that is, I'll say, something which has a lot of energy behind it.

Thank you.

**Question:** Is the idea that you need something keep you from doing it vibration in sense?

Yeah. You understand?

**Response:** I think so. Yeah. I'm beginning to get that idea. Certain things, if I think I need them a lot, it makes it harder to get them. If I don't go about my own business and feel good about myself—

I think you have—realize that when you recognize that you're already connected, you do not need it. You know you have it. You do not pay attention to that which you already own. The word need implies. Yes. And if you believe it is scarce, then it will remain scarce because that is your belief. The need is not the belief. You follow me? The need shows you that you believe it is scarce and therefore it is.

**Response:** Oh yeah. Thank you.

That is why you can feel the idea of need not in a negative way—not of something to get rid of but something to recognize as one more message to yourself about something that you believe about yourself which allows you to then view how it is your belief and why your reality is following your belief perfectly.

**Response:** So if I have the idea for example that I need more money, then I'm creating the idea that there's a scarcity of money and that is your reality.

**Response:** Yeah, thank you. It is very simple.

## Further Personal Integration

**Question:** Any tips on how you would shift that question?

I always have.

**Response:** Yeah, I know.

Along with along with—you are ALL THAT IS. Period.

**Question:** In any sense, you are also finding that you are willing in the sharing of our consciousness to begin allowing yourself to disconnect from one vibration reality and reconnect to many more multi-dimensional aspects of yourself. But there is still within you some of the belief in that sense that you must remain fixed in one focus. And so there is resistance. 

Within the resistance there is tension. Within the tension there is the headache. It is the friction of two separate vibrational realities interacting with each other.


**Response:** I'm trying to see how I can let go of that belief.

By simply allowing yourself to live through it. Experience it, not get rid of it. Allow yourself to recognize the idea of the blending. Allow yourself to imagine the blending in of itself as a valid reality. Allow yourself to picture it, live through it, enjoy it, experience it in all of its multifaceted dimensional creation. Then you will be enjoying the experience and you will not have your headache.

**Response:** So blending in itself gets the shifting.

If you recognize the idea of the tension, then by all means sink within your tension in your imagination. Dive in. Enjoy the tension. Yes. Okay, we're good. Feel the great energy within what you call tension and know that it is simply another manifestation of the same creative energy which you are made of.


**Response:** Yeah, that that helps. I feel like I can apply that to a lot of things where I thought well how do I integrate that? I mean it's one thing to talk about integrated things but sometimes I'm not sure what you mean by that.

**Question:** Is that always true of any phenomena that you're finding on your horizon that if you just completely let yourself sink into it that you experience your reality, not resist it but experience it—

Is in that way simply the way that you always create more reality to experience and you will let your life move. Then you will always have a new horizon as you will constantly be in the for question.

**Response:** So not a question but so if you're experiencing your totally different then it will be enjoyable in that sense. It will become integrated within you. You will explore and find many different personality portions you had not been there and you will understand how now that you have passed through it, it is no longer a tool that you need.

**Response:** Oh yeah. Yeah. That's great. That's great. Yes. Fully contracting. Yes. That's my idea. Whatever. Yes. Yes. Yes. It is living it.

**Response:** I thought I guess you know I for I had without really realizing I allowed the idea that I'm not supposed to enjoy that. That's not supposed to be fun.

Oh no. Yes. Not what we hope. Yes. All those separate you from the opportunity of creating in that sense the positive side. Oh, as you are not willing to experience the negative side as valid.


## Poverty and Abundance

**Response:** I found lately a lot of people that I know that have been coming to the channel associated with the last several weeks are all experiencing this poverty right and coming up. I just found it interesting that a lot of us were doing that.

You have created great abundance of poverty. It is one type of abundance. When it is also seen as equally valid to every other type of abundance, then you allow yourself to experience all other types of abundance as well.

**Response:** Spread the word. We've all been kind of hiding it from each other. Our rent—trying to pretend we're still doing like spiritual bad breath.

That's right. You just lost $500 in silver. Understand that. All right. Many times when you find yourself unable, as you say, to pay your rent, it allows you the opportunity to create a reality in which that may not be necessary.

**Response:** I would like to share something from the last week or so. All right. My car broke down and my husband's motorcycle was already broken down. I have never got a car. My whole reality of recently has been based on driving everywhere and just going here and going there and never just staying in one place, not even for a Wednesday. 

The car broke in and I went and there was a tendency to just want to freak out and frantically run around trying to get somebody to fix this, come up with the money and find the mechanic, and I couldn't get through my mechanic. And so I just thought, no, you know, this is like why don't I just let this go and see where it leads me, you know? And so I just relaxed. I didn't even bother. 

I didn't bother getting the money, finding a mechanic or anything. I just kind of doomed off, left slept in in the morning, had friends over, and it took about a day of just totally raw being able to run around in my car. 

But you know, it opened—it totally shifted my life because I had been because I had the car, I'd been running around and having a certain focus and it totally shifted the focus.

number one, a bunch of people came over to my house instead of me having to run over to there. And number two, it opened up a whole new area of a possibility of our family living with another family that I hadn't even met and I love them and the kids and the people, everything is just perfect and wonderful and it work out great and it's good for everybody.

There's not even a single negative aspect anywhere in it and it's like I never would have opened to that because I was looking so hard at the other possibilities.


There will be one more idea foundation within the idea you call poverty as it will represent to you many times symbolically as you say having reached the bottom of your barrel. Understand that when you are at the bottom in your terminology, then everything else is off. Right. Right. Therefore every possibility becomes equally valid.


**Response:** Yeah. It encourage at least from my angle it encourages interaction with others.

Yes. And that's why—you know something—my car broke down at the end of January and a friend of mine gave me her car. She has another car and I've had it ever since that time and she hasn't even asked for it back. What an incredible friend I have to just give me a—what a coincidence. One right after another.

**Response:** Thank you. Now that I buy another car, I think I was a different car. But you may wish to ask her first. Somebody else gave me the money to get my car.

**Question:** Mike, what do you do? The delineations between who was what, you know, and starting to kind of slide a little bit.

Very good. Now, since you are all having such a good time, then there will be a few more minutes left together or do you plan to separate out and live in the country? Again, many of us will experience variations of many of those ideas from time to time. So enjoying the idea of what you call city although not so much like your cities, many times wishing in that way to simply explore walking from the big countryside by the south. Will depend, as also it is with you. There is not that way what will be the tight clustering of buildings is what we represent as a city and there is the simplicity of form in what would be called the domed structure prevailing throughout.

**Response:** Not really. You will understand it in that sense as one seemingly seamless homogeneous material of a span which will be opaque in that way when we wish, transparent when we wish. That will be in that sense doorways or isolated windows in certain areas again when we wish. When not, it will appear seamless if possible much in a way again like our spacecraft. It is activated in that way through the connection of our thoughts with what is going to be the computer and we recognize our ships in that way in sense to be self-aware—the same with your house to a degree.

**Question:** Do they contain large or just one?

They are in themselves the house. Plants that will grow as you say naturally in many portions of our planet. We do not in that way pick them and bring them within. If they grow naturally within, then enjoy those.

**Question:** Oh yes. The body itself would be the water and both of those.

**Response:** Whenever we left our hand on a tree, you felt the bark, the outside of the tree here. It feels like normally it feels kind of—like the tree cut back that occurs on your planet all times. When you are willing to listen, when you are willing to feel, there is also in that light as you have recognized, big perhaps not so much consciously, also a symbol in that sense in what term plant kingdom which will form the more direct link that you may communicate with in that way to what you turn to yourselves and nature represented to you by what you call the pine.
