---
title: "Walk-Ins"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1985-08-07
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 33
tags: ['car']
---



I got humming birds.

How many others?

Many individuals have fascinations or fixations upon that idea. Recognize in this way that this will be a symbol within the mass consciousness to represent the acceleration rate of time which you are now creating for yourself. Recognizing that way that one who turns to be that creature, humming, exists at an accelerated rate of perception. This will be symbolic in that way of the energy now being utilized by the individuals upon your civilization as they allow their momentum to increase, as they allow the integration of all the different levels of their consciousness to manifest and add to the acceleration of their own growth, time as it pertains to the overall transformation taking place upon your planet.

Does that mean that they perceive themselves to be moving slower than we perceive them? More casual than they be moving slowly? Me: Good. Yeah. Okay. Does that mean that for those of us who are spearheading this transformation, that we will be viewing those around us who are not quite moving as fast as us to be... Yes, that may be an opportunity to actually physically manifest a literal translation of this symbol. But for the most part, it will simply seem to be that the situation, the environment, and the individuals around you will look—not any sense—somewhat, take my meaning, flat-ish, two-dimensional. You follow me? Your reality in that way will seem to be a projection, a little bit more of an illusion. It will seem to open in another density level. It will begin to be perceived almost as not being real. This will be more likely the perception you will have rather than the actual slowing down of ideas. You follow me?

I'm personally going through, I guess, confusion with being busy and not being busy. I seem to get more done, and I'm doing nothing.

That is the idea. When you are not trying, then you can do. You follow me? Yeah. The idea of being busy many times will involve doing nothing but trying. You follow me? You will be doing trying and be very busy at trying. But understand that in doing, then you allow your life to attract to you and to attract yourself to all the situations that are necessary in exact timing. Things will flow quite naturally, quite uniformly, quite easily, quite smoothly in that way. And it will seem as if you are expending no effort and getting a great deal done. Follow me? This is again the natural state as you move from third to fourth density.

Yes. I had an experience today. I was meditating and I felt a sensation on my hand. I knew it was some kind of a wise creature. I opened my eyes, and it was a bee. And what was really exciting about this is that my first inclination was to shake it off, that feeling of fear, you know, like that belief I grew up with that these will sting you. And that first thought was to shake it off, but I didn't. I hung out with the fear, and it was like there was so much power in just that emotion, in fear. And I just stayed with it, and it flew away. And I mean, the fear kept mounting; it wasn't like it went away. It was like, as I let that bee walk, it started walking on my arm, the fear got more intense, more intense. But I didn't shake it off. I just let it be.

It was a phenomenal experience. It's not like running away from that fear once again, kind of you know, like not allowing yourself... Oh, that is a good one. To be here now. Yeah. What was fun about it was that I allowed myself to feel that feeling rather than trying, like shaking off would have been to eliminate that feeling. I let myself feel it. Felt great power.

Yes, and I figured that's so... I mean, anyway, so it was like, you know, I might as well just see what happens.

Thank you very much for the exploration of another portion of your own consciousness and the willingness to integrate that idea within yourself.

Can you talk a little bit more about trying? You know, because all the spirits I've been talking to say you're never trying; you're doing something or not. Yesterday I was thinking about, I was looking at a baseball game, you know. And in the course of the game, a batter comes up to bat and his intention is to get on base, and the pitcher's intention is to strike him out or to get him out, prevent him from getting on base. In the course of the game, you know, one will succeed and one will fail. So the batter is in the course of the game trying to get on base, and the pitcher is trying to get him out.

You are simply using vernacular and terminology. That is all. Understand in that way that when an individual, as you say, gets on base, they get on base. When they do not get on base, they are doing not getting on base. You follow me? The idea is not that they are trying. The idea is that if you are trying, you are doing trying. It is in and of itself a separate idea of doing. The idea of staying where they are is that idea. The idea of running to the base is the idea of running to the base. The idea in and of itself is its own complete manifestation. Recognize that because you create the idea of a time flow, then you make correlations and relationships between an idea that leads to another idea. But understand each and every step is its own complete process. You follow me?

Right. Yeah, like I remember how much excitement I've had when I've been in the outfield and a ball was hit. I had to run a long way to catch that ball, or to try to catch that ball, and there's a lot of excitement. And the trying, not knowing whether I'll succeed or not in catching the ball, but having to give it every effort—that trying is very exciting.

Yes, but understand also many times when you form the habit of trying in that way, then many times you will also create frustration from trying by not knowing how to do, rather than trying. Follow me? Yeah, it can be frustrating. Every time you go for the ball, you just miss. You know, if you succeed in catching it some of the time, you feel good. But if you miss... Maybe not understand that if an individual enjoys trying so much more than anything else, they continue to enjoy missing the ball. Follow me? They will simply be enjoying the idea of trying, and catching the ball is not important to them.

I have something to share.

Oh, what?

Thank you. In relation to what you have said before about if you be in an idea and just let it leave open as to how that idea will come about, it will come about in the best of all requirements.

Okay, well, I've got these high-tech, high-fidelity earbuds that are fairly expensive that allow me to reproduce sound on a very personal basis in my ears. And one of them, my right one, was buzzing and sounded like a bad speaker. I was irritated by the fact that it was an expensive device that was giving me this distorted sound. I decided I wanted to find out what it was, what the source of it was, why it was doing that. I really didn't give it a whole lot of thought as to how I was going to go about doing that. Anyway, I had my little portable player plugged into the wall basically. I forgot that it was plugged in, so I picked it up to walk away with it, and the connection to the wall pulled out of my hand and then pulled the earbud out of my ear. And in doing so, it broke the earbud open. Oh, damn, now I've broken it. But in fact, I hadn't actually broken it; it just pulled itself apart so that I could see what was causing the buzzing. And when I put it back together, it didn't buzz anymore.

May I suggest that in that way you can then see how the incident was more like a dream. Follow me? Recognize that that situation occurring in your dream state would usually occur more often in the way you describe it. Simply that what occurs, you simply become fascinated with this little thing rather than judging it to be right or wrong. The idea of it pulling out of your ear and breaking open would be something you would simply walk up to and look at, as you do more in the dream state. In that way, you will then understand how you allow the flow of reality to continue to flow rather than fixating it by judging that this may be a right or wrong occurrence. Very good. Thank you.

For now, over my planet in one sense, say only... space. I went home the last time. It had more to do with the idea we discussed of you allowing yourself to interfere with the electronic field in that way to remind yourself that you did not need it, that you knew it already. I didn't bring it. Thank you.

You have indicated that every atom and cell in the body will develop and evolve into a full-blown, full self-consciousness. I'm wondering if you have...

In one sense, this is correct. Understand that the idea of consciousness is contained within every idea, every single element, every item, every component of creation. And in that way, as you recognize that physical reality and the constituents thereof will follow the idea you call the course of time, then you may understand how the energy will transform and transfer from one ideal level to the other until it allows itself to work its way up through to the entire complete totality of all creation. Recognizing that when it reaches the one whole totality idea, it will recognize it very much started out that way to begin with, as one complete idea before it "branched out." You follow me? Yes. Thereby it will arrive at the same place it started from. This will then form the loop that represents, within the idea of physical reality, the boundary limit in a sense to the physical expression, whereby then you transform and elevate to the next magnitude of dimensionality.

To understand the mechanics from your point of view, would it be accurate to say that we, such as ourselves, started out that way in a sense?

In a sense. Take one step further. They also indicated that suns, stars, are very, very evolved beings in very ultra-high density levels.

Also, in a sense, understand again that everything in physical reality is a symbol for consciousness of one form or another. Recognize that you exist on every level of existence that there is, though right now you are focused to your way of thinking from this level through this idea right here, right now. There are forms of your own consciousness which, to other dimensions of reality, do appear as stars. Understand in that way it is not so much that they represent the idea of being evolved beings beyond yourselves, but that some portion of your consciousness and the portions of other consciousnesses in that way will represent themselves by that physical symbol in other dimensionalities. You follow me? Yes.

Could any of us be that in one other aspect of the universe? They will, for the most part, represent certain collective consciousness ideas.

Is this in fact what the term "planetary logos" means?

Yes.

He talked about personality. Well, one person has many, many personalities. All right. Different... same. What is your specific reference and how do you feel it applies to you?

Well, to the fact that supposedly there's one person that has personalities... same. Do you mean counterpart or parallel dimensionality? I'm not sure.

All right. Counterpart will be the representation of the idea that you are one fragment of your whole soul self, and another individual living physically at the same time you are will be another fragment of the same soul. That will be counterpart. Parallel dimensionality will be similar, but it will occur in an alternate parallel reality that you do not physically perceive.

Me: Yeah. All right. You also, as a personality yourself, are composed of many sub-personalities in that sense that do exist in different planes or dimensional levels of existence. As you then call upon them to integrate within you, they have a portion of their energy that is reflected in your presence as well. And the more you integrate all of your sub-personality levels within yourself and become one identifiable personality in that way, in much the same manner does the entire mass consciousness of your civilization, when each and every one of you allow yourselves to be the complete, valid, unique individual that you are, then the mass consciousness can then draw upon you to add to its sense of completeness. In other words, then, paradoxically, the stronger you become as an identity, the stronger the mass conscious identity becomes. You do not lose your sense of identity in forming one unified mass consciousness. Just the opposite. Thank you.

Question. Yes, for sure. I'd like you to define, if you will, the word "theist" very briefly, if possible.

The understanding of consciousness as it views itself to actually be in one sense. Oh, this will be the primary identification. In one sense, the basic identification it views itself to actually be the dimension which it occupies. Okay. Follow me? Yes, I do. And we actually have some part of our ourselves on all density levels. Is that correct?

You are creation. And so, therefore, we occupy all density levels. All density levels occupy you.

Question. We walk in, we walk into the room, see certain something that could be, may not be, but then we turn and actually use our physical eyes to see this item, we lose it. And she talks about when we first see this thing out of the corner of our eyes, it's like another density.

Yes, in a sense, more often than not can be parallel dimensionality, alternate reality slightly out of phase, out of sync with your frequency that you call this reality.

How do we make these things manifest?

Why should you want to?

All right, fair enough. But why am I?

You chose to be. Okay. Now understand, we already recognize your willingness by saying, "why not?" All well and good. Now we simply, in the form of discussion, are asking you for specific... why. You're not saying why as a challenge. We are now saying why as, tell us how you will do this.

You will know how you will do this by allowing yourself to know why within you. In other words, what is it about the idea that strikes a chord within your imagination? It seems to be where I'm going anyway now. All right. In one sense, yes. Very good. What else?

Well, it also has to do with what's happening. All right. Very good. What I do when I'm going anyhow, what's happening with all of us now? You have answered your own question because understand if that is where you are going, you will do it. If that is what is happening with everyone, you will probably not be able to stop it. Allow it to manifest in its own timing. The timing always is a part of the purpose. You follow me? Okay. That's a part of that busy thing that I mentioned to you. I just got to get there. I can't wait.

If you create for yourself the judgment of impatience, recognize that then, if and when you get there, you may find yourself empty-handed in order to be able to deal with it. By not paying attention to what was along the road you traveled to get there. Whenever you feel yourself being impatient, recognize that where you are exactly right now at any given moment is necessary for a full appreciation of where you are going. So there is never any use for that. It's that bur or thing you will feel. The acceleration again, quite paradoxically, when you allow yourself to slow down and accept what your life is because you have created it for the reasons you are beginning to perceive. Therefore, let the simple situations and the relationships and the interactions and the happenings from day to day be representative of what you chose to experience so that you could appreciate where you are going when you get there. Then understand that the way to appreciate where you are going is to appreciate where you are. You follow me? Mhm. Thank you.

A friend of mine was talking about circumstances in my life and I knew all the reasons why they happened and it was perfect because I discovered this and that, and it was perfect. And he just looked at me and said, "No matter what happened in your life, you would say it was perfect." And I said, "Well, yeah, that's right." And I really liked that. I reflected, even though he was being a little kind of cynical about the idea and he wasn't presenting it in a positive way, it seemed like more of a negative idea, I felt it like confirmation that I knew that everything was perfect.

Yes. They feel at this time within yourself the idea of being able to explore another symbol which we will call the exploration of your own octave. You may begin to visualize within your imagination certain patterns which present to you the harmonics of octaves. Allow yourself to know you are beginning in that way then to break through to another level of yourself that recognizes a blending of components. In other words, then, in a sense, instead of feeling that you are making one step at a time as individual steps, you can now begin to get a sense of making one step at a time but each step composed of eight parts. In that way, you can understand yourself as a harmonic, and each and every idea that you create as a harmonic rather than some single isolated idea. In that way, you'll be able to represent to yourself that with each and every idea you will understand how it resonates with more of a totality around you rather than seeming to vibrate singly, alone with one note. You follow me?

Sometimes when I close my eyes, I'll see patterns. Is that what that is?

Yes, yes, yes. You are beginning again to understand from the point of view of the harmonics. That is what the patterns are. Vibratory patterns are harmonics, overlapping vibratory patterns. You follow me? You are beginning to see and hear and feel what your signature vibration is.

Can you tell me more about me and the Japanese stuff? I want to ask you for a second. Is it kind of inconceivable to me that this, I guess it was a Boeing 747, the tail fell off about 100 miles before the plane crashed, and there were four survivors. Can you say anything about that?

It was obviously not inconceivable to the survivors. I meant about this, a whole tail section falling off the airplane.

It is quite normal. That will represent the structural integrity as it is created. When there is stress, that will be one of the first points to go. But it will remain mostly holding from their back. It happens quite often in a sense, but it allows there to be the integrity maintained within. It wasn't only the tail section. Recognize that was also the case in the prior crash following. Yes. Also recognize that many of what were told to be survivors in several of the similar incidents were also in what was told to be the tail section.

Did that have to have some kind of other significance to you, you know, the mass consciousness that we're all going through? Um, what is that representing?

There will be many ideas. There will be as many as there are people involved, to a degree. There may be some mass conscious idea, but recognize to begin with that the entire idea of all the collective number of people in that way, allowing themselves to transform from physicality to non-physicality, is that they serve their purpose to allow themselves in this way to clear out the idea of themselves that they have now finished a certain idea of themselves. And the majority of those individuals will choose to reincarnate from one year to five years of your time to be present during the transformation as a younger generation. In this way, simply recognize that those individuals who survived, you may consider them to be in the process of making a similar decision but also grabbing for themselves the impetus and energy which will now rearrange their mental patterns so that they may be able to complete their sense of self-created karma while still alive, as they will serve a purpose for other people. Having not chosen the idea of non-physicality at this time, they will form for themselves, they will represent for other people as symbols of a certain idea.

On that subject, it has struck me before that the air crashes that I've been reading about, you know, the ones that are fatal usually kill most of the people, and anybody who survived is in kind of good shape on the average. And this is so striking in that a whole section of the plane broke off and there was a whole stack of survivors who actually were in excellent shape. And it hit me that in the mass conscious decision of that airplane to crash, some of them just were not vibrating to the idea of death, and those that remained managed to work it out so that they just came out without a scratch.

Yes. Understand you are in full control of your reality. And what is represented by the purpose you have chosen to be here for will always represent the track that you find yourself on. If it does not serve a purpose for what you have chosen, it will not happen.

I have one more question for right now. When we were talking about that past life, that Japanese past life that I was integrating now, is a lot of that sense of my sense of fearlessness, which was, as we said, the idea that you are transferring the code of ethics of that civilization into your present understanding of how you will serve?

Yes. And at one time that was a real negative thing for me. In this short period of time ago, it was a very critical part of me. Is that part of me in this life?

Yes. How do you know?

Understand in that way that when there is communication within the idea of a total entity, the ideas themselves, being vibrations, being transmissions being sent out in wavelengths, will issue forth from the central core of the entity. And when translated in that way, when accepted in that way, will allow themselves to form into the understanding and knowing that represent those particular wavelengths, those particular lives, vibrations, feelings, incidents, occurrences, relationships, and what have you. We are simply, in other words, perceiving what the entity is sending on another level other than what you consider to be the normal range of your perceptions. You follow me?

For the most part, for individuals upon your planet, yes. For us, no.

Why do you know all the answers?

We do not know all the answers to everything except in the same way that each and every individual within creation, including yourselves, knows the answers to everything you need to know about your lives and about the purposes you have chosen. Understand that we are not giving you answers you do not already know. You are allowing us to reflect to you that which you already contain within you. Understand that to be able to perceive what we are discussing and sharing with you means that you must already contain that vibration or you would not be able to perceive it. You would not even be here. You follow me? Understand simply that you have a phrase in your civilization. In one sense it is quite literal: it takes one to know one. Recognize this is quite simple mathematics, quite simple physics, quite simple mechanics. If you do not recognize that you contain the vibration, you cannot perceive that vibration in anyone else. If you perceive a vibration, if you perceive an idea, if you can imagine it, then you do contain it. It is real for you. It is something that has manifest ability in your life. Otherwise, you would go right on by, oblivious to the idea completely, and never share it, never experience it, never even understand how it may be possible for anyone else to even create that for themselves. When you perceive something, it is because you are functioning in the same wavelength. That is all there is to it. It is all a matter of wavelength, tuning in to various wavelengths. You follow me?

No. Thank you, but sure. I feel like the past couple weeks I've asked you questions. I feel like there's a lot more information that I almost feel like I'm just checking this out. You stop. There are things that you have to say.

Just stop. There will be two basic reasons for what you may perceive to be the limitation of information. One will be when we recognize that you will be interfered with in terms of the ability to exercise your own free will about the situation. Because many times, as was just demonstrated, the idea that most of your civilization perceives about other civilizations, that somehow we know more or better than you do—this is not the case. And we always maintain the idea that the limitation of the information will allow you to make decisions for your own life. We have no need to run your life. No, thank you. Also, if there is the indication that in receiving the answers, in allowing yourself to perceive the answers through us rather than yourself, you will be, as we have said, giving your power away to us again. Then, no, thank you. Your power is your own.

You know things. Understand that this is a possible idea, but understand one thing about that which you call prediction. There is no such thing as a prediction of the future. Recognize that you are in the present. You follow me? So far, that is the only framework you exist in, always. You create the idea of the past and you create the idea of the future from the present. Understand that what you call a prediction, per se, is simply the sensing of certain potentialities within your energy field that you are, I'll say, very, very, very greatly behind—happening in other words, you are putting a great deal of momentum into certain ideas. These ideas are perceived by another individual. They say, "These ideas that you are putting a great deal of energy behind have the most likelihood of happening, of manifesting physically in your life." But understand that is a sensing that takes place at the moment the prediction is made. If in the next second you decide to change your mind, change your energy, change your focus, change the momentum of energy you have behind any idea that you wish to manifest, the prediction itself may even allow you to do that to change your mind. Then the prediction goes out the window. You follow me?

Oh, yes. Understand that that idea is only a tool. Every physical symbol is only a tool to represent certain ideas about your true self. You are the power. You are the action. You are the event of your life. You are the unfoldment. Everything else, in a sense—not to be judged negatively, for they do serve a function—but everything else is trappings. You follow me? Therefore, the idea of perceiving an individual in that way is simply direct knowingness without the need for an intervening tool to separate you from the idea. You are the ideas in your life. When you recognize yourself as the idea, then you'll recognize every idea that goes along with it, every fragment of the idea that goes along in creating that idea. It will all be one primary, distal reckoning. You follow me?

Now, there is in a sense understand that when you make a choice, because you have projected yourself into physical materiality, you have then, in a mass conscious sense, agreed to abide by certain ideas you call the laws of physics. In a sense, therefore, once you make a choice, you have agreed to go a certain distance before you can make another choice, before you can change the course of events again. Therefore, there is both simultaneously free will and inherent predestination up to a point. You follow me?

Are you sure? No, thank you. In other words, let us say you have a choice of going through three doors—A, B, C. Now, when you choose to go through one of the doors, it will lock behind you. The only way out is to go to the end of the hall and go through another three doors. You follow me? Therefore, you made a free will choice to go through door A. You will be able to make a free will choice to go through the three doors at the end of hallway A. But once you are in hallway A, you have predetermined the path for the length of hallway A.

How do you know how long it is?

It does not matter. It is not a matter of how much time something takes. Life unfolds not according to time. It unfolds within time, but not according to time. It unfolds according to timing, which is quite different. You follow me? Things occur coincidentally, not accidentally, but coincidentally because of timing, not time. You follow me? Then understand that since you know you have made the choice of going in hallway A, recognize that because it is your choice, it will not matter how long nor how short you are in hallway A. It will represent the perfect unfoldment of your timing. You will be in it as long as you need to—not one second less, not one second more. Therefore, it will not matter how long or short because you know when you get to the end, you will be getting there in exactly the right timing. In other words, as you create them, dates with destiny are always on time. You follow me? Thank you.

Yes. Okay, so when I came into this body this last time, I came in as a third-density being. Did I... okay. Today, and if I were to have something happen to my body and I left the body, would I be in third density or would I be in fourth? If I left the body, I would be in fourth. Okay. Okay. Now I have a question. If I have a counterpart here on this planet, they are also third-density. Yes. Okay. And they would do the same thing over again. What I have, as a whole soul, but I have other beings and... other.

As we have said, you occupy every level of density that exists. Body? Yes. Understand that most of what you refer to as density will be, in your terms, non-physical. Fourth density will be usually the limit in which you can occupy anything that you, from this point of view, will recognize to be a material body.

About a year ago, I talked to you about when I was driving through Arizona and saw the... and a lot of... I said goodbye. I felt tremendous love for them and from them. And was I perceiving a parallel universe?

In one sense, understand that that culture in your civilization called American Indian recognizes themselves to live happily in third-dimensional materiality and in fourth-dimensional astral reality. Therefore, they carry with them at all times the field of energy round about them that, if you are sensitive to it, you can then recognize that you can be sensing the doorway to that fourth-dimensional reality.

Question. Actually, something to share. Question referring to the subject that we were on a while ago of not vibrating to a wavelength means that you basically don't perceive that wavelength. What that is... something occurs to me that for a long time bothered me a lot, doesn't bother me anymore—I realized what it was. And that is that, well, I'm not a bad-looking guy, but the good-looking chicks, many of the good-looking chicks never saw me. I was invisible to them. You know, a chick being a female. And they never looked at me, they never saw me. And for a while I was thinking, I realized I'm invisible to these people, and that bothered me a lot until I realized that the reason is I'm really vibrating on a different wavelength from them all together. I realized it was at this... stage that gave me probably a great advantage by being different. Okay. But that kind of clarified that quote problem to me. All right, very good. And the question that I have relates to the subject of responsibility.

Oh, what? Now, I've had... points depending on who I talked to about the subject of when a being does drop his body and takes responsibility for his acts that he maybe wasn't taking the responsibility for while he was in the body. Maybe he was... I'm confused. Is there a process of taking responsibility, or viewing what you've done and judging yourself, or is it not a judgment?

Okay. Understand in that way that if you choose within the physical life to be the type of individual who would then experience the idea of avoiding responsibility, that was the choice. From the non-physical point of view, you will simply recognize it as a non-judgmental choice. But you will also recognize the opportunity then to balance it out. In this way, what you term karma is completely self-created and self-imposed, but not out of judgment, only out of a sense of balance for what you already have experienced and then wish to experience its polarity.

Oh, just basically an innate desire to experience the polarity of it. Yes. So somebody like Hitler would, after living that life, select a life which would perhaps give him persecution.

Perhaps, perhaps not. Perhaps it can be the idea that he will aid the persecuted. But allow me to say at this time, the psychic mass of that particular individual will be quite some time, in your terms of reckoning, before they will reincarnate. They are in a sense in a state of suspension. That he must create that himself, correct? Yes. And what, there was such a high degree of negativity compiled that it will require quite some time—I'll say to be colloquial in your vernacular, this is not exactly accurate translation, but it will take quite some time for psychic repair.

What is called a walk-in? All right. They go on their way. They emerge into fourth density. They... yes. When was that? At what point did he take over? Before he became president. Yes. It is increasing, but still not a high percentage. What?

Well, you may look at it in one way—now this will be not meant to be flippant—but it does save time in terms of the birthing process. He was aware of that. He wanted the experience at that time. It was the timing of the purpose and the symbology of the purpose being served.

Well, on the subject, right, is Kennedy still moving around, having... reincarnated? Know where? That is not allowed at this time. Why? Because, again, as we have said, it will interfere with the idea being played out. Your free will—at this time to know will not serve the purpose of the idea for that consciousness nor for the mass consciousness of your civilization.

How about...?

Yes, I should describe the ideas you call Kennedy. You may relate it to the same energy of Lincoln. The very same. Yes, very interesting. So he...

You all are... on the subject of Lincoln again... well actually, on the subject of walk-ins in general, what is it perceived like by those around that individual after the walk-in has occurred?

There may be the strongest perception of a change in the personality, change of goals. You follow me?

Is there a similarity to the walk-in like what happens between the channel and you? Is it kind of...?

Nope, not at all. There's no aspect of that personality that is also connected or a later aspect of itself. It's totally different. It is similar only in the sense that there is an agreement between different levels of consciousness as they have been created.

What about the memory of the... I don't understand that one.

One moment. Allow me to say in this way that the idea of what you call a walk-in will carry with it another personality frame of reference. To some degree, some of the memories will remain as it will be the energy that will simply read the patterns that already exist as they have been grooved into the brain itself. You follow me? Understand in this case, I'll say with what you are experiencing before you, in this way it is an agreement while still both consciousnesses are becoming consciously aware of what is going on. There is not in that way a leaving. There is not in that way a transferring. It is a parallel idea rather than a transfer. You follow me?

Mhm. I guess my question was more related to you being kind of an aspect of Daryl in itself, you know, a later aspect.

All right, but you may view this in a sense in a straightforward linear time mode if you wish. This will be one way of looking at it. The physical channel before you dies. You follow me? Uhhuh. Reincarnates on my planet. I go back in time to talk with him. You follow me? No, I... just keep it simple. The physical channel before you dies. Okay. Reincarnate upon my world as me. Okay. I go back in time in my ship to talk with him or through him. The same consciousness. You follow me? No, again. All right, keep it simple. I'm keeping it simple. The physical channel before you dies physically. Okay. The spirit now changes, shifts its energy vibration to the vibration of my civilization. Okay. Incarnates upon my world. Okay. As me. Okay. You follow me? Yes, so far. So far. We have the capability in our ships and in our mentality of transcending time. Okay. Therefore, in that way, while you view us in one vernacular to be 300 years ahead of you, we are also simultaneous and as such can communicate with our past selves. I see. Will that be clearer? That's much, much, much clearer. That's what you're doing right now? Yes. Okay. Well, does Daryl, does Daryl as... is Daryl aware or does he know, for instance, you could explain all of this stuff to us if Daryl returns? When he returns, could he...?

Every individual has the same abilities in this way. But understand that what you term to be the physical channel before you, you call D, will also at this time be serving a purpose within the timing of the mass consciousness and therefore accepts certain limitations which prevent this from time to time. Understand there is more of what you term to be a blending, more willingness to be able to function this way in a sense more of the time. But understand again that because what you call the physical channel is in your civilization and I am in mine, then each of us will represent the idea of the total purpose of the civilization. And for right now, some of the ideas of limitation still hold because they serve a purpose for the timing involved. Okay.

Bashar, so is Daryl on your spaceship now? Is that why you keep opening your eyes again and looking around? Is he looking around on your ship?

No. Oh. Is there a reason you're opening your eyes a lot tonight?

Recognize in this way that there is absolutely no visual contact for the physical channel going on. What you are perceiving in that way is simply the response of the physical body according to my own movements as I am perceiving my surroundings. You follow me?

Yeah. Let's go back to the walk-in.

Allow me to say that we will continue after you take a short break.

Okay. Oh, to say question... Okay. I have to... the walk-in thing, kind of... will that be happening with anybody in this room?

Allow me to say at this time, there is a potential for free will. It is not yet determined. I will say again, there will be a generalized idea though. For each individual, it will be within their own specifics. In one sense, understand in this way, this will be that the individuals originally, as you would say, originally occupy the physical forms will wish to reincarnate quickly within the transformational time period. Thus, approximately allowing themselves at the highest point of transformation to be, or allow me to say, anywhere between 10 years of age and 16. Follow me? No, I... just the age. In other words, as these individuals may choose to reincarnate, they will reincarnate at such a time that they, within the transformational period which will occupy, I'll say roughly, the next 30 of your years, they will be within the highest point of that transformational experience anywhere from 10 to 16 years of age.

So you're saying the being in this room would drop their body and walk into some other somebody else's?

No, they will reincarnate and allow someone else to come into their bodies. Oh, instead of dying, they just kind of go to sleep, and someone else wakes up.

There's nobody in this room between... the people that will leave their bodies and allow others to come into their bodies will reincarnate, and they will be between 10 and 16 years of age at the highest point of the transformation within the next 30 of your years. Thank you.

Is that part of some of that communication that I feel sometimes with that energy? That potential, so to speak? Not really, no. That walk-in possibility? Not really.

Could that have happened possibly to someone that we know already? Could we tell?

At this time, you could not necessarily tell. Understand this is an age on your planet of transformation. Therefore, many individuals will allow themselves to shift their own vibration without needing to be a walk-in to do so. That individual will represent, I'll say, to some degree transformational energy, but it is not the idea directly of what you call walk-in.

What percentage of the population experiences walk-ins? Of the bodies on this planet, how many at this time?

Allow me to say, approximately 5%. Interesting. Now, honestly, subject again of memory. Will the being who has walked in, according to the point of view of those around him, appear not to remember things, or will he...?

There may be a few things. Again, it will be mostly determined by the intensity of the energy and the purpose which is being served. There may be no need to connect to those memories in that way. They may alter the brain paths to serve the new purpose.

Will that being have a sense of having walked in, or will it seem like... What's the majority on that?

At this time, allow me to say the majority do not recognize themselves as walk-ins. So they feel like they've been there all along, or is there a sense they feel different, they feel somehow not connected, but they do not know why? I see. Almost as though they feel like something occurred that made them kind of flip out. And in any sense, yes. And after a while, that normalizes. Yes. Could this have occurred already to anybody in this room?

We will not discuss this at this time.

Can I ask you about somebody who might be a walk-in? Subject.

Okay, I need to finish the other part one. Okay. Um, there is a connection that I don't know what's happening, but Mark and I... that thing we have discussed, the Earth Ser connection? Yes.

You will find out for your shadows now that the... Thea's no longer in town. For how come, as excited as I was last week to hear from her, how come I'm depressed today after having the experience?

Understand the range of emotionality, the range of energy in this way, will still carry with it the pendulum effect, swinging wildly in both directions. You follow me? There will be... you may simply look at it in that way, almost physically literally a decompression. Follow me? Yeah. Does she feel that? Not really, not in the same way. So it doesn't affect her? The travel from through the distance, their civilization is quite used to it.

Yes. Yes. One moment. My turn. Yes. Okay. Um, you mentioned a few weeks ago that the momentum that I was trying to pick up was starting to also identify with... could you talk more about that? And you said that...

People not this time, which I know. Hey, there will be months of acceleration connection to many different ideas in the next... will is for my you leave like... perfect... to there is but again as you say, like what you would very enjoy. Okay, okay. You, when energy you yourself are experiencing in following it is from... speak comment on that idea. First of all, though, there is... civilization idea of negative energy. The term Orion has negative sense, negative systems. I'm simply, maybe as an offering, it suggests that you do not have, but at your consciousness, because a choice, the choices to identify with all of these ideas are now yourself, the opportunity collectively. Like there are a few of us in this room. What are we collectively predicting for your... majority? Okay. Thanks. We have nothing to do with it. Question about how you and Daryl... you very much, in a sense, yes. Speak directly penetrates way in a sense. Yes. Signature vibration. It feels different speaking to somebody else. I just want to appreciate as of any and each. Thank you.

Oh, I have an ex-girlfriend very much... as is no longer there, not... except she is intended to... a lifetime and... up with... she being able to experience there at the same time. So she and I had a tremendous amount of love. While I'm doing that, I'm having... to in a way that... well, are you? I'm not sure that it's there, but I would like to be able to... the flow back.

Understand that the idea of unconditional love is that you are offering it no matter what they choose. That you can, from that point of view, want a relationship. Even again, that is still a relationship. In fact, it doesn't manifest at all. The relationship exists exactly as much as you find it. As much more of it, that is all that is necessary. Understand, you are putting expectations upon your life. "My love should make her. I should be seeing a result because I am that." An expectation already creates the limitation. What you're saying is... because... it's not true. Why not? Why is it not true? You expressed something. It's not. Why not? Because details of it, of the case as you have described them to this point, you expect... yeah. Is there...? Yeah, there is. See, in my understanding, depression at whatever time is appropriate for her. Understand, she will feel that she has experienced this depression, then not having been able to experience the benefit of the kind of love that I give her. Of love? I... you are still putting attention. Understand, she may feel something totally different. It may have nothing to do with you whatsoever. She may need something else that will still, in that way, not feel like the ideas you wish to see from her. Yes. That is why we say that is expectation. All the love? Follow me. Okay. You are making the assumption that after she gets through exploring the idea of depression, that that will allow her then to benefit from your love. Understand, she can never benefit from your love unless she chooses to create love for herself.

It's a poorly chosen word in this case. That's not what I'm trying to... I'm talking about... kind of... Why do you find it necessary, in this way, I say focus upon the idea of a potential relationship in a potential form because of the beginning, the romantic period that we had. We had very... so what I like about this is that it's 180° opposite from that. That I would like to be able to... re-ask another question. What is all right? To use your vernacular, more important: the idea of experiencing a relationship or with her in a relationship? What is more important, the idea that you can simply experience one in a relationship, or must it be with her before you will experience worth in a relationship? Warmth, the same... yeah. Then why with her? I don't need to. She's a being that... then what is the point? Not need to experience it. I know one of the things I would like to do is... what way? By giving whatever she wants. You... there is no need to make an association between what was. It is all right. Just something that... I'm not so concerned, become... I was curious. What did you get from yourself? I didn't get... I know. Then go ahead, answer your question. I don't have any more knowledge that I can... I have a viewpoint. What is the viewpoint? She will experience experiencing her... and at that point, she realized that the resistance to... will probably dissolve. Whatever she's holding there to resent me about. Because she's creating things. All right. Now perhaps all of this will come to pass. Now may I ask you another question here? What? How will you... I will maybe some insight. There is nothing you need to look at that you're not already looking at. That's why. Why? Simply, there is only the opportunity to allow yourself to reflect to yourself how you feel about the idea that perhaps may not be something that you counted on. That is all. You okay? There is more to it. One thing I know that I ask: can you view the concept of giving unconditional love in a situation which from Earth standpoint would be... why? Well, considering the habit... what do you mean? Talking about the habits that... oh, very good. Then you recognize the purpose within this idea. I recognize all right. Is that not an... do you like that answer? Question yourself. Do you like... in our personality, we experience certain things in certain days. You know, feeling... in a sense, yes. But understand we do not create negative effect within our emotionality. It just appears that way if that is what you choose to have as your perception. Right, but then you are that for yourself as well. Understand in that way that whereas we may simply recognize ourselves as reflective or meditative, many times individuals upon your planet will create for themselves the negative effect of depression.

Okay. Would you comment on... there is a space of time often that you know when you're feeling peaceful and serene. Is that time, that particular time, does that mean that you have reached a certain plateau, or does it not mean anything?

It means you are creating peace and serenity. That is what it means. Period. No connection to nothing else. Of course, as you make the connections... Okay, that's what I mean. For instance, does it mean... like, has a lesson been learned when you create peace and serenity for yourself? Do you feel that you have learned a lesson? Sometimes. Then in those cases, a lesson has been learned because that is what you have created the peace and serenity for. You may create peace and serenity for other reasons at other times, not always for the learning of a lesson. In a sense, it just seems to be the aftermath of a certain... All right, that will be one valid way of looking at it for you. But understand that the idea of peace and serenity can be created just as any other idea can be created for many different reasons. Once you feel there is no need for you to give yourselves lessons to learn, but rather lives to live, then peace and serenity may be the result of simply living rather than having to learn a lesson. Follow me? Mhm. Thank you. So just going through the experience of life—life is really the only process you really need. You follow me? Yeah. Thank you.

Find you. Question. Can I ask a question? It's a little bit about reincarnation. That was a question right there. Would you like to ask another one? Can I, please? That was two questions. Would you like to ask a... her? No, why not? Thank you. Go ahead. You need not ask if you need to ask. Is this not your world? I'm beginning to wonder why. Find you. Go ahead. Okay. You need children, and they seem very much advanced in their years. Could that be that there is another being that has turned into their body?

Understand that what you're experiencing, as we said with the idea of the individual, is that there has been born into that body to begin with a consciousness with a particular understanding about what they are going to be doing at the time of the transformation. Understand that the majority of births from this point forward in time will result in children that will be consciously aware of their roles within the transformation. You follow me? Yes. What if there are children that seem to be regular, ordinary children at the beginning and then all of a sudden seem to transform into your mother, per se, or into an adult older than you, trying to take care of you instead of...?

Again, understand that those skills and abilities to gather together the different levels of personality consciousness within you are available to anyone. And that will simply be one more manifestation of the beings that are being born upon your planet now. The ability to identify with any other consciousness in such a way as to replicate and reflect that consciousness back. You follow me? As you said, they can seem to become or identify as the other individual seemingly ahead in years. You follow me? Yes. Yes, I follow. Thank you. Will that answer your question, or do you have another? No, that's that. Thank you.

You? Yes. Hello. Um, in regards to channeling recently, there was a breakthrough that occurred for me a week or so ago. Breakthrough from my view. Success, I mean.

We simply make reference to the idea that that idea you call breakthrough has been discussed within the last week, two weeks, and three weeks of your time. As there was at that time a mass conscious breakthrough to another level of understanding. That is partly what you are feeling.

Yeah. In terms of food, I immediately got the understanding the idea to quickly eat an apple, a banana, and grapes. The whole point—and so that there would be more ease or comfort in the experience I was having. And I just like more understanding in regards to the significance of the apple, which I felt has something to do with the brain, and the banana the throat, and the grapes... creating the jaws... helping them become more mobile.

This can be one idea, one level. There are many different levels of this understanding. You may view that what is basically taking place is a balancing of your enzymatic, endocrine systems in this way to allow there to be more ease of regulation of certain energies within your system.

What do you feel about what you call raspberry?

I love those as well.

There will be, within again, more of an ability to regulate the temperature within your bodily system. All right. Yes. Thank you.

Thank you. Question. I remember when I was a little kid, my mother bought a lot of cheese, and I loved cheese, and she said it's good for you to eat it. So I ate it all the time. And so there was nothing contradictory in my belief system because I believed it was good for me, and I ate it all the time. But I kept throwing it up constantly. I just kept eating it because I loved it, you know? But yeah, if your belief system is the only thing that would allow something like that to happen, since I believed that it was good for me, why didn't it simply...?

You believed, obviously, that it was not, if you threw it up. You think you believe it was good for you, but your beliefs always manifest into physical reality. Mhm. Therefore, simply all you need to do is look at what was physically happening to know what the belief was. You may have desired to have it be in that way all right for your vibration, but you believed it was not.

Huh. I was wondering because it seems to me that a lot of other kids could eat a lot of things and not have the physical problems, but I would keep throwing up.

Again, it isn't different for everyone.

Okay. There seems to be this newest disease, or it's not so new I guess anymore, called Candida. It's like a yeast infection. A lot of people are getting it, and a lot of the holistic practitioners are diagnosing it as immune system problems and stuff like that. And they're saying, "Well, you shouldn't eat this type of food and that type of food and this type of food." So what is Candida representing? Any connection at this time?

To what you term to be immune system problems, as also the idea you call AIDS will be representative to a great degree of the idea of being willing to be open to new ideas, to be in a sense infected by a new reality, to remove your barriers of defense against a change. Follow me? Uhhuh. There will be some more on this at another time.

I'd like to make just a statement that I noticed the other day. I was thinking, I said, "Well, there's the Live Aid concerts that went on a while back, and they called it Live Aid, which is a very positive idea. And then there's AIDS, which is kind of a... with a "T" or a... of a negative idea, and that's in the news a lot. So you got like the same word used as the exploration once again of the dichotomy of the polarity."

Yeah, recognize that you will see more and more experience of polarity within the next year to two years of your time. This will be an opportunity for two ideas. One, simply the recognition that as you experience more polarity, more seeming opposites, then you will understand that both of those ideas are contained within you and there is no discrepancy in the sense that they both do emerge from you. And that somewhere, some level of your consciousness, they do blend, and your higher consciousness. Therefore, when you experience paradox or polarity, you are beginning to experience a blending with your higher consciousness. That is one idea. The other will be that it will add to the energy again that you are creating for certain incidences to occur within again, as we have said, the year 1986, which will afford your civilization as a whole the opportunity to choose between polarities, positive and negative, for very many ideas. You will be experiencing from that time forward. Mhm.

There will be, in your terms, a few more minutes of your time. Question.

Yes. In 1986, will there be an incident which will symbolize this choice? Can you elaborate on that?

Only that it will in some senses be sociological, political, and will afford your civilization... not in a negative sense, but in a metaphysical, spiritual sense, to begin to choose sides—positive, negative. Not in the sense of excluding the idea that each individual contains both positive and negative energy, but that they will begin to realize that what they term to be their perceptions, anger, and involvement regarding this incident will allow them to clear within themselves exactly where they stand within the vibration that represents the reality they have chosen.

Does that mean that, uh, socially speaking across the planet, we will observe a greater polarity in this sense?

Yes. Okay. Also understand, to some degree it will be, as you are seeing now as was described, much in the way of this idea of the connections that are now reaching the consciousness of the majority of individuals upon your planet within the idea that was expressed you call Live Aid. This is something upon which then the majority of individuals in your civilization have taken a stand. You follow me? One way or another. It is, in your terms—the pun intended—black and white situation. You follow me? Yeah. That will be one level of symbology. It will also be an opportunity for you, as you allow yourself to be creative, I will say, offer those individuals a chance to remove their physical starvation. They are also offering you a chance to remove your spiritual starvation. Thus, you blend together and experience both spiritual and physical abundance together. That will be the purpose that is being served.

So we should record this?

That is up to you. You may also travel to that country. You may also sit where you are. You may also simply continue with your life. You may do any of these things and still, in that way, be contributing.

That was actually a joke. Thank you.

Question. Has there been a similar connection like that already here on a smaller scale?

It is manifesting throughout your entire planet on smaller scales.

Would you comment on the communistic country as it relates to spirituality? Like, we're in pursuit of higherness. Does this sort of thing permeate throughout the...?

In a sense, so are they. But understand that the dichotomy you have created between your civilization's culture you call United States and what you term to be those communistic countries will simply be the opportunity to recognize how there can be a blending between the two. And that in that way, there is no need for the idea of experiencing only one way. You follow me? Recognize also that this split has to some degree been created at this time for the perpetuation of the removal of responsibility from the individual. "Oh, please take care of my responsibility and my fear for me, oh great government, because I am afraid of what that other government might do." All right. Thank you. I will continue to take responsibility for your life. Thanks.

Well, while we're on that subject, I want to ask about the—are you familiar with Arnold Patent?

Not by the mention of the vibration. Okay. How does it relate to you?

He's into the physical universe itself, all that is. Also, will take care of you from the viewpoint if you just turn loose, let it happen. You have pretty much touched on a lot of it here. That's why I keep coming back. And he does seminars. He was a lawyer many years and a big real estate investor, and he just quit. He just let it go. And his life did not change financially or anything, and a lot of people are doing it, and spiritually, he's really seemingly doing it. Whatever it is. And a number of people have been following him.

What are you finding? Following him, or simply doing what he's doing?

Yes. And he more or less has been, by invitation, going out into various cities around the US and doing seminars. And it's a very comforting sort of a thing that he's doing. Comforting in terms of lessening the struggle to get what you... Okay. Do you feel that information allows you to know and recognize your own power? It helps. It really does help. Does it offer you freedom of choice? Sure. Thank you.

Oh, could you comment on any... what is there to say? I guess nothing. Thank you.

Recognize we do not recommend in that way. Simply understand you have your own, as you say, measurements. The idea of knowing that the power is within you, that you have total freedom of choice, then you are doing, not following. That will be representative of the positive vibration. Okay. Well, basically to just forget the struggle and let it happen and turn off all of the garbage and sort of just flow.

All right. Recognize that many individuals upon your planet are beginning to recognize this idea. It does not stand out as something that, to us, is in a sense unique. So follow me.

Yeah, I just mostly wanted to know if you are familiar with him and the work that he's doing.

We are familiar with the work. There are many individuals who are in that way partaking of that vibration. Therefore, there is no need for them to stand out because the nature of the vibration is such that those that do it have no desire to stand out. Follow me?

Yeah, okay. Well, I guess I could see... make a same judgment very much... well, I can make a statement like... have for people in this room? Oh, yes. Go ahead. It's... that was just the point I mention. All right. After you, what it might be fun. Thanks for the opportunity. Thank you.

Thank you all for the opportunity of the sharing of our consciousness with yours, by your willing allowance. It is always by your willing allowance and the unconditional love you create for yourselves that we are then allowed by you to share of that vibration which, to us, is a very loving gift from you.