Mutability



### Mutability and the Nature of Time

Mutability is your willingness to allow transformation to occur within you and hence round and about you with regard to the creations you formulate and give yourself to experience as that which you call your physical life. That which you call your physical realm. You might understand that mutability is instantaneous, instantaneous, infinite in one sense of the word and constant.

Recognize that you are creating the idea you call time and that your own what you call scientists have begun to recognize that time is what you call discontinuous. It is discreet in a sense moment. Not one unbroken stream though it will vibrate in your understanding of the term vibration at such a rate of speed as it will seem to be unbroken seem to be fluid in that way. Smooth, continuous. Recognize that it is continuous. Recognize that it is discrete in a sense particles, vibrations of moments, existing high rate of speed. In between the moments you recognize as reality are other realities sharing in a sense the same space.

You exist with regard to parallel alternate dimensions of reality in between each other's moments of reality taking turns if you wish to put it colloquially existing in different frequencies for the purpose of separating out the different ideas so that you may experience them discreetly uniquely. You follow me? Yes. Yes. Now uniquely. You follow me? Yes. Yes. Now recognize that because you are creating time in this way, projecting it from yourself in this way, experiencing its flow in this way, recognize that you are innocent. Therefore, creating yourself, innocent. Therefore, creating yourself, your entire physical universe over and over and over and over and over and over again. Every one of these moments that speed by you so rapidly carries with it a complete and total different universe than the one that you experienced a moment before. Do you all follow that? Yes. Complete and total different universe.

Any idea of continuity from one moment to the next is totally at your discretion. Is totally within your control. Is totally within the idea you have of yourself. Is totally within the purpose you have chosen to experience at any particular moment in time. As you create, die and with regard to any particular purposes you have chosen to experience with regard to the idea of interacting within your entire life framework as it relates not only to your own ideas of growth and collectivity, but also that which you share with all the other beings sharing the reality with you. In other words, your agreement with mass consciousness and what you have to offer in your form of unique service will also determine the idea you call continuity from one moment to the next. This has given rise to the ideas you call evolution because you sense within a time framework a progression from a beginning to an end. From a state of less to a state of more, from a state of worse to a state of better or vice versa if you wish. But recognize that all of these ideas of progression are completely and totally hinged upon the idea of time as you create it.

Thus, as you now within your transformational state of being from third to fourth density, as you would say, from old to new age awareness, from separation to integration of consciousness, you now begin to realize that you are in fact creating your physical reality. And as such, space and time goes right along with that. And if you are now beginning to consciously realize that you are creating time, then you are beginning to realize that time space and the materiality upon which it hinges upon which is hinged the idea of time and space and materiality also in that way is becoming been consciously recognized as a product of the projection of what you believe about yourself according to what you have chosen to experience. Therefore, time is now beginning to be recognized by your collective form of integrated consciousness, not so much as time, but as timing, which is quite a different thing.

The events in your life, the events of your life, the events which you are that are your life are a product of timing. It is a product of the idea of interacting with the other consciousnesses within your dimensional reality that you have agreed to share certain experiences with. And thus when those paths cross, it is the idea you call timing. It will occur because you are creating it within the framework you call time. But time does not control the idea of what occurs in your life. Ignore the idea you call coincidence, which is not accidental, but is a product of the timing of the unfoldment of the path you have chosen within synchronous harmony to all the unfoldments of all the other paths of all the other individuals within your dimensional reality that you share this experience with. This is timing. You have timing with every individual. You have timing within yourself as well to experience certain ideas to unfold in certain ways to give yourself the opportunity to fulfill your timing with everyone else.

Recognize many times that when you give yourself opportunities in a negative fashion, as you would call them, a negative fashion, unpleasant experience, you will many times because you have chosen to be here and now this transformational point within your history, make no mistake about it, there is a difference to this time from other times in your history. You are now collecting yourselves together consciously to recognize your full control over the creation of the cycles that you experience within your lives. And because you have chosen to be here now at this particular time frame makes a difference according to what you are experiencing as opposed to what that would have meant 3, four, 5, 10 lifetimes ago. Recognize that even what you turn to be negative experiences at this particular time will 99% of the time be for the purpose of allowing you opportunity to integrate rapidly certain portions of your personality, certain portions of your consciousness so that you will have all of the abilities and all of the tools and all of the consciousness and all of the awareness necessary for you to be able to take that step through the transformation consciously by allowing yourself to face different portions of yourself that represent the limitations of the past cycles that you have created which are no longer existing for your consciousness. These limitations are dissolving. You no longer need them as a tool. Thus, you are giving yourself the opportunity to experience both the positive and negative energies within yourselves very rapidly as individuals and as societies to allow yourselves in a sense to experience what you have chosen to experience that much more quickly. To be able to fulfill the timing of being able to step through the transformational doorway to use an analogy with everyone else that will be there as well. You all follow me? Yes.

We will at this time then extend discussion statement question.

***

### **Participant Experiences: Throat Energy, Allergies, and Synchronicity**

**Participant 1:** I have a few statements, but the first one is that I'm really happy that um I created the first Wednesday night where it's the first Wednesday night where you um that I remember anyway that you opened with some information rather than asking questions and I I really enjoy that. So, I wanted to thank you and myself for that and everyone else here. I did my second emotion. And I also wanted to um talk about an experience I had on last Friday night. I was with Erica and we were um meditating and I started feeling this energy through my body and in my throat area and it was like I wanted to say something or make some sound and I yet I didn't feel like I had any words to say and later I talked with Erica about it. She said well possibly I could work with just the idea of making sounds then with that feeling in my throat rather than you know feeling like I have to be searching for some words or something. Um and um then uh the guy came home that lives next door to me and uh for the last few days he's been clearing his throat a lot like coughing a lot and clearing his throat and I was feeling that well I was creating some message for myself in that with this feeling in my throat and feeling like there was something to come out and yet not knowing what it was.

**Bashar:** All right very good. You're recognizing how you can begin to allow every idea within your reality to serve as a symbol for you. Nothing comes to you by accident. Mhm. Nothing, right? No matter how minute you may judge it to be. It is only the judgment that makes it minute. Mhm. And beneath notice, everything is a spontaneous choreography and is a part of the choreography and is a part of the blending of the symbology which you reflect back to yourself to represent the idea of becoming aware of all the different levels of your consciousness. Mhm. Very good.

**Participant 1:** Yeah. So, I was feeling that that that would be a good idea to when I feel that energy in my throat and feeling like that there's something to come out to just make those sounds and see what happens with that. Um, also, um, the other night I was sleeping and then I I woke up and I was like kind of in some middle stage, half asleep and half awake kind of. And, um, I heard this just this sound. I thought I'd left the tape recorder cord or something on, but I didn't. It was just like one sound and then that disappeared. And then I heard like a whole orchestra just play one tone that sounded like a whole gathering of a whole orchestra, one tone. And I felt like that was my signature. My signature. My tone. And that was fun. That's it for now.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant 2:** On that same line, um, it's been real interesting. Uh we talked about my allergies and stuff before and I pretty much felt like I had kicked it. Uh recently I've begun to have those feelings again. However, I'm feeling much much more above it now. All right. As opposed to being say in it. Uh but the throat thing that Pamela's mentioned, I'm getting that too. And is there something happening? I know this time of the year it's you know they say over the video the ozone layer is something something and but um does that have any significance?

**Bashar:** I understand at this time that along with the idea of the accelerated momentum which will allow there to be a temperature rise in many individuals which they will feel as feverish. One of the other manifestations of the idea of collecting your consciousness together will be to some degree the ideal you call the clearing of the throat to allow you the opportunity to explore that you will be able soon to allow yourself to create a sense of conviction for that which you give voice to. You follow me? Mhm. You will be allowing yourself to stand in the center of your beliefs. You will know that what you have to say is worth sharing. Follow me.

**Participant 2:** Seeing that. Yes, that's very useful. Thank you.

***

### **Health, Diet, and Transformation (Jean’s Session)**

**Participant 3 (Jean):** Question for sure guys. Uh uh a few minutes ago you were pointing the uh channel's left hand to the left. Were you perceiving uh the large generating crystal in the other room?

**Bashar:** Were blending with the energy of an individual. A very good move over here instead of on the other side of the room. No, it's for Jean. Nice.

**Jean:** I'm going a little bit down. Uh, how can sick? I came to see...

**Bashar:** May I remind you that what you have come to see is yourself. You have not paid yourself a visit lately. The doctor in you is now able to pay you a visit. You follow me. You're going to be making a house call upon yourself. Do you like your doctor? You the doctor in you. Your healer. Do you like your healer?

**Jean:** No.

**Bashar:** No. Does not sound very convincing. What do you think about your healer?

**Jean:** Uh got disconnected.

**Bashar:** All right. Perhaps she was right. Perhaps she was busy. Now, why do you think there was a disconnection? All right. Allow me to suggest to suggest that you may have been exploring some of the ideas in and of itself. Now this is only a part of it but in of itself of the idea of sustaining health of forming a need to sustain health through a particular type of transformation that you hadn't created for yourself. Now recognize when you form a need to sustain health you automatically disconnect the healer from you. Health is what you are automatically all the time. When you form a need to be healthy, you are reinforcing the belief that you fear you will not be healthy. It is that belief which will create the reality. You follow me? Yeah. No, you have simply told in that way by forming a need to be healthy, you have told your healer to beg a hike. Do not judge yourself. This will be a part of your process at this time again as we were saying which was primarily directed for you Hi. At this time, positive or negative, Hi. At this time, positive or negative, and many of the negatives that you deem to be negative energy will be for the purpose of allowing yourself to quickly purge yourself of certain ideas to come face to face with portions of yourself, of your consciousness in much more rapid succession. So that you can allow yourself to pass through the symbology quicker than you normally would have. To be at a certain place at a certain time so that you will be able to manifest certain actions within your life by then giving yourself the tools by already having gone through the experience you are now having. You follow me? Recognize this will not manifest much longer. Recognize it can I say transform longer. Recognize it can I say transform from anywhere between now and the next 3 weeks according to your own discretion. Allow me to suggest. Well, all right. What have you been doing? According to the idea you call doing? According to the idea you call diet.

**Jean:** Oh, I'm not very much into a diet. I just uh just the general term diet. Not a strict sense of the word. Diet meaning what you eat. Yeah. Just food that one takes. I mean for me diet is is having the proper food combining and you know...

**Bashar:** All right well have you been feeding yourself grain fruit vegetables and what vegetables?

**Jean:** Lettuce tomato radishes cucumber zucchini beets and cabbages and onions and about...

**Bashar:** All right what fruits?

**Jean:** Mostly grapes and a bit of apples for oranges and peaches.

**Bashar:** Why peaches?

**Jean:** Because of the season and they are sweet.

**Bashar:** Sweet. But I can answer all these questions, but the thing is that about 10 days go ago, I almost left the body. I've been very very sick. How closely have you been following the idea of your diet?

**Jean:** Not very much because uh see something happened about a month ago. I came upon a product which is called Baldi Putty which is totally natural minerals from Utah. And I bought a bottle. So just to show you, you know, maybe you can't perceive the formula. Um this has been the heater for a lot of people and people who have cancer leukemia says that after a few months on the product they they don't have cancer anymore or...

**Bashar:** Why do you feel the need for the ingestion of that product?

**Jean:** Well, the body is made of mineral and yes, but do you not feel you are giving yourself the natural minerals within your diet?

**Jean:** No.

**Bashar:** Why not?

**Jean:** Because on our vegetable today is are too deprived. The soy which is grown in is too deprived of natural minerals. So all...

**Bashar:** All right, here we begin to see the idea we are expressing to you. You are trying too hard to make sure you stay healthy. You follow me? You're beginning to form within your consciousness the worry that you are not getting what you need. You follow me? Mhm. You have transformed from a little bit more relaxed state to a little bit less relaxed state about the intake of your minerals, vitamins, and so forth. The idea of choosing to supplement what you have is a reflection of feeling you are not getting what you need. That belief can deprive you of what you need. You follow me?

**Jean:** Well, I was not feeling what I needed because of what how I felt in my body. My body had a lot of pain.

**Bashar:** All right. But understand that your body is a reflection of a belief that exists before the physical fact of the pain. It is an opportunity for you in that way. All right. Yes, you sense the idea of mineralness. You were allowing yourself to communicate and sense out the idea of adding supplement. But recognize there is still another portion of this idea which is serving a purpose. And in that way you will find that it is not so much the supplement that will be required as it will be the further exploration of the reasoning behind the purpose of the creation of this idea by allowing yourself more opportunity to communicate with those portions of your consciousness that are coming up during this particular process that you call ill health or disease. Now, have you in your recollection had a difference in your dreams during this time?

**Jean:** Yes. Yes. Um, if I've been sick, I had a lot of uh different types of dreams and I had the angels of death came to to see me because they told me I had to leave the body and I had to fight for it. All right. But but what the thing is that my sickness was totally uh uh unexpected. I was feeling great. I was feeling totally attuned and finally...

**Bashar:** This is why we say it is more the nature of a transformational experience rather than a true depletion. Follow me.

**Jean:** Yeah. And then in a few days, you know, my in my old life crumbled and then I was having...

**Bashar:** All right. Now, horrible dream. All right. All right. Now, first of all, allow me to suggest that your life has not crumbled. The dreams are not horrible except as you judge your life to be crumbling. As you judge the dreams to be horrible, allow them to serve the purpose for which you are creating them. You are creating them, you know. Okay? Allow yourself to be served by the purposes you are creating. Allow yourself to recognize the idea of the communication with the portion of your consciousness you call angel of death does not always have to be what you term to be physically literal. You are yes you are dying and you are being reborn in a sense. You are going through a type of transformation that is quite literally the rearrangement of every cellular structure in your body. You are not when you come out of this going to be even physically the you that you were before you went into it. You are going to be somewhat different. You are going to be of another vibration. You are walking through a doorway. You are walking through a similar type of tunnel to that which is experienced in that way as you call mentality. Why is during the idea you call the death process. But there is a light at the end of that tunnel. And in stepping out of the tunnel into that light, you will be stepping into the center of your own light, the center of your own vibration, the source of yourself as that light. And it will be a different vibration. It will be a different rate of vibration. You will be stepping into a different idea, reality. You will be different. You will recognize how many more things you can accomplish in that state. You follow me? Yeah. You will die. You will give birth to yourself in another form. In a sense, it will still in a sense look like you. You will be perceived by other individuals to be somewhat different. Allow yourself to give validity to the experiences within the dreams. You are having real conversations with consciousness within yourself and outside yourself. But it is mostly the knowingness within yourself of your own transformation in a sense through a type of death. It is a transformational experience. You are completely realigning yourself. You are changing your vibrational signature in a sense. You follow me? Yeah. How do you feel?

**Jean:** That's true.

**Bashar:** The more you allow yourself to align with that new vibration rather than resist it, the less tension, the less friction there will be between the corporeal you now and the vibration that represents the you in the future. It is only the tension, the resistance and the friction between your judgment of the vibration you are now and the vibration you are becoming that causes the disease. Disease is caused in that way by friction of variable vibrational rates. The more you allow yourself to identify with the more accelerated rate, the less friction there will be between the different rates. You will be synchronizing. There will be no need for the tension and friction within the physical form to manifest in that way. You follow me? You will not be in pain. Stiff and I'll say rigored. You follow me? Yes. You are creating your own form of rigger mortise with the pain, the stiffening. Allow yourself to be malleable. Allow yourself to be energy. Allow yourself to simply be a collective pattern of vibrations. Sense the direction you are walking in. Sense the light at the end of the tunnel. Begin to identify with that light and you will begin to identify with the source of yourself and you will be begin to identify with the future you and you will be the future you in which there is no idea of disease and follow me.

**Jean:** Yes. Thank you. Thank you.

***

### **Vibrations, Parallel Universes, and Time Jumps**

**Participant 4:** Question. Yes. Uh I wanted to uh make a statement that the channel held his hand out. I was feeling vibrations and my whole body was shaking again and it's like at night I sometimes when I lie down I put my hands together my all my fingers like I explained before when my body really vibrates. Yes. And it'll just keep vibrating and vibrating. I was getting the same thing from the channel is you were experiencing a similar type of feel.

**Bashar:** It was in a sense the creation of a revolving energy vortex. Mhm. It will be in a sense the creation of an isolation field to allow there to be within the vortex the opportunity to unlock from one reality, reorient yourself and then re-enter physical mess into another reality. You follow me?

**Participant 4:** Yes, I do. Thank you. Thank you.

**Participant 5:** Question. Does somebody have anything? Go ahead. Go ahead. Okay. Um, well, uh, Jean's, uh, your your discussion with Jean's a hard act to follow. That was very, very nice, by the way. Um, I had a neat experience today. An experience that I've I've had somewhat before, but I didn't understand what it what was happening before. There's that one where um well in this particular case I came out of a um movie theater and everything was different. I mean everything looked the same but there was that feeling of everything different and I knew that I had uh shifted to a parallel universe for myself. It was it was so blatantly obvious to me that that that was the case that uh I just went around with this wondrous um uh experience of experiencing it all freshly again. Oh good. Yeah, that was a lot of fun. Um, I wanted to ask you a question about time and your experiencing of time. You said that you don't experience time as we do, and I'm looking at that uh from two two angles. One being the concept of I know that you on your planet don't mainly uh put your attention on the passage of time. Um, however, I'm wondering if you experience time for the most part or 100% uh in the same way that we do in terms of experiencing time, the sequential focusing of from instant to instant or do you actually skip instance in time and go to another time altogether on occasion for yourselves?

**Bashar:** On occasion, yes. Understand? We are however because we do project ourselves as you do into third-dimensional materiality. We are aware of the idea of the passage of time in terms of what you turn to be the days. You follow me? Mhm. The rotation of our planet about our central star. You follow me? Yeah. This we are aware of. But simply to us, what happens within that time is much more malleable and not quite so regulated as your own scheduling.

**Participant 5:** Yeah. Uh when you use the word you, you're referring to um generic you because it doesn't necessarily occur for me.

**Bashar:** Yes. Yeah. Your civilization in general.

**Participant 5:** Good. Um then when you do make your time jumps, is this something you do deliberately or is it does it just happen sometimes? Uh and you look at it to see what happened or why it uh is it such that um I know it's a tricky thing. Let me ask you this. Do you have clocks on your planet?

**Bashar:** Not really. Okay. We do have the ability to synchronize with the idea you call chronometers of any civilization. Uhhuh.

**Participant 5:** I'm just trying to get an idea of what you would experience or what your conscious understanding would be if you were to make a a time shift that was perhaps not deliberate because you shifted from one day to another.

**Bashar:** All right. Understand that we realize all of them on some level of our consciousness are deliberate. Yeah, of course. Therefore, any which do not appear immediately consciously deliberate will simply be experienced with delight for the surprise we have created for ourselves. Sure. Uhhuh. Then it will also blend into the idea of having been consciously deliberate to begin with anyway.

**Participant 5:** Okay, I understand that. I guess what my question was is how do you recognize that that time shift has occurred when it has occurred in the um consciously undeliberate or non-deliberate way.

**Bashar:** It will seem as we allow ourselves to make a comparison as if there is missing time. You follow me?

**Participant 5:** Yeah. Would it be like you're you're in daylight and then suddenly you're in darkness? Would it be that sometimes?

**Bashar:** Not usually that abrupt, but it can be.

**Participant 5:** Yeah, of course. That would be an extreme example hypothetical perhaps. Okay. Would it also be that uh you might be in one place and then find yourself in another place?

**Bashar:** Uhhuh.

***

### **Centering Emotions and Appreciating Pain**

**Bashar:** Also, you may realize that laughing and crying are both centering. All right. When right. When you experience the crying, it is a release. It is a centering. Understand? But because you can have tears of joy and laugh even when you are sad with an irony, you can recognize that both have the same mechanism. The sadness, the crying is simply centering relative to what you deem to be a negative situation. Laughing is centering relative to what you deem to be a positive situation. They are both the same mechanism. Simply the polarity of each other. Therefore, recognize that any crying that you may do is the allowance of release, is the allowance of centering, and does not take you far away from the integration of your consciousness. All right.

**Participant 6:** Okay. Thank you. I was feeling good about crying in a way. Good. Thank you. Go ahead.

**Participant 7:** Okay. Um for the first time I've experienced this week um the difference in the level of where I'm at and where the pain that I feel is uh such that I have been able to actually appreciate the pain and it not be a mental computation.

**Bashar:** And how does that feel?

**Participant 7:** It feels great. It's like um it's like I'm totally in in control of my body and not my body's uh pulling me down every time it wants to feel a little pain.

**Bashar:** And is this a part of what's happening?

**Participant 7:** Of course.

**Bashar:** How could it be otherwise?

**Participant 7:** Well, I've been uh since then that I've been working at that for a long time, but uh I guess in my elation of having this happen, you have stopped working and started doing apparently but it's a very it's it's neat. It's Thank you. Very good. Thank you for the blending and integrating of your consciousness and therefore the creation of effortlessness.

***

### **Channeling, Singing, and Voice Mediumship**

**Participant 8:** Question. I have um question. Well, I have let's see a statement. Last um Wednesday, someone came to the door and from a hamburger place while the session was going on and asked if anybody here had ordered some uh chili sauce for a hamburger. And I thought that was kind of cute to have someone no one had ever come to the door before like that while the session was going on from kind of like the outside world, you know, coming. It was like a blending, you know. Nice. It was fun. So, he had this address that I don't think anybody here ordered it, but it was it was kind of fun. And also, um I maybe you could assist me. Well, no, I know you could assist me with this and I could assist myself, too. Thank you. But um I go through this analyzation in my mind about the idea of channeling and mediumship and um and then we talked about the idea of the essence with me and channeling this essence and then I get and then I start doubting what that's all about and I start doubting myself cuz it's something I really want to do.

**Bashar:** Whatever it is you say that I Do you doubt your singing less?

**Participant 8:** Do I doubt my Say that again. Do you doubt your singing less?

**Bashar:** Yes, that's true. I do. I do. I don't doubt my singing at all right now.

**Bashar:** All right. That is channeling. You may make a blend between the two ideas. Allow the power of your singing to blend into the power of your channeling. It is much the same.

**Participant 8:** Okay. Yes. No, I understand that. See, I'm quick to like that's not that's like not enough or something. Um Oh, all right. Well, do you know, you probably know what I'm saying. I mean, what I'm this is what I want to deal with is that I really want to do voice mediumship in some form is what I feel like I want. Oh, what? And when you said that I'd be channeling this essence and and um that it would be real obvious to me, you said. Guys. Um, so that's still true that it will be real obvious.

**Bashar:** You can make it not obvious. You have total free choice. You can make it not obvious. Therefore, allow me to suggest. For now, it might be hidden in your singing. When you blend the two, it might become more obvious. Also realize you have begun to explore the idea of the control that you have over your physical universe and this also is part and parcel to leading you to being able to allow yourself to blend in that way to follow me.

**Participant 8:** Mhm. I do follow you yet I feel this I feel like what I desire also is voice mediumship and that somehow maybe I haven't chosen that or something but I can choose whatever I want at any time. Can I go ahead? I mean, do you wish to do it right now?

**Bashar:** Do what? What were we talking about?

**Participant 8:** Voice comedian. Yes. Yes. Are you sure?

**Bashar:** Yes. All right. Then relax. Then relax. Okay. Imagine yourself as you are when you are singing. Do you feel the power moving through you? Your power. Your ability to express.

**Participant 8:** Yes. No. Baby. Yes.

**Bashar:** Do not go to sleep on me. Yes. All right. Recognize that there is always within you the connection to any idea level consciousness essence that exists as a part of your own whole beingness of all that is. You have identifications with certain types of vibration. Allow yourself to identify with those vibrations now in the same way that you identify the particular vibrational patterns of any song that you like. Can you feel that particular vibrational pattern? The essence.

**Participant 8:** Yeah, I feel like laughing.

**Bashar:** Oh, go ahead. That is channeling. You are channeling right now. In that way, you are channeling the vibrational pattern. Very good. No. Is there along with this laughter something that you know you wish to say? You can be totally conscious. You can even think about what it is that is coming through. But you know that what is coming through is something that comes from the channeling. Even though you might be off to the side thinking about it and be totally conscious of your surroundings, let the feeling flow in the same way it does when you sing. Is there any information that wishes to come along with the laughter?

**Participant 8:** Um, I'm happy to be here.

**Bashar:** All right, that is always good for a start. What else? [Applause] Now, some of this stuff seems real silly.

**Participant 8:** Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Very good. It's like It was a beautiful day today, wasn't it?

**Bashar:** Very good. What about this one?

**Participant 8:** Oh, Bammy Poo, you're on the right track.

**Bashar:** Is that silly enough?

**Participant 8:** No, I like that. I mean, that's silly and I like it, too.

**Bashar:** Yes, it is just silly enough for you. No. May I suggest All right, pull yourself out of the channeling a little bit. May I suggest that what you have just channeled for yourself is the idea that you don't have to take this so seriously?

**Participant 8:** Yeah, you're right. Thank you. Yeah, you know. Now, how simple was that to find out? That's really simple.

**Bashar:** Yes. Thank you, Pamela. Yeah, that's what I was looking for was just I mean I know it was simple, but I needed was like I desired a kind of a trigger, a kind of a something to reflect back to me how simple it was. Thank you for allowing us to be of service in that way.

***

### **Space Travel, Motherships, and Global Events**

**Participant 9:** Okay. Thank you. Question. Yes. Again, on the subject of time, um you said that travel through space is the same as travel through time. Yes. That doesn't refer to the travel on the skin of space.

**Bashar:** Right. In a sense, it is just that the idea you call the skin of space is created by having many intervals in between one point and another. Of course. Yeah. Even your own motion through a room is the recreating of yourself instantaneously over and over and over again. Right. Okay. There are miniature, if you wish, hyper jumps in between those moments. Right. Technically, uh that is of course true. Um when we view it from the standpoint of uh the earth viewpoint of what time is, it's not really going through time. But I understand what you're saying.

**Participant 9:** Okay, great. That clears it up. Another another question. Um people have been talking about about vibrating and I guess I started maybe two years ago on occasions lying in bed and it felt like I was in an earthquake. It was about that frequency. He was it was yes I and I that doesn't happen very often and I thought well this is weird because it's you know it's it's my imagination or whatever it was and I I kind of judged it at that time but I I think um I came to the conclusion recently recently correctly and I wish you would uh speak about this that it was I was actually tuning into the earth crystal vibration.

**Bashar:** Yes. Seven one half cycles per second. That is why it was so low.

**Participant 9:** Good. That's what I was going to say. I was counting and it seemed just about 7 and a half per second. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Very good. Then thank you.

**Participant 10:** Question for sure. Yes. Do um there's a space civilization that lands at Tariq in Idle Wild. Is that correct? Do you mean all the time?

**Bashar:** Yeah, regular.

**Participant 10:** Do you mean all the time? Yeah, regular basis. How regular?

**Bashar:** We do not have schedules, you know.

**Participant 10:** Well, fairly frequent. Maybe once a week. Why? Because I want to go there and see them. No, no, no, no, no. Why do they land? Oh, I know. That's what I want to know. I want to ask you if there is in fact somebody who does that and if it's the pleades or who it is.

**Bashar:** Not with that frequency.

**Participant 10:** Not with that frequency. No. What do you mean what frequency? It wouldn't be the one. Oh, the pleades aren't landing at either. No.

**Bashar:** Also, any landings that may take place there do not happen with that frequency as well. Not once a week.

**Participant 10:** Oh, I see. So, when would be a good time to go there and see see a spaceship.

**Bashar:** Can you get there by tomorrow morning?

**Participant 10:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** Good. What time in the morning?

**Participant 10:** 6:30 a.m.

**Bashar:** Really? Okay. Do you believe me?

**Participant 10:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** Why?

**Participant 10:** I don't know cuz I think you know more about this stuff than I do.

**Bashar:** Oh, really? Yeah. How come? Oh, God. Well, realize that those individuals are not connected to our civilization. Why would we be so nosy as to know what they are up to?

**Participant 10:** Well, maybe you keep track of different...

**Bashar:** Oh, in a sense. Yes. Okay. Be wherever your instincts tell you to be. In the area you call Malibu. September 6th of your time at approximately 5:45 a.m.

**Participant 10:** All right. Okay. Thank you very much. 5:45 a.m.

**Participant 11:** Question. I'll go with you. Uh while we're on that, uh just was there uh some sort of situation over China?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant 11:** Um would you would you elaborate on that just a little?

**Bashar:** There was what you told him to be. Mothership. Yeah. What else do you need to know?

**Participant 11:** Everything. Anything that we're going to pick your brain on this one. I really like for you to tell us a little bit more.

**Bashar:** Only briefly. It was for the purpose of allowing the energy consciousness of that civilization, that country as you would call it, to spur themselves a little bit more forward within the idea of the blending and balancing that they will enact out in the near future as their energy will act in some way, shape or form as the beginning of a blending of different types of cultural ideas. Whereas here to for they have been remaining separate and then can in some senses allow themselves to act as mediators between your civilization and the civilization upon your planet you call Soviet Union. It will be reflective of the idea of certain entities they are exploring with an integration of themselves to allow there to be a blending within their culture of different types of cultural ideas. Follow me.

**Participant 11:** Yes. Were there not any type of uh danger uh invol any energies uh involving um Did you hear of any?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant 11:** What is it about? Well, we heard that that they were going to push the button, the nuclear warfare button.

**Bashar:** Nope.

**Participant 11:** Okay. What is the facts on that? Well, they were not going to push it. Well, the fact is because Well, we're we're wondering why the mother ship arrived. Yeah, that was you just described to you the reason for the arrival of the mother ship. Right. I understand that. Uh this what I just said was the reason that was given to us previous to that. So uh what you're saying contradicts that a previous reason. I'm wondering why the previous reason was given.

**Bashar:** Understand? At this time it was for the I'll say purpose of pushing your buttons. Okay, that that worked. Do you still believe you will create nuclear annihilation?

**Participant 11:** Not at all.

**Bashar:** Thank you. No. No, we don't. But um it just seems strange that that would put such you know this massive mother ship on the whole bed. Oh, big massive mother ship. Big deal.

**Participant 11:** Well, it is a big deal that you're down here. Why? Hell, I want to see a ship. We don't see him that often. Like a new toy to play with. Believe me, we're going to be there September 6th. It's fun for us for sure. It's really fun for us. It is. All right. Now understand the idea connections with the idea you call pushing the button were only in some senses. It was not literal. The idea of that idea has already moved itself out of your mass consciousness as of approximately 5 to 6 years ago. Allow me to say that there is still yes those ideas floating around and there is consideration within that country of that idea. The purpose of the arrival of that mother ship was also at that time to reaffirm reaffirm that they did not have to think about the idea that they were on their own right track in creating the idea of the balance in the blending. There was the I say exploration within the leaders of the country at that time of exploring the dichotomy of peace versus war. And that in a sense then makes it seem as if the mothership arrived just in time to prevent the intervention of the idea of pushing the button. But really, it was not being considered in all that much seriousness, but was being recognized as the beginning of a choice that they have now allowed themselves the choice to know that they do not need to push the button because they are on the right track with the idea of blending the different cultural ideas within their own culture. You follow me?

**Participant 11:** Yes. This is how it connects. What did the mothership then do? Did it just make an appearance or did it actually do something to uh you know...

**Bashar:** There was communication. There was contact with several individuals mentally.

***

### **Spirit Guides, Spirit Teachers, and Future Selves**

**Participant 12:** Great question. Yes. I want to ask you a question about spirit teachers. All right. I heard today that uh each person has one spiritual teacher whereas each person may have many spirit guides. Each person has one spirit teacher and I heard today that most people have not met their spirit teacher and uh if this is true I was wondering if you could do you mean physical or non-physical?

**Bashar:** Non-physical understand in a sense you have not even really met your guides nor really will you ever in a sense understand that the purpose of spirit teaching of spirit guides is to allow you to teach yourself and thus they will usually remain quite anonymous you follow me anonymous in a sense they will lead you to yourself what you may then deem to be communication with your spirit guide you will find only be communication with another portion of your in consciousness.

**Participant 12:** Right? That's what I was thinking what really was happening. However, uh is it true then that there is uh each each spirit guide is really another portion of your own inner being or your own greater self in a sense.

**Bashar:** Although there are in your vernacular because of the idea you create of separation between the consciousnesses of one person to another many spirit guides who you would recognize as other personalities.

**Participant 12:** I see. Uh does each is it true that each person has a spirit guide? A spirit teacher in a sense. Could you possibly tell me who my spirit teacher is?

**Bashar:** What would a name do for you?

**Participant 12:** Well, I it would facilitate some communication with that being. It would more further define.

**Bashar:** Can you not feel the vibration of that being?

**Participant 12:** I haven't really reached out for it.

**Bashar:** Why not?

**Participant 12:** Well, I just discovered this information today and I wanted to explore it a little bit with you.

**Bashar:** Go ahead. Understand? You may explore it with yourself. Yes. Recognize the vibration that that idea represents to you. For now, simply use spirit teacher. Now you may find that portions of the spirit teacher will be portions of your own consciousness. But you can come into touch with levels of the consciousness of the spirit teacher that will seem to be other consciousness as well. Right? Allow yourself to simply explore the feelings for now. Uhhuh. Always now recognize they being of in your terms non-materiality always know when you begin to identify with their vibration it will be just the same as if you shouted out their name. Right. Mhm. All right. Right. Thank you. Thank you.

**Participant 12:** So is the spirit teacher is the idea of a spirit teacher some way different from the idea of a spirit guide?

**Bashar:** In a sense, you may recognize that there may be really in a sense a spirit teacher for a family of consciousness. Okay. There will be aspects of the spirit teacher given to each individual. Thus, it will seem each individual has one spirit teacher. In many ways, actually, many individuals have the same spirit teacher simply fragmented to be represented by one particular individual at a time.

**Participant 12:** Got it. Okay. For sure. Nice.

***

### **Creative Cycles, Resistance, and Service**

**Participant 13:** Um, I would like to I want to share a lot of joy. I've been having a lot of fun. Great time. Oh, thank you. Yeah, thank you. And I wanted to share just spread it out. All right. I've been having a real ball, all facets of life. Pretty pretty much completely disconnected myself from all of the economics and the realities and the way people live and and living a pure spirit of play. Uh doing whatever I feel like doing at any time. It's been a lot of fun. Thank you. And uh one thing I'd like to address a little bit uh just to look at in a way I feel well not even in a way I feel I have a lot of my own answers but it's nice to share it and look at. All right. Um there are a lot of creative physical universe creative cycles that I am uh I feel are not progressing because the timing is not right for them. Like I have scripts that are sitting here and books that are sitting there but there is a desire to share a lot of this.

**Bashar:** Very good. And uh that is what will bring them into material reality. Yeah. Recognize that keeping it to yourself, it will only manifest in you and not in your world. Recognize that if you know these ideas are real for you, then act as if they are real for everyone in a sense. In other words, if it were real for you, who would you be talking to? What would you be saying? How would you be forming connections? What would you be going about doing if it were already real to you? Therefore, make it real by doing these things. Act as if it already is for you a foregone conclusion.

**Participant 13:** That's real nice. I appreciate that. Thank you. Well, I do find resistance. I think that we've talked about this before that I have a I feel well you have to write the scripts and you have to write the treatments and I have resistance to doing those mechanical actions to sitting down.

**Bashar:** Then find someone who enjoys it and dictate it.

**Participant 13:** Uhhuh. I don't know. I don't feel it comes out quite as well as composing it and creating it myself.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Then you have your answer.

**Participant 13:** That's true. Now you really know what means more to you. Do it yourself. Yep. I will do it. Thank you. There's there's still a resistance though that I want to I want to uh perhaps you do not think it is worthwhile.

**Bashar:** Nope. Nope. That's I think it's very worthwhile. It might be a little bit of that. What? Damn lazy. Do you feel all right?

**Participant 13:** What? Damn lazy. Do you feel all right? Damn lazy about doing the mechanic. All right. And I've had that feeling for some time.

**Bashar:** And I've had that feeling for some time. Understand? You will not be lazy, but you will be excited if you feel that when you are writing your project, it is already going to get made.

**Participant 13:** Ah, very nice. Yeah, it's the the doubt on the market, the creation of it that write it as if you are writing it for someone who is definitely going to make it.

**Bashar:** Lovely. You follow me?

**Participant 13:** Yeah. And get more excitement on that.

**Bashar:** Yes. If you know it is going to be made, then what will stop you from writing? If someone walked up to you and said, "Here is this money. We are going to make it. Now, will you go home and give us another draft?" Do you think wild horses would be able to stop you?

**Participant 13:** No, no, he wouldn't. They wouldn't. I mean, I'd enjoy them as they went by, but they wouldn't you.

**Bashar:** Very good. Create, create, create the entire attitude of the atmosphere in which that idea is real.

**Participant 13:** That's lovely. Thank you for assisting me to rekindle it. Thank you. Nice. I've uh contacted the uh um group in LA, which all right. Um you might say they are the physical side of spirit guides. Okay. Right. I think I turned the lady off when I called, but um perhaps because you are not dead yet. Thank you very much. Uh but I have uh somehow I've been to I've been playing with this for several years for some reason. Playing with what? With I've identified with old people who get into complaining and thinking of death. Identify from the viewpoint of of bringing them out of that and making it real light. And in other words, you wish to fulfill one of the functions of Earth server.

**Bashar:** Okay, you got it. Well, the fact is what what's happening is like I even want to do a commercial on it.

**Participant 13:** All right, go right ahead. Well, that's what I'm asking you. Can you give me a little help and a direction or cuz it looks obviously you do not believe that you can do it.

**Bashar:** Well, the obvious thing is uh I have I've already reached some opposition the fact that I have not done anything like this before.

**Participant 13:** So what?

**Bashar:** So one moment is not connected to the next. What has before got to do with now? So you feel it's worthwhile. If you are of the vibration to be of service in that way, go and be of service. You perhaps turned them off because they understood you were not yet turned on. Not yet turned on.

**Participant 13:** I think when I use the word I've sort of been studying some physics recognize that is not the idea that stands in your way. You are simply unsure. Listen to how you are describing it. Yeah. To anyone who was already doing it. You sound like nothing but hesitation. Yeah. They recognize that it takes a person who is willing to be right here and right now to be of service to people that are going through the transformation you call death. Okay? Be within your own life and you will be able to assist those going through death. Be willing to be death. Be willing to be alive otherwise in that way you will never convince them that life also awaits them.

**Participant 13:** Oh, okay. I like that. I like that. Oh, one other question. Does shadows have any other purpose other than uh other than uh casting say the reflection of a solid object in this universe? Shadows? Do you mean physical shadows?

**Bashar:** Yeah, you can't touch. I guess you can see them. Yeah. All right. You may recognize that that which you can see as a shadow usually except in certain conditions will represent the only actual two-dimensional structure in your three-dimensional world. You follow me? One side of a shadow is completely two-dimensional. It has no thickness. Yet, you recognize it as an object. Therefore, it will be just as accurately symbolically reflective as a doorway into that idea. In the same way that the physical universe three-dimensionally is a shadow of the fourth to the fourth-dimensional viewpoint, three-dimensionality is flat in a sense. And many times, many individuals in your society when they form a connection in their fourth-dimensional selves will begin to look around them and feel that the reality around them is a little bit like cardboard, little flat of no substance.

**Participant 13:** It's it's getting like that already.

**Bashar:** Yes, that's right. That is the symbol connection of shadow.

**Participant 13:** So will we now that you've mentioned it will we are we in this transformation that we're making will we be operating more in in the fourth...

**Bashar:** This is the idea you are going as we said from third to fourth density you are expanding into another dimension of yourselves but isn't fourth dimension without bodies there is physical and non-physical fourth density it is the last level in which there can be both. Fifth, sixth and seventh are completely non-physical. You follow me? You will have light bodies.

***

### **Fever, Supplements, and Vibrational Food**

**Participant 14:** Question. Yes. You mentioned a connection between uh physical fever and transformation. Is that what I'm experiencing in my life?

**Bashar:** To a degree. Understand that within the mass consciousness at this time the idea of experiencing more rapid acceleration which is brought on by the integration of your consciousness will actually physically raise the temperature because as we described before of the friction between the higher and the lower vibration. You follow me?

**Participant 14:** Yes, I think so. Maybe not totally.

**Bashar:** All right. Yes. You may simply understand it as simple mechanics. When you have something moving slower pushing against something moving faster, it creates heat through friction. Mhm. Yes. You follow me?

**Participant 14:** Yes. Now I do. Uh I uh I had thought that that was what I was going through. Recently I received some advice that said actually this fever is consuming uh important substance in my body and I had to supplement it and uh I...

**Bashar:** What was that substance?

**Participant 14:** Uh some u oriental herbs. Medicine herbs.

**Bashar:** Have you already acquired it?

**Participant 14:** Yes.

**Bashar:** How do you feel? Um any different?

**Participant 14:** I had been Well, basically the fever continues.

**Bashar:** All right. So, oh yes. Now understand the idea is not to abate the fever because that is the I'll say recognition of the acceleration but many times because it is also a physicalized effect many times it can in that way have certain chemical effects in that way can be depletions. I see. I see. It's not that the idea of supplementation will abate the fever. It will simply make it so that you can go through it and transform and then lose the need to experience the friction because you will be identified with a higher vibration. Yes. A few years ago, you may also replace your zinc.

**Participant 14:** Thank you. Um I received instructions a few years ago to learn to live on air and water. I um didn't feel that that was something to apply immediately.

**Bashar:** Oh, very good. But allow me to say we would not have this conversation tonight if we had but I did feel that it was valid advice in terms of of the transformation from from the physical to the less and less physical and more into light.

**Participant 14:** Yes. Yes. Thank you. Well, thank you.

**Participant 15:** Do you wish to take your break? I'd like to ask one question first, Basher, if I may. Um, there's both a statement and a question because I guess there's a little bit of uncertainty on it and then it sometimes there isn't any certainty. I find that I can take what is considered to be a heavy vibrational food and um accelerate the atomic and vibrational structure of it so that it doesn't have the friction that it would for a for instance I can take pasta apparently accelerate it to the point where it has the same vibrational pattern as a fruit in a sense yeah and that's what's the innocence in a sense being that they're at that level then will simply be no differentiation between the different idea you call pasta and fruit. It will all be one vibrational idea. Right? So, so in actual fact, you can you can put those ideas in a vibrational pattern where you're not in any way negatively the effect of it.

**Bashar:** Yes, it will be for the purpose of experimenting with your ability to control reality in that way. But also understand the more you become of that vibration, allow me to use a colloquial term, the more natural effect will simply be that you will lose the urge for that which does not already exist at that vibrational level rather than go through the entire process of needing to transform it.

**Participant 15:** I I I I've uh you've said that before. Um I don't feel that the foods that I eat are because of urge. They're because of enjoyment.

**Bashar:** Same thing. Urge and enjoyment. Okay, fair enough. In that senseate that idea in that sense, usually with food, same thing. There can be the enjoyment from simply knowing that it is supplying what you need. There is that. Yes. Right. But many times people will confuse the enjoyment and the urge. Simply understand. Again, you're not have to really worry nor think about it. In either case, you will simply find that when you change your vibration, it will simply not occur to you that that would be something you would want. It will be as if you never had it to begin with. It will be almost like a foreign substance that you have never heard of. Yeah. Beautiful. It will be a quite natural transition. By all means continue to experiment of all the lines that you are. It will serve its purposes.

**Participant 15:** True. Thank you.

**Bashar:** You may take short break. All right. All right. Say question.

***

### **Specific Spirit Guides: Trumbull, Bilford, and Punjabi**

**Participant 16:** Yeah. I want to ask you question about the separateness of beings. Is it true that the beings that I have been channeling for the last 6 months that I call my spirit guides, is it true that they are not in fact separate individual beings? Are they just a part of me?

**Bashar:** No. Recognize that when you say just a part of me? Okay, forget. All right. Are they separate individual entities or are they a part of me? How many do you feel there have been?

**Participant 16:** Three. Three or four major ones.

**Bashar:** Yes. Three or four that have been primarily concerned with and had a lot of like a lot of uh a lot of allow me to say they are for the most part two of them mostly the idea you call portions of your consciousness. One of them is expressing and experiencing more the idea of having a connection. Yes. But also being its own individual. Mhm. In a future sense. Follow me.

**Participant 16:** Yeah. Are you talking about u forgot? Okay. Go ahead.

**Bashar:** In the sense that you have the ability as your future self to act as a guide for your present one. You follow me? Mhm. Thus, it has its own life in a sense, its own consciousness in a sense, yet it is still connected in much the same.

**Participant 16:** Why? But it would be the most separate of the three.

**Bashar:** It would be the most separate of the three. One that represents the future self will be the most separate of the three. The other two will be more connected to portions of your own consciousness that you are simply at this time willing to allow to blend with your overall consciousness.

**Participant 16:** I see. Uh is the one that you're talking about is that Billford? Do you have names for the others?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant 16:** Trumble and Punjabi. Do you have a name also for the ID you call spirit teacher?

**Bashar:** No. I was wondering if you had one or if you could locate one or if there was supposed to be one. The idea you experience that we will refer to as punal will be the future one. Spun. Your name? Oh, the one that I mentioned. Yes. Punjabi. Yes. Punjave for us. All right. Yeah. Will be the future idea. Of spirit teacher of the guide of the three. You follow me?

**Participant 16:** Oh yes. According to your own question, spirit teacher.

**Bashar:** There are at this time too many different vibrations which could result in too many different names for the same teacher. Okay. All right. Thank you. How do you feel about Buly?

**Participant 16:** I have a tremendous amount of love for him and for Trumble.

**Bashar:** What about Bill? Billford. Tremendous love. All right. Is there a difference in the feeling between them for you?

**Participant 16:** Uh, yes. In terms of how you regard them, how you look at them, how you sense them, how you feel them personalitywise. You follow me? Yeah. Right. Yes. Uh, I would say uh as far as my regard for them, there's no difference. But as far as how how they feel, I think I don't know. Maybe it's just my imagination, but I thought there was a difference in in their vibration.

**Bashar:** Oh, yes. There is nothing just about your imagination either. Now, what do you sense about the different vibrations of three? Start with tumble.

**Participant 16:** Trumbull has a very heavy billowing type of vibration, like a low voice.

**Bashar:** All right. What about Bilford?

**Participant 16:** Bilford has a more finely tuned vibration and he comes through with more of a flavor.

**Bashar:** All right. And what about Bunyavi?

**Participant 16:** Punjabi comes through with a I don't know. It's kind of like a a combination there of of the two and he has kind of a it's hard to it's hard to put in words.

**Bashar:** Very good. Now you understand why that represents the future. Do you see the difference? Do you see the difference?

**Participant 16:** I don't understand why that you have started with the idea you call trouble being the lower vibration being second puny being the highest because it is less I'll say describable you follow me less definable yes understand in this way that when you know there is no need to define as you somewhat do you will simply be able to sense the idea of the connection you have with bu in an active sense rather than a definitive sense. Yes. You follow me?

**Participant 16:** Yes. [Applause] From interaction with the idea of puny will come some more inkling of the idea of the spirit teacher as well.

**Bashar:** Oh yes. Yes. What I thought. Thank you. Thank you.

**Participant 17:** Question. Yes. I just a statement uh I had uh when as you're pronouncing uh puyab I had a very uh nice high feeling of elation and familiarity with that but good but good um I guess that's me huh I guess just trying to assess who else uh spoke up at the same time I have a series of questions Now obviously you recognize um at least some of the people who come you know week after week do you recognize all of them after they've been here a couple times?

**Bashar:** It will depend upon what changes they have made in their signature vibrations. We will usually recognize the basic signature vibration. Mhm. There are always differences in the patterns that we sense.

**Participant 17:** Okay. But are you normally um many times we may have in a sense if you will simply follow that I must use colloquialisms of your own language. We will sometimes have more recognition for someone who has not been here than for some who have been here several times and changed. I see. I see. Okay. As there will be identification many times with those who have not physically been here but we have had in a sense the opportunity to observe or interact with them on other different levels.

**Participant 17:** Okay. Okay. Uh next question is how there seems to be a difference in how thoroughly you tune in to various individuals. Nice. Why is that?

**Bashar:** It will be because of many things. One will be the willingness and allowance of the individual to open themselves to communication. Another will be that if we sense there is within the communication the opportunity to interfere with their free will or take their power away from them, the communication will be automatically limited. Mhm. You follow me?

**Participant 17:** Yes, I do. Okay. Well, let's let's I would like to um look into a subject that you and I discussed last week. All right. That of Rita and uh it seemed at the time that you you did not tune in to me at all yet I didn't have any any awareness at least at at the conscious level of restricting my willingness to communicate and be open with you and the reason I feel that you didn't tune into me is because what you were discussing was 180 degrees off of the way I felt about the situation why could you comment on that simply again recognize that we will never interfere with a chosen path. And in that sense, when you are choosing a vibration that is not in sync with our own in that way, you will be a closed book to us. You follow me?

**Participant 17:** Yeah, I understand that. This is our service to you. We limit ourselves in that way so as not to interfere with your choices. So as never to give you the impression that we are telling you what you should think and what you should do.

**Bashar:** I absolutely follow that and I wasn't looking for that. We know. Okay. We are answering your question.

**Participant 17:** Okay. All right. Well, I'm I'm interested in sorting out um I'm interesting in knowing more about this. In fact, I'm still interested in knowing what I was looking for last weekend, last week rather. And uh so the the next questions will hopefully uh hopefully will will enlighten that. Um, I use the term uh figuratively.

**Bashar:** Okay. Hopefully figuratively. Anyway, okay. Well, I've looked at this um the fact that uh that you were not really discussing with me the things that I already knew about the thing about the relationship between Brea and I. And I'm aside from the fact that that you said that um you were closing yourself off from it because it was not in tune with your vibration. Um it was a reflection that you were closing off a vibration that reflected how we would look at the situation. [Applause] You were creating your own vibrational reflection of the situation much of which did not synchronize with our vibration of the idea being expressed.

**Participant 17:** Okay. Well, if that's the case, it was, you see, what I observed going on, at least consciously, is is different from what I was feeling about the situation and from what I understand about the relationship between her and myself.

**Bashar:** All right. Now simply simply simply okay what we were observing if we will yes within the energy was a contradiction from what you were saying and what you were hoping for. We observed from our point of view the contradiction of saying I really do not care what she does but only if she would do this. You follow me?

**Participant 17:** I understand that. Yeah. That that is what prompted our discussion with you. Mhm. Was the sensing of that particular what seemed to us to be a contradiction within yourself.

**Participant 17:** Okay. Well, of course uh I have projected myself into physicality in order to experience contradictions and uh that kind of stuff you know. So that's additionally as as you may uh remember from if you do recognize u me currently we talked about my viewing things from a zen basis yes recall that okay but don't forget you can change that from time to time as well sure but I haven't changed it to the extent that I don't do it anymore all right so um are you doing it now can If if I I mean I haven't looked at specifically doing it that way. I basically just in other words. No. All right. Go ahead. Okay. Okay. In any case, I'm interested less in what I'm doing or less in in in what's going on with me in relationship to my relationship to Rita than what's going on with her.

**Bashar:** That is our point. That is what we were describing to you last week of your time.

**Participant 17:** Okay. Let me let me qualify that from the standpoint of being of best service to her.

**Bashar:** Being a best service to anyone is being interested in what you are doing within the idea of the relationship, not being concerned with what they are choosing to do.

**Participant 17:** Okay. Yeah. It's not a concern and it's not a concern with what they are choosing to do. I'm viewing what what she is doing, but it is not I I see what is um throwing me off is I don't feel the strength of concern or strength of um all right that you seem to allow us to then perhaps identify another word. See if this one settles a little better. All right. Fixated. How about strongly interested? Fixated. I don't buy it. Why are you strongly interested?

**Participant 17:** Because um I want to be it's my choice.

**Bashar:** Yes. Okay. Then it is a fixation. You are choosing to affix yourself to a particular viewpoint with regard to being in that way more interested in how that individual is perceiving the relationship than in how you are perceiving it for yourself.

**Participant 17:** Not more interested equally interested. I'm I'm interested in both how how both of us are perceiving it.

**Bashar:** All right. Then if you are equally interested is there any need to pursue anything as if you are totally equally interested you will understand that you will give yourself all the information you need from yourself and that other individual will give you all the information she needs to for the idea that you need to explore as well. Therefore, whatever it is that does come from that other individual will be exactly the information that you need if it is truly equal interest. Okay?

**Participant 17:** The information may not be on a conscious basis because I don't get that information from that other individual on a conscious basis. Let me see what I'm coming from coming coming from here is I I was um it was indicated to me via um somebody who does spirit guide sessions translating from my spirit guides that u she was interested in exploring suppression this lifetime and my flowing her the the love that I had for her in our terminology threatened her her in our terminology threatened her ability to experience suppression without popping out of it without um how did it threaten? How does love threaten?

**Participant 17:** Well, in this particular case uh in a previous lifetime from the viewpoint of time, all right, never mind all of that. Love does not threaten. Individuals may choose to be threatened. Love does not threaten.

**Bashar:** Okay. Well, I I said, you know, um in in our terminology, All right, stop. All right. Do you understand that through the translation device you call the medium? Yeah. We are still able to use your terminology and understand that we still said it differently than you. You said it differently. Understand that you said my love threatened. Yes. We said love does not threaten. I get that. You understand that in what you term to be plain English coming through the mouth of the physical channel. Therefore in that way when we say that there is a difference in saying it that way understand that there is a difference. The idea that well I was just being colloquial does not do it. The way you said it is the way you meant it subconsciously. Therefore there is a difference subconsciously unconsciously and consciously from understanding the difference between saying my love threatened and love does not threaten. But that people choose to be threatened.

**Participant 17:** All right. I totally understand that. All right. And I realize that it was her choice. Her choice. Okay. It is her choice. Yes. Indeed. Right. Totally. And I totally understand that. So in that way, when I do flow her love, she she rejects it.

**Bashar:** Yes. For the purpose of not wanting to blow her suppression game for the next few years.

**Participant 17:** What? Okay. Now I wanted you to comment on that and there is nothing to comment on. If you are sending her unconditional love, she is still doing what she wants to do. You are doing what you want to do. No comment necessary. There is no expectation of any change within the sending of unconditional love. Therefore, get on about your life.

**Participant 17:** Okay. Well, see the question was this. Since I still have a great relationship with her kids, yes, uh and I'm therefore around her on occasion, I want to deal with her in the best possible way. What has felt right would is currently for me to deal with her kind of in a cold fashion and I was wondering if I am do you feel that in that quote unquote cold fashion you are still not sending her unconditional love?

**Bashar:** I know that I am all right then no big deal within the idea that it is all right for you to express unconditional love and allow yourself to show path in your beingness without necessarily in that way physically interacting but simply knowing that it is there within your beingness and allowing yourself to relax within the idea that it is all right to exemplify that. However she chooses to react is her choice. Okay. You cannot coddle her.

**Participant 17:** Well, on that point then I was see it has kind of puzzled me why I felt it would it was of service to her to treat her somewhat coldly. I mean, this is what I'm confused about. It seems like it's right for me to do this at this time.

**Bashar:** You can recognize that an individual may be requesting of you to be aloof. You may feel that there is validity in granting the service of acting that out for them. Yeah. Does not mean that you have to feel any different about the idea of still sending them the unconditional love.

**Participant 17:** Oh, I do it simultaneously. I'm told to them and I'm loving her at the same time. All right. But the weird thing about it, see, I'm still I'm still experiencing um dropping old habits and dropping old views. Okay. So, for me, it's like here I'm treating this person coldly and it's like, gee, this is something that I was trying to get away from.

**Bashar:** Then you may redefine the term coldly. Okay. Understand that if you are simply in that way following I'll say allowing yourself to be of service to her wishes to act aloof then you can understand that since you are sending unconditional love since you are being of service to act aloof because she requests it you are not acting coldly.

**Participant 17:** I understand that. I was just not sure that I was getting the message from her, the request from her to act holy or whether it was something that I was doing for myself. It seemed like it was for her.

**Bashar:** All right. And this is this is what I was asking you last week. And uh All right. Allow us to suggest there is no need to in your vernacular act coldly. Be yourself. But stay within yourself within that idea. Be warm. Be cordial, be open, be open for the opportunity of that individual in that way to then share whatever she may wish to share with you. If you would rather understand that you may simply be not cold, not aloof, but simply preferential. Preferential meaning in the sense that you may be more acting within a professional attitude but not coldly. In other words, all right. If you wish to make this idea of this relationship something that will give you in your terms space and allow me to still send you the space and allow me to still send you the unconditional love, then I will come I may still talk to you openly, lovingly in that way. Simply you, this is speaking to the other individual may know that in no way, shape or form how I speak to you has any bearing upon any assumption that I am making of what my communication with you must do for you. Therefore, you may even, if you wish, go so far as to actually express this. Mhm. My being warm in speech and tone and demeanor towards you has nothing to do with expecting you to change. It is simply that I know that my reality is in sending you unconditional support for any choice you make. Therefore, why should I not simply act the idea of that unconental sport and be warm in my demeanor towards you? It does not carry an expectation with it. Therefore, there is no bind upon me to cease being the way I know I am. You can express it this way quite blatantly.

**Participant 17:** Yes. In in certain respects, I have a while back and then it changed.

**Bashar:** Then let it go.

**Participant 17:** Yeah. Okay. How does that feel?

**Participant 17:** Well, it feels feels fine. Uh it's it is my preference to just be warm toward her, but I'd rather not um create an uncomfortable position.

**Bashar:** You are not condition for her if I You are not. She is creating it for herself.

**Participant 17:** Right. Okay. I understand that.

**Bashar:** There is a point beyond which you need not take responsibility for their creations as long as you are clear and straight with them and with yourself about your intentions and your integrity and your feelings. Beyond that, it is their choice to feel rotten if they decide to.

**Participant 17:** Yeah, I understand that. Well, see, I can go either way. Uh I can in at a moment's notice I can change. And I'm wondering is there which way do you want to be?

**Bashar:** I want to be of service to her. Then be of service and be of service to yourself as well by not denying yourself the feelings of being of service in the sense of simply knowing that you can be warm and cordial because that is what feels better to you.

**Participant 17:** Well, yeah. All right. Again, do not coddle her.

**Bashar:** Yeah. Other words, on some levels, you then will be offering her the chance to feel that you are actually removing support.

**Participant 17:** I understand that. All right. Okay. It just doesn't feel all that terrible bad to um tact tooly to her if um that feels since you have clarified the idea. It is up to you how you wish to act. But understand if you are acting cold out of deference to something you have already explained then you are not being yourself.

**Participant 17:** Yeah. All right. Yeah. All right. Okay. In other words, it really doesn't matter what I do.

**Bashar:** Not really. Except that it matters in the sense that if you allow yourself to be yourself and know that the communication is already understood that being yourself in no way poses an expectation, then there is a difference. Mhm. Because then in saying well now I must act cold is not how you feel like acting then you are denying service to yourself in that way as well and actually denying service to her.

**Participant 17:** And if I feel like acting cold then I should act cold.

**Bashar:** Oh yes. Got it. All right. Thanks very much. By you for sure. All right. You okay?

***

### **Acclimation, Moving to Phoenix, and Light Beings**

**Participant 18:** Uh I noticed my observation maybe it seems like with other people that uh this tremendous uh excitement that I used to feel the energy that I felt last spring when we were all here is winding down to feeling like we're more becoming in a not so excited, not so in a dream state. I mean we're more like in we're walking around half in a dream, half in reality. Yes, both are real. I miss the excitement that I used to feel.

**Bashar:** Do you recognize and realize how many times you have said this?

**Participant 18:** Yes. And I'm still missing it and I and I'm wondering if other people are missing it too.

**Bashar:** What difference does that make? Are you saying misery loves company?

**Participant 18:** No, not particularly. Uh, I'm just wondering if they are feeling the same thing or just there may be the feeling of allowing yourself to begin to be more in step with the accelerated energy and thus not feeling there to be such a difference between the state you were in and the state you are in. It does not have to translate into missing anything. They may be feeling it but they may not be missing it because they may be recognizing that what rate they are traveling at now represents the rate of a new idea and they are not making the comparison as you are. You follow me. You only miss when you make a comparison when you make a judgment. Right? There is no loss. Where you are now is more of an integration of that momentum to allow you to do the things that you said you wanted to do in fourth density, right? What is there to miss? Nothing.

**Participant 18:** Thank you. Bless. Um, hi Bashar. It's nice to see you again. Um, I just wanted to share something, but I need to ask a couple questions too. Oh, what? I think a couple weeks ago I came to see you and I told you I've been in touch with u certain beings and they were light bluish. Yes. And uh almost transparent and uh that they had been wrapping me in this light almost like they were preparing me for something. I finally figured out what they were doing. Oh, you will. But yes, I will. Um what I got was that um lots of love extreme amount of love was there guys and just unbelievable and oh obviously you could believe it otherwise you would not there it's just hard to put it in words you feel it you know very good um and uh what they were doing is is um because of this I this going from third to fourth and fifth densities here it was like um I was speeding so fast and I was having problems with energy and they kind of like wrapped me up in this this light and it kind of um helped me.

**Bashar:** All right. Physically. All right. And um understand you made the agreement in that way. You created it for yourself as well.

**Participant 18:** Right. Therefore, it was not a problem.

**Bashar:** No, no, there's no problem there. Thank you.

**Participant 18:** Um, but also I have a feeling at first I thought they were you and I was going to ask you if they were or not. The beings were and now now I have a feeling they're they're very similar to you. I think they're mysterious or...

**Bashar:** Yeah. All right. Why?

**Participant 18:** Just I don't know why. I just just I just have a feeling.

**Bashar:** All right. Very good. And I was going to ask you if you knew who they were, though. Anyway, not specifically the personalities, but yes, the serious energy. Yes, we know.

**Participant 18:** Great. You know, but you Yeah. Now. But I also know that it was also you too because...

**Bashar:** Only in the sense that our consciousness as yours is linked to ours, ours is linked to theirs, theirs is linked to yours. That's what I meant.

**Participant 18:** Yes. Now, what has been going on with my body the last couple weeks is it's you know like little atoms going off. It's it feels like the insides of my body are changing.

**Bashar:** Yes. The blood, the meta metabolism and so forth.

**Participant 18:** And uh it was really a great feeling. It was just so different and I felt good about it.

**Bashar:** Yes. Wonderful, isn't it?

**Participant 18:** Yes. And um this week uh it's kind of subsided to somewhat to a tingle.

**Bashar:** All right. And um I always wonder what else I can expect.

**Participant 18:** You can expect nothing. Otherwise, you will not allow it to happen. When you put expectation upon it, you do not experience what you are giving yourself right now as valid. That is a part of the unfoldment. What is happening right now is a part of what you expected some time ago. Okay? Allow this to be valid and more can occur. Mhm. All right. Okay. The tingling in that way is again your ability to synchronize with the energy you were given. And there is not now such a great comparison between the two levels because you are now in a different level. Thus, having acclimated to some degree now allows you to do things. If you were in a constant state of feeling overwhelmed, you would not be able to do anything with that energy, with that acceleration. You follow me?

**Participant 18:** Yes. Therefore, you have lost nothing. Nothing has subsided. You have only acclimated. You have climbed another rung.

**Bashar:** Great. Now, um I understand that um there is going to be um a lot more coming uh in the autumn months. Um can you just tell me a little bit about that?

**Bashar:** Only at this time that within the mass consciousness there is within this opportunity of the 9th, 10th and 11th months to do as you are doing to acclimate to the accelerated rate so that you can provide energy to certain situations which you are creating to happen mid 1,986 of your time so as to involve yourself globally in making a decision to what vibrational reality you wish to subscribe. You follow me?

**Participant 18:** Yes.

**Bashar:** There will be events and primarily a few very large events that will affect the global consciousness in such a way that each individual not in the colloquial sense of the term forced but each individual will force themselves to take a stand on what type of reality for the entire world they really wish to identify with.

**Participant 18:** Mhm. I see. I see. I also am moving to Phoenix, Arizona.

**Bashar:** How you just in the Oh, what a coincidence.

**Participant 18:** It's uh like I was It's almost like a Well, I was told in a sense and I'm compelled in a sense to move there. I did drive up to Sedona. Nice. And it's beautiful. I understand why it's such a place. And uh I did see a a ship uh distant but um it was great. It was like a shooting star and it was going in the opposite direction. Not down towards the earth but out of it.

**Bashar:** All right. Right. But uh so I am moving and uh it's like I'm I'm expected to move.

**Participant 18:** So I am.

**Bashar:** You are already there in a sense.

**Participant 18:** Yes. Oh yeah. I'm there. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. I really appreciate it.

***

### **Future Self, Fear, and Age Gaps**

**Participant 19:** I want to make sure I wanted to make sure you were done there, but I still wanted to get in my That's like two cents, but I'll say my million dollars. All right. Thank you. Um, we talked about my future self as maybe not being in physical form. Yes. And yet that's there's still no reason why I couldn't be in contact with my future self.

**Bashar:** Of course not.

**Participant 19:** Okay. Sometimes I feel all alone. I guess it's because I don't haven't sometimes to open up.

**Bashar:** Pamela. Yes. There is no reason why you cannot be your future self as well. Mhm.

**Participant 19:** I guess I think well it's supposed to have some kind of other name besides my name and all that. But then I then I've also see well maybe with that I'm creating separation which is more in line with my purpose is to create non is to very good um also cuz I was thinking when um this other young lady was sharing and Chris Ham and uh um and I use this a lot too and she used it and a lot of people do the just the terminologies I was told to do this. I was told to do that, but really we're telling ourselves. Yes. Okay. Cuz there you are creating the situation which brings to you the symbology that seems to tell you, right? Cuz the sometimes that seems like fun. Yes. Um now also a few months well maybe it's been a while now but I did have the experience of voice mediumship very briefly and it was very real for me. I mean I have no doubt about that particular experience. Oh nice. And so I know I can do that. And yet uh at the time I had stopped it um because a great amount of fear came up within me and and I well I feel like I'm still working with that fear that kind of fear of not being in control. All right. Um it just seems funny to me the thing that I wanted so much and then when it happens it's like yes that will usually be the paradox. Yes. This tremendous fear. Do you know that your future self does not have that fear?

**Participant 19:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Then when you are your future self, you as well will not have it. Then there can be the blending.

**Participant 19:** Okay. Thank you. Thank you.

**Bashar:** There will be in your terms a few more of your minutes.

**Participant 20:** For sure. Nice. Um I have noticed that uh you know years ago there was a lot of talk about uh the uh the gap between uh uh younger and older people that sort of thing but I've noticed that uh there are more relationships marriages that sort of thing uh where age difference is a much wider range. Yes. Does that have anything to do with us moving in?

**Bashar:** Oh, come now. Of course. Do you not see it?

**Participant 20:** Well, yeah. I'm just sort of Okay.

**Bashar:** Understand that what you have turned to be your generation gap, quote unquote, Yeah. Was not so much a gap as an overlap. You follow me? Right. There is the blending of the idea of youth and old age in that sense representing polarities but also at the same time similarities within viewpoint outlook on life. It is usually in your society only the middle which has all the confusion. You follow me? Mhm. Thus there is a natural symbol taking place within the ide unification of young and old. Okay. Many times it will simply be expressed physically as you have said because that is how the individuals expressing the symbol wish to express it.

**Participant 20:** Well, do you recall last week when we talked about certain individuals with the plane crisis needed to reincarn?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant 20:** Um, I wondered if this sort of thing is sort of naturally handling itself, you know, with people getting together with uh age differences like they are in in terms of those people say who are older having a younger counterpart so to speak. It sort of helps blend them into what's happening before they leave.

**Bashar:** Can be. Yes. Very good. Okay. But it will be different for many different individuals. But that will be one idea.

**Participant 20:** Yes. Great. Okay. Thank you.

***

### **Akashic Records and Crystals**

**Participant 21:** Yes. I had experience the other night a few nights ago in my dream state whereas I went to a library and there was no roof or walls. It was like up on a mountain. Yes. And I sensed it was the Akashic record.

**Bashar:** Yes. A symbol of that idea. The symbol that you brought back with you to represent it physically.

**Participant 21:** Yes. That's right. And I was shown as though I knew and was being shown to somebody else that there was three of us. And there was some sort of game like we would play here with cards, but it was with photos. And I sat there and I looked at the photos and then they were there were photos of myself since I was born. Yes. And there were photos that are not recorded here.

**Bashar:** Understand that many individuals in creating the symbol of seeing their life quote unquote spread out before them from that point of view have described many times by analogy the idea of spreading a deck of cards. Yes. H and then there was one photo that spoke spoke to me. It was uh of myself when I was about 8 years old and it is look in that moment is when I was having a telepathic communication and it was taken that photo was taken by myself or in a sense it is not really a photo right understand that that represents the age that you determined in that way to initiate contact with and activate for your higher consciousness. Yes. In terms of the path that has led you to where you are, it will be the decision point on one level to initiate a certain type of path.

**Participant 21:** Yes. The in that sense then every picture that was laid out was a point like there was one I was very infant and one I was about. Yes. But the one that spoke represents a particular type of decision.

**Bashar:** Uhhuh. This occurs for many individuals in their youth. It will be seen to be what is called a signpost that they have set for themselves and when they arrive at that point they recognize it and that is why it stands out has a little bit more life in a sense. You follow me?

**Participant 21:** Yes. That's beautiful. Now in regards to the other two individuals there um I just would like a little bit more enlightenment on my particular relation.

**Bashar:** Not at this time. Okay. Thank you. You may go back there. However, look at the cards again. Look at them again. Have a discussion with them there. You will receive the information from them directly.

**Participant 21:** All right. Beautiful. Thank you. Thank you. You sure?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant 22:** I just went into the other room and sat on this chair that has an energizing crystal underneath it. Yes. Can you explain to me how that works?

**Bashar:** Simply understand that what you're told to be. Crystal formation represents a solidification energy matrix. In this way, it is representative of in a sense a frozen vibrational pattern of energy which is a focuser, a channeler of the basic format energy of creation. In that way, electromagnetic fields, as you may call them in that sense, in a colloquial term, you may recognize that just as a lens focuses light, crystals focus energy, create fields in which you can allow yourself to operate, unlocked from different types of reality, and allow yourself to reorient to other types of reality. Follow me?

**Participant 22:** Yes. Different configurations as tools, though we will remind you that they are all symbolic.

**Bashar:** All right? But different configurations as tools will have different effects. Symbolic. They're all symbolic. Meaning that we all physicality is symbolic. You are doing the action on another level. But the crystallin configurations will at this time begin to represent the solidification, purification, rarification, acceleration, and alignment of your own energy spectrum, your own vibrational pattern. Thus, you will begin to identify more clearly with crystals as tools than with tools you have previously made in your society. You will begin to understand how you can focus your own energies through them and the energies of creation. They will become very multi-purpose. You can with your own consciousness tune crystals to different effects. Let me say that as you allow your energy vibrations once again to recognize the patterns of fourth density. Realize that in fourth density, life is lived, not thought about. [Applause]

We will once again extend our unconditional love in the sharing that you allow and for allowing us to be of service in that way and for allowing yourselves to be of service to all that is we will thank you before you go.

***

### **Q&A: Life on Bashar’s Planet**

**Participant 23:** All right. May I ask you a few questions that will require brief answers about your life on your planet? I've had these for a few weeks and I can I ask you these now?

**Bashar:** Go ahead.

**Participant 23:** All right. Thank you. Uh, since you were bold enough to say so, I I thought you would be along with that. When you want a garment for yourself, do you go to a garment maker or how do you acquire one? Where do they come from for yourselves?

**Bashar:** Many times, individuals will feel the joy in making these garments. We will acquire one from them. Mhm. They will always be providing exactly what is needed. There are sometimes individuals who will do this process in a sense on mass in what you told them to be automated fashion.

**Participant 23:** Good. That was my next question. If you did have mass manufacturing and apparently you do in some...

**Bashar:** Yes. In some capacity. Yes.

**Participant 23:** Okay. Uh when you want to transfer your body from one craft to another, do you um generally walk or do you beam them across with some kind of an energy beam or how do you do that? Do you mean when they are in your terminology at rest?

**Bashar:** Yes. Orbiting your your uh planet when you're not really uh hyperspace jumping to go from ship to ship.

**Participant 23:** Yeah. You want to go to the mother ship uh to have lunch or something.

**Bashar:** The craft scout craft will enter the mother ship. We will disembark.

**Participant 23:** Got it. Okay. That's exclusively. You don't do any transportation.

**Bashar:** Um there is some.

**Participant 23:** Okay. Do you have ground vehicles?

**Bashar:** In a sense though they do not contact the physical ground they float as well.

**Participant 23:** Got it. Okay. Um what is the form of the food that you have created with your mass consciousness?

**Bashar:** It will be seen to be in a sense as a vegetable. It will be likened to small pods light whitish green in color. There will be some variation sometimes yellow white. You may liken the color to corn white. You may liken the color to corn in a way or to lime bean. It will vary between these two idea is yellow green. Mhm. And the form of the vegetable the most edible part is that kind of like our green peas. It will be more round like a single kernel of your corn but larger and rounder more than tooth shaped I presume little bit more again there will be some variation how long would one pod be containing several kernels?

**Participant 23:** No each little pod is its own kernel oh okay I got All right.

**Bashar:** They will approximate the idea you call the size of your monetary unit quarter H.

**Participant 23:** Okay. Just uh nuggets.

**Bashar:** Yes. Nuggets. Yes. Okay. All right. Uh last and final question. Uh do you bring the air that you breathe in your spacecraft from your planet or do you create it on the craft?

**Bashar:** There is air in the craft when the door is sealed. Mhm. It is however also generated in a sense within the craft as there is what you term to be a supply contained therein.

**Participant 23:** Okay. That you would bring from the planet you okay compress it or something.

