Earth History




**Q:** Did the laws of the physical Universe... you mean yours? Yeah, our physical Universe. Are you mine from Universe? Are you mine from ours?

**A:** In the way understand, there will be within many mass consciousnesses the idea of their own inoc sense physical Universe. We will share what you turn to be many portions of one Universe. In the way there are many ideas that you call parallel universe, some of which do not in that range share the idea agreement that you call laws of physics the same as you.

**Q:** Okay, I would be talking about uh Earth all um. Did they evolve as they were needed or were they conceived in total at the time of the creation every idea?

**A:** In that way as you understand it comes complete as a complete idea. Therefore the idea of the creation of this particular Viewpoint universe will then have contained from the moment of this creation Inception in that way all the ideas which then Define it by its vibration, you follow me?

**Q:** Yes. Did it was it created all in kind of one one instant or uh...

**A:** Understand that from the point of view of what you turn to be non-physical dimensionality, which is where in a sense in your vernacular the universe was created from, it seemed in a sense to be an instant since there is no time in that way. In terms of the creation of time itself, then that manifestation as it was created then must of follow in a sense its own course and enact out itself through the idea of a time frame, a time scale. And in that sense as you would say it took time, you follow me? Time to develop the creation in a sense. Understand that the creation was instantaneous but as it was manifested into physical reality, one of the ideas defining the perimeters of physical reality itself being the concept you call time, then it seemed to unfold in a Time sense.

**Q:** I got it thank you. Question: at the beginning of time as we know it on the planet, were these uh thought forms projected to create a physical being on the earth or that any sense?

**A:** Again as you understand there were many ideas of projections in many different time frames in that way. Some of which were in your estimation of what you turn to be historical time quite instantaneous is some unfolded more within the time track. There is at this time in what you perceive to be the idea of your physical form a blending of the two ideas.

**Q:** And when these ideas first created on on the planet was that considered uh the country of or the land mass of continent of Atlantis?

**A:** No. The Garden of Eden? No. Understanding that way the idea of... no understanding that way the idea of what you will turn to be now realized this is quite allegorical from a very very specific point of view. But as you may understand it in your terminology, there will have been the I'll say projection of that physicality, that life force in the area Blended as it was at that time, not known to you in the way it is now but more in the area you would call a collective Asiatic land mass, you follow me? More in the area you would call China but it was then the idea that split into what was later Lemuria and Asia, you follow me?

**Q:** Yes. What happened to Atlantis is that...

**A:** Understand that is quite recent in your history as you know it. Not more in that way was the destruction of that land mass then approximately 12,500 of your years ago, you follow me?

**Q:** Destruction of what land?

**A:** Atlantis.

**Q:** So what when did Lemuria... Lemuria in Atlantis so what when did Lemuria...

**A:** Lemuria in that way was more of the idea of approximately in that way allow me to say 50 thousand of your years ago. There were in that way major what you term heals 75,000 of your years ago in that way also. There were in that sense the idea of this land mass stretching back to several hundreds of thousands of your years in that way. But there was then the idea in your time frame as you understand it within the overall land of mass in that way which existed at the time of the projection of the physicality then many many many many many tens of millions of your years ago.

**Q:** Was the destruction of Lemuria 75,000 years ago connected with the altering of the Earth's axis and the what we call the ice age?

**A:** To a degree there was that time frame coincident. Understanding that rather it will simply have represented the vibrational patterns of your Earth crystal as it was going to a very natural cycle in that way, you follow me?

**Q:** Yes. Was not then the entire idea of what you turn to be destruction in the 75,000 year time frame but also extended to the 50,000 year time frame of your years ago? This then was the origin upon what you now hold to be your present existence upon this continent that you have turned North America to be, the I say injection of that Civilization you recognize to this day in that way as what you call the Hopi, follow me?

**Q:** Yes. And is that the epicenter or say the center of uh the uh the center of the earth comes out is where the Hopi... in an allegorical astral sense?

**A:** Not in what you would certain be a literal configuration but they will be able to make literalness of it in that they have already deemed that their reality exists both in the physical and the dream state naturally.

**Q:** Do the beings that live in the center of the earth if there are such occurrences, is this where the Hopi deserve contact to the to the surface again?

**A:** Understand their way that what you express to be the existence in their way of Consciousness within your planet will for the most part be of extra dimensional sense. Therefore there will be a doorway in that way within that Civilization you call Hopi and they will have Passage through. But understand it is not as you understand it exactly literally physically that they exist in that way inside your planet, although there are pockets in your terminology of existence in that way under the surface of your planet. But it is not as widespread in a physical sense as you think. There is in a sense a widespread existence in an astral sense, an extra dimensional sense. This then can form the transformation in that way through the doorways as they are created by the mass consciousness of any particular culture within your entire civilization. And as such they give themselves free access to these dimensional Realms, to these contacts with other civilizations, other consciousnesses which are in that way said to exist within the surface of your Earth in other-dimensional sense in that way because they allow themselves to exist the Hopi, that is allow themselves to exist halfway between physicalness and non-physicalness as a natural state of being, follow me?

**Q:** Yes. So is that the State of Consciousness that uh will that the present civilization As We Know It uh progress towards?

**A:** Yes in a sense. This is what is defined the idea of transformation from third density to Fourth density awareness. That in that you will allow the here-to-or self-created separation between your physical reality and non-physical reality to become removed and be Blended in Consciousness so that you will begin to live physically, live your dreams, you follow me?

# Past Lives and Religion

**Q:** Yeah um I I have a lot of stuff I could share but you know like you said I don't want to ramble on for hours and hours and it pertains to the idea of uh Jesus Christ which is that an idea that I've never much been interested in and that I'm taking a look at now in order to integrate my judgment and and fear of religion in general. Oh um and I feel like I've been taking a look at what I think on my past lies in order to um get another picture from a perspective looking at it that way. Some some have been also alternate rather than directly linearly path to This Here and Now physical life, you follow me? Alternate to what I am, alternate lies, alternate dimensions of reality okay, another time track. All right well the only the one that I could really pick up on was that I had Life as a nun or I have a life as a nun um and in in which it ended in a lot of bitterness towards that idea because certain ideas that I had were never fulfilled. But in thinking about being in the time when Jesus Christ was there I don't really get a picture of me other than maybe somebody who sort of stood back and watched.

**A:** You were not in that way within the exact time frame of the physical life of that entity then.

**Q:** I'm okay then I was correct about that.

**A:** Okay.

# Illness and Contagion

**Q:** Um I guess that's all thank you all right question. I have a question um concerning um illness that occurs on on our planet which uh contagious diseases. So soal when a person has some kind of disease and and somebody else gets it like say flu or or any kind of contagious disease um would it be that the um it's really not contagious from one person to the next except that the uh person let's say that would develop it um after the other one uh might they would definitely be causing it for themselves right?

**A:** There is however the creation of a physical symbolic mechanism to in that way reflect back to you the idea that it is being a transference of Consciousness, a transference of idea, a sharing of concept.

**Q:** Right but but a person has a choice of whether they want to take it or not right? Words I I I had something to uh give to somebody else who was a contagious disease I would be actually offering them uh that choice have a choice of taking it or not taking it yes right and that's that's what it is across the board for all these diseases yes?

**A:** Okay understand way many times there will be the acceptance of the offering so as to perform a service to the overall idea which the mass Consciousness, that is the collective consciousness of your entire civilization is working through at the time, you follow me?

**Q:** Yes thank you. Uh one other things so why do people maybe I can answer the question while I'm asking. Maybe what you know the old saying that when you resist something a lot you become that thing. Would it basically be because if you're resisting it you're putting a lot of attention on that idea and causing it to just stay there with you?

**A:** Yes. If you feel the need to defend yourself against something then the basic belief that you are then saying you have is that you feel there is something worth the energy to defend against. And in that way your belief reinforces the idea that there is something possibly more powerful than yourself in that way that can for some reason then gain power over you. And that is why you create then the idea of its ability to have more energy than you feel yourself to have because you are giving your power away to that idea in feeling that you need to defend yourself from anything anyway to begin with, follow me?

**Q:** Interesting. So so you're you're okay so you're resisting something uh that is another portion of yourself. You're just feeling that it will overcome you so you have to stand back from the whole thing and and hope it won't hurt you.

**A:** That is the creation of the idea of the reinforcement of that negative effect. So as long as you feel there's something there that's more powerful than you uh then you will always be a victim right and you'll always have these things occur to you yes until you allow yourself to realize that the only reason you are creating them is to give yourself the understanding that you no longer need to create them, you follow me? Those physical ideas, those physical expressions are there as symbolic Reflections which you create for yourself to remind yourself in a physically conscious manner that you are creating it and this is what you are going through and there is no need now to experience this idea anymore because you are allowing the purpose for the physical creation to be lived out. And in that way in allowing any symbol to serve its purpose it no longer needs to manifest.

**Q:** I understand that. What about for a person who doesn't consciously uh become aware that that they are causing that for themselves?

**A:** Again understand in that way it may still serve the purpose of allowing themselves to create that for themselves so as to not be conscious of their own creation so as to interact in such a way in a limited Viewpoint way with other individuals so as to allow those individuals in that way to come to their own terms of acceptance for what is occurring. And in that way allow there to be a service being done by the acceptance of that disease for display to other individuals so that they can come to Terms with ideas within themselves, you follow me?

**Q:** So there you there like a mirror for other people that's their purpose in having that disease can be?

**A:** Yes. There are many many reasons for the manifestation of any particular physical symbol in your Society.

**Q:** So it's like everybody's helping each other out reflecting?

**A:** Yes it is very very natural it is very simple it is very automatic.

**Q:** Thank you. Do the same go for natural disasters around the planet?

**A:** In a sense though they will be seen in a sense to be reflections of the ideas in that way in a mass conscious point of view. In other words that portion of the mass Consciousness that is self-aware of itself in that way that is then acting out the idea of blending its mass un and mass subconsciousness in the same way that you as an individual are beginning to blend your subconscious and unconsciousness with your outer aware physical Consciousness in that way. And as such then to ease these I will say tension symbols within yourself to relieve stresses within yourself in much the same way that your overall Mass conscious awareness your planet relieves stresses within itself in that way. Understand you are simply now as a mass Consciousness beginning to realize that you have the opportunity to rechannel these energies from the Earth crystal in that way from the mass Consciousness in that way into more positive effect because you now simply understand that you are the cause of that idea, you are sharing that idea, you are the creator of that idea. And in that way you may choose any which way you wish to manifest that energy and so be become conscious creators in parallel tandem synchronous co-creator Hood with the entire consciousness of your civilization, follow me?

# Atlantis and Social Structure

**Q:** Yes. Did this knowledge of the universal law have something to do with the cast system in in Atlantis?

**A:** Rather it wasn't that way. A choice to ignore that idea that caused what you told to be the differentiation between levels of society.

**Q:** Could you explain a little more in detail what why there was such a cast system if there was one?

**A:** There wasn't that way yes. And understand it was from the idea that there was the beginning of the choice in a mass conscious way to explore the idea of I'll say negativity within the self, the idea of separation of the self from all that is. When the individual V chose to feel that they wish to explore separation of self from all that is then understand that there must be still within the higher Consciousness the recognition of the self-c connection to all that is. But when you chose to separation from all that is in a conscious manner then you are self-limited, you are self-blinded in that way yet still following the yearnings in a sense that are imparted to you from the higher Consciousness which always Whispers into your subconsciousness the idea of the connection that you have. Having made the separation however and not listening in the way to the higher Consciousness from a collected point of view you will then fulfill the idea of yearning to be connected to everything by then feeling that since you are not a part of everything the only way to become connected to everything is to have dominion over it, you follow me?

**Q:** Yes. What do you mean dominion over it?

**A:** Domination, subjugation. And that leads to materialism, that leads to the idea of differentiation and what you term the cast system. It leads to the idea that there is a need for materialization in order to support the self rather than simply allowing the idea of the expression of material ideas to be simply one more symbol for the manifestation and recognition and integration of your entire Consciousness towards the idea of a collective all that is, you follow me?

**Q:** Good question. On the subject of uh illness as we were discussing before are you saying that even for uh someone whose uh wavelength is not attune to someone with perhaps say AIDS if they came in direct contact with the carrier of AIDS and into direct contact with the symbol of transmission of AE they still wouldn't get AIDS if that is not their vibration?

**A:** No. Okay. Um you are your own Universe you choose what you wish to manifest within it according to what you believe about yourself.

**Q:** Okay good.

# Prison Planet Concept

**Q:** Slightly different subject. Acknowledging that we do have free will and um that some of us choose negative vibrations uh even as being victims uh is there any any validity the idea of Earth as a prison planet within this concept of U Mass reality?

**A:** Only as you choose to imprison yourselves.

**Q:** So there's no Mass Consciousness choosing Earth as a prison planet or something like that?

**A:** Allow me to say there is that idea within the overall Mass Consciousness at this time as we perceive your overall Mass Consciousness. It is not a major percentage of what the mass Consciousness knows itself to be.

**Q:** Uhhuh. Was that just an idea that somebody that portions had or was did they actually go through a process?

**A:** It was an idea which was then created to begin to understand from the separated point of view you were coming from. The idea of contact with other Consciousness that you had to First deem to be in a sense outside yourself. Then recognizing it from the point of view that you created in being separate from all that is you began to recognize it as oh greater than yourselves in that way. And as such formed temporarily the idea that somehow you were then put upon by them and and imprisoned in that way in your situation, always then casting off the responsibility of your Creations onto something else other than yourselves.

**Q:** But that act of uh someone else even symbolically putting us here didn't actually occur it was just a concept that we created to um... you put yourself here yeah?

**A:** Okay.

# Starvation and Service

**Q:** Why people are just joking than you but I've got a question all right. The people in Ethiopia who are starving are they doing that on purpose like to just to in a sense?

**A:** Understand in that way that as we have said in that sense there is always within any situation the opportunity to see the gift within the situation and to allow the symbol of that situation then to serve its purpose and then transform from the idea you are now experiencing as starvation. Recognizing that way that while you are in that sense aiding them, they by creating a manifestation symbol in that way to allow you to Aid them are also allowing you to Relieve your spiritual starvation, yeah you follow me?

**Q:** Yeah.

**A:** Then when each of you blend into the overall understanding that each is a valid path, a valid gift in that way of Love of sharing, then both will be allowed to serve their purposes and you will be able to blend within the idea of abundance spiritually and abundance materially for all concerned.

# Skin Conditions and Judgment

**Q:** Oh okay um I've got another question. Can you suggest anything I could do to improve my skin like not get cripple?

**Q:** (Interrupting) Why well I I think it looks better with and feels better feels better yeah.

**A:** Must you in that way then create the condition of the physical symbol before you will choose to feel better or would you rather feel better first and allow it to automatically create the physical symbol that goes along with the effect of feeling better?

**Q:** I guess I'd rather feel better first.

**A:** All right go ahead. You may begin to feel better. You may feel better. You may simply understand there really is no better. You may simply feel exactly perfect because every moment of creation that you create is exactly a perfect moment of creation. No matter what idea positive or negative is being created it is a perfect Flawless manifestation of that particular expression of your creative Consciousness. Therefore when you cease comparing condition, when you cease comparing realities you will simply understand that every reality is a perfect creation unto itself and therefore you may then choose automatically between any other perfect creation that you wish. Allow yourself simply to realize that when you give yourself a situation in your life that you judge judge judge judge to be negative, allow yourself to know that that is the Judgment itself. It is only the Judgment itself not the situation. The Judgment of the situation which sustains a negative effect. Yeah. Therefore when you allow a situation though it may seem to your judgment perhaps to be negative, when you simply come from your knowing self that this is also a part of my enfoldment, not an interruption, not a break in my momentum but a part of the added momentum, then you can allow yourself to manifest the symbol for the purpose. You may allow yourself to clairvoyantly, that is clear seeing, realize the purpose for the manifestation and in that way integrate it within yourself, allow it to do its job and it will go on its way and not stick around. Okay, there is no physical symbol that outlives its usefulness. As long as it exists it is because you have not allowed it to be useful and valid for the IDE ideas you are allowing yourself to explore within your Consciousness. As soon as you allow an idea to be valid and serve its purpose it will transform into something else and it will transform into the positive effect that you know it is there to achieve, you follow me?

**Q:** Yeah thank you for sure. Oh one moment are you through? Well no go ahead. I wanted to say that I thought you'd say something like that but I was hoping you'd say something like eat carrots.

**A:** All right why did you say eat carrots?

**Q:** Well vitamin A.

**A:** All right is that what you sense for yourself?

**Q:** Well I thought that might help a little but I think uh that is really it you know.

**A:** All right. What do you not think but feel might be a symbol symbol symbol symbol that will allow you acceptance of your belief system and allow you in that way to heal yourself?

**Q:** I don't think I understand what you're asking.

**A:** What do you feel will be a physical symbol? Carrot is a physical symbol yeah. Understand no carrot in the world cures you. You use the carrot as a physical symbol to cure yourself, yeah you follow me?

**Q:** Yeah. I don't think it's going to need a physical symbol.

**A:** All right very good. Yeah that's all. Then you may simply understand that you are already perfect. There is no idea nor concern of needing to reinforce the idea that you must try to become healthy, you follow me?

**Q:** Yeah I got you thank you.

# Difficulty and Progress

**Q:** Yes personally I have not found the uh truths that you manifested to be to be true to that to Great degree. I found that I can find Value in things that that have gone that I have judged to be negative I can yes convert them into valuable situations but I have not found that that uh that situation then vanishes. I find that or it returns automatically.

**A:** Um all right but allow me to say in that way then there is still a sense of separation from the idea itself in that way. You may be in that sense beginning to recognize the idea of situations as symbols yes but you are still in that way allowing them to be a framework which is somehow St outside your life itself, something which guides you as opposed to something which is you. Mhm. Anytime in that way you create the symbols for yourself to not be allowed to be you itself, then when you are going through the exploration of attempting to integrate your Consciousness, that is in that way when you are attempting to form the idea consciously that the idea in your life are you, then because you are working with that particular idea those symbols will return and return and return until you allow them to actually be you and not remain as simply tools outside yourself.

**Q:** Okay I understand the principle I am having diffability with workability.

**A:** No you are not. No that's your contradiction. No not a contradiction. We are simply in that way expressing that you have told us that you are creating the idea that you are having difficulty and therefore because you are creating the idea that you are having difficulty you are having no difficulty in creating at all. Having no difficulty creating that particular idea.

**Q:** All right but that wasn't the purpose I was talking about.

**A:** All right but understand as we have said that you are still expecting that idea to not fit in to the purpose you think you are trying to achieve.

**Q:** That is not true I I have all right but simply by definition by definition you are still saying I am having difficulty with this concept with this idea.

**A:** Realize in that way that when you simply allow yourself to vibrate to the idea that you are unfolding perfectly you will not give yourself the reflection or the sense that you are having difficulty with anything. The idea that you are having difficulty presupposes that you are judging what you think should be manifesting in your reality as opposed to what is manifesting in your reality which is a product of what you believe about your reality.

**Q:** True. All experience that I have had in being able to cause things results from a conscious causing from... May I ask you a question?

**A:** By all means.

**Q:** When you realize in that way that you are then the cause of actions in that way within your life do you then assume that it is something which has a limited duration in time?

**A:** Um not certainly. I I have the question that you're asking. In other words many individuals when they for the moment of the creation, for the moment of the recognition of themselves as the idea and as they perform that act of ultimate creation of ultimate knowing of ultimate being, then automatically we'll say oh that was very exciting now let me look around to find something else. Understand that it is in that way the Detachment Point itself. When you then place the idea of needing to look for other such experiences you are immediately creating a path from the experience you had to the next experience which creates a separation between them. There is no need to look for that next experience. There is only the need in a sense the allowance to understand that as you create one of those experiences you are in that very moment of time all that you are looking to be. And in that moment you can simply identify that the feeling in that sense represents that you have that creative connection. And then if it changes in the very next moment it is not that you have lost your momentum, it is not that you have to go seeking for something. It is simply that you have chosen to be physical and as you give yourself that creative connection then there is a purpose for the immediate in a time frame sense sensation of that immediate sensation of the now moment so that you can in that way integrate it within the physicality with regard to the I'll say overall agreement you have made with the MTH Consciousness in that way that you must absorb and then reflect that idea to many other individuals as well. Otherwise if you simply were going to be that one primary idea and only continue to exist as that one self creating idea there is then in many ways no need to be physical and you would simply not be. Since you are physical in that way then you give yourself the opportunity to reflect in those times in between the moments of Revelation to yourself to other individuals what it is you have Revealed to yourself. It is not downtime, you follow me?

**Q:** I agree there is no need to sustain one particular feeling. It serves the purpose of your choice of being in touch with all of these other consciousnesses to have the time in between those moments in order to share the experience through the methodology that you have chosen to be valid within your physical medium, that is talking about it feeling it expressing it so on and so on.

**A:** Understood.

**Q:** There is an apparency of a pattern in which it is uh effortless in the civilization to fail and you can just sit there do nothing and fail and uh not as easy to uh sustain um success happiness all right these sorts of things.

**A:** But understand that is an old habit of an old tool which you are now unlearning.

**Q:** I do understand that I am unlearning.

**A:** All right. Do not be impatient. You are unlearning in exactly the right amount of time for what it is everyone is choosing to learn. Say that again.

**Q:** You are unlearning it in exactly the right amount of time for the timing of everyone who is involved in the unlearning and relearning. How do I become of that when I don't really believe there is no way you can become certain of it if you do not really believe it right? Therefore that is your choice. It is your choice to make the idea of being able to believe it not difficult.

**Q:** That I understand. I have done many of these things I've had some fabulous experience.

**A:** Yes you always do and you always will. Simply allow the moments in between those fabulous experiences to also be fabulous experiences. Do not put judgment on them as to how they should feel or be. Simply live them.

**Q:** Problem you are still making a problem. You are still making a separation. You are still saying that there is something that is not fabulous.

**A:** That is true and I am and I've been over this and over this and over this and I'm seeking more looking at it you know. The objective is definitely to achieve the things that you're speaking of and I know you're say achieve puts it out there but in still working with it all.

**A:** All right but understand that is all right. That is your path. When you allow it to be your path it will shorten.

**Q:** Okay okay good that's helpful. One more question. How do I achieve something that I believe or have a feeling of knowing this is not going to happen and yet I want it to happen? Wanting will not get you anything.

**Q:** I know it won't that's what I'm asking you. I don't go about this. I have I have situations which I would love to materialize and I I find... May I ask you a question? Are there ideas in your life that you call physical habits that you have chosen to have from time to time?

**Q:** Yes.

**A:** All right how did you go about giving yourself that habit?

**Q:** Practice.

**A:** By thank you. Then you may practice other habits which have to do with the idea of knowing that these new habits will sooner or later get you into the habit of believing.

**Q:** Yeah I have a habit of looking for some easy way.

**A:** If that is the easy way... Believing is seeing, you follow me?

**Q:** Y I do.

# Telepathy and Channeling Phenomena

**A:** Fight you question. All right um last night I was exploring the idea of channeling just looking at the the phenomena of that with serious energy and uh and then I went and then I was exploring the idea of telepathy and um so um the um after I did this um I was sitting very quietly and um sing a whole bunch of occurred regarding one particular location which I found really fascinating with SH was a health food store on Third Street that I have shopped that in the past numerous times and probably will again. And it was like it was just like very instead of trying to hold her in place to figure out what was happening at the time I just allowed it to flow. It was all these various different um views of the place times I was there feelings I had things I bought like just a whole sequence of of views concerning that one location and that has occur to me before this. I found really interest can you tell anything about it?

**A:** Can you then what is there for me to tell you if you have told me everything?

**Q:** Well maybe I oh yes you have there is really nothing mysterious about the idea.

**A:** Again understand simply that there is no need in that way to question every little step within the entire idea of the blending of your Consciousness. You are already familiar with the idea of seeing in that way from many different perspectives, many alternate cells, many different time tracks, many different probable realities, you follow me? You understand the concept. Why then should it be a surprise when you begin to experience the concept?

**Q:** Well okay it was a little bit surprising but what I what I was I guess what I was looking for was like if this what the phenomena was like was it like an that I have that I suddenly you know integrated or you know that's that's basically.

**A:** All right. All right now realize we saying nothing wrong with that but again simply because you continue in that way to ask us we will always then remind you that there is no need to label the mechanism to have the experience. Life experiencing life experiencing life whatever it in that way gives you. In other words whatever you created to give you life is the only process the only mechanism you need to continue to experience to give yourself the opportunity to experience more of it. You do not need to label or specify mechanisms in that way to enable you the idea that then somehow you will be able to be more integrated with it. By the very fact that you had the experience that in and of itself self is the integration and you can simply go on now. Again it is your valid tool to create the labeling to create the idea of the identification of the mechanism that is all well or good but simply again that is your path that is your choice that is very creative. But always again since you are now in that level of Consciousness where you wishes to reflect this idea to you we are then Allowed by you to share with you the idea that the labeling is not necessary for the continuance of the experiencing.

**Q:** Mhm yeah I understand that thank you very much I appreciate that I I really do get that that was exactly what I wanted to thank you.

# Chance and Co-Creation

**Q:** Question yes um a being who called your Enid Channels with a friend of mine Chels to a friend of mine and she says that the concept of chance is a valid one and I'm wondering if you would com comment on um what chance is.

**A:** All concepts are valid as you create them to be Tools in that way. Chance will simply be the representation in physical terms of the idea that you have imposed limitations upon your conscious Viewpoint and in that way there will be the opportunity to surprise yourself, you follow me?

**Q:** Yes.

**A:** Then that will be one of the very valid mechanisms of learning about the self. Therefore you have introduce the very valid reality of Chance by limiting your connection to the higher Consciousness.

**Q:** I see but at that higher Consciousness level you are in fact creating every single detail yes. Does this also include somebody else creating the detail and just going into agreement with that with them in terms of that detail and kind of letting them be the Creator with you in agreement or right any sense?

**A:** But understand that everything you agree to experience you have to create for yourself okay. Therefore you are always automatically the Creator as well.

**Q:** Is it as active that is up to you? What I mean to say when you say by agreeing you are also um essentially the Creator is it is that Creation in um it is the same it's the same it's just as active as yes you are your own Universe. Yeah they are their own Universe. Any Creations they project in their universe that you decide to share and project within your own is the same quality projection yes and you have to take this active a part in creating it for yourself as you would if they didn't have the idea either right?

**A:** Yes okay.

**Q:** Um since we don't have since in in actuality there is uh what we create the past and future from the present then what we view as past wies and any influence from let me say quote influence un we understand all right is actually a leaking from one Consciousness to our current Consciousness here right kind of a leaking across some kind of a only in a sense that is still in itself a symbolic idea leaking. It is in that way simply a choice made by some level of your Consciousness to feel that certain aspects of the Here and Now present you are then being determined by those aspects of the past you which you are projecting to that point. But see recognizing that that past you isn't isn't in fact past that it's actually occurring right now yes it's like in a present time sense whatever is happening in that other quote time frame um which we view as another life is actually in present time yes influencing this present in it sense.

**A:** Therefore understand it is not leaking it is simply choosing many other Alternatives in the present because there is no leaking when it is all contained within one vessel.

**Q:** Yes I I only use leing as figurative yes but it implied the idea that it was having to go across time in that sense or that there was a separation between that idea and the idea it is leaking into.

**A:** Okay yes I was separating the consciousnesses since I have a you know present outer conscious now. In that way then yes it is a valid Viewpoint to say it is in a sense leaking.

**Q:** Oh good thank you.

**A:** One moment. Are you familiar with certain Concepts in the idea of what you turn them to be physics?

**Q:** Yes.

**A:** Do you understand in that way many times it is now said by your own scientists that the idea of attraction between different subatomic particles is now considered in that way not so much to be the idea of a force but an exchange of other particles any sense you follow me?

**Q:** Yes.

**A:** Then you can view in much the same way this idea of leaking as more the exchange of Consciousness which then binds the ideas together.

**Q:** Yeah thank you thank you.

# Expectancy and Manifestation

**Q:** Yes I'm I'm curious about expecting all right okay expectancy is that something that uh we use to well let me give an example all right thank you. Uh I've noticed that uh if I'm consciously expecting something even though I'm putting this object thing idea whatever of I'm putting it there when when what I'm looking for arrives it usually arrives at some point when I'm not conscious of it being there. When you are not expecting it right exactly exactly is and and I'm finding and I've I've played with this thing a long time and and I've wondered uh almost 99% of the time well 100% of the time as far as I can recall it's always happened if my mind goes away from it for a six second.

**A:** Yes that is because then you are allowing it through. Expectancy is what keeps it away. But understand also that it is not really in the way keeping it away when you are creating within your timing that one moment where it does shut down look the other way so it can manifest. So in that sense you may simply say your expectancy is simply filling in the time tapping its foot between the initial knowing of the creation of the incident and the physicalized manifestation of that same creation.

**Q:** Well if one is actually in the process of making things happen for him those around him his environment whatever consciously and I know that I have really made this decision I could go on...

**A:** You can do anything you wish okay.

**Q:** And and and I'm going to know that that's going to happen.

**A:** You are also going to know that whatever you do from that point forward will then integrate somehow into the manifestation.

**Q:** Oh so there is the Judgment okay yes. So if the Judgment comes in between that it um what creates an in between?

**A:** Follow me.

**Q:** I follow you. What do you what do you do to handle that and move you know it's it's it's that point of frustration when you know that you all right all right.

**A:** But understand that the frustration is also only created as a side effect of the Judgment. If you simply allow yourself to know that this is something that does synchronize with the vibration that is you and simply go on about your business of living and then still continue to know that whatever it is you are getting on about in your life will also blend in with the idea that is going to manifest then you will not need to judge and you will not be frustrated because you will be too busy enjoying your life.

**Q:** Which leads me to this question do I irritate you?

**A:** Never. Just curious there is no such thing as Idol curiosity. Understand in that way that your question to me is a reflection to how you are irritating yourself. Therefore simply all right but simply in that way realize that the only irritation you are giving yourself is that you are creating the idea of irritation. Okay which makes it very which makes it even more irrit understand it makes it a choice. Okay and if it makes it a choice CH then you can very consciously choose something else if you do not like the irritation you see. Responsibility having total responsibility for everything that you create is freedom because in that way you are then recognizing the idea of responsibility as choice not blame.

**Q:** Okay I see what you're saying underneath it I've understood what you've been saying for weeks to me. All right your own timing is your own valid timing okay and I and I pick up an extension each week of the question or conversation or whatever that all right okay. You are creating those ideas for yourself within a certain time frame okay but you are very generously allowing us to reflect to you. You are doing all the creation.

**A:** Okay how does that feel?

**Q:** It feels fine as long as I'm I'm I'm making some progress.

**A:** You always are creating. Always are creating. Progress is another judgment. You will always simply be different not better. You are always the best manifestation of whatever it is you happen to be creating at the moment. Progress is a judgment, you follow me? When you drop the idea of progress then you can enjoy every moment that you create as valid and you will take time to enjoy them not feeling that you have to quickly leave it and rush on to something which you know must be better out there somewhere.

**Q:** It's interesting because it's it's it's getting to the point that the more I understand it's like the more I want to the less I want to communicate.

**A:** Very good. Because my communications are basically all judgmental.

**Q:** All right now not necessarily but understanding that way that what you are expressing is simply that when you know there is no need to talk about it you simp do being. When you talk to another person yes you can be sharing that is all.

**A:** Right okay but simply we are saying that what you are expressing as a feeling this idea of what I just don't feel like talking about it is simply an expression of the idea that you are beginning to realize that when you know something you can simply be it live it. No need to jabber at yourself to convince yourself that you are in fact this idea. You the other person on that level you cannot help anyone. They choose to share your reality or not. You may share your ideas you may offer in that way a reflection of what you have created for yourself. That is how you can help in the best way by simply being the best you so that they will then if they are looking round for an example of that particular ideaa find you. If you're not being the best you they have nothing to find if they are looking for you, you follow me?

**Q:** I think so. Then you help other individuals by simply being.

**A:** All right all right all right by being. All right all right all right by granting yourself the validity to be an equally valid path within all that is.

**Q:** Thank you for giving that up.

**A:** Want that okay that's thank you for creating it so that we might share. Okay now may I say we enjoy you very much we enjoy all of you very much we enjoy all of you very much. Recognize that to us your willingness your allowance to share your Consciousness with us is for us a gift of unconditional love from you.

**Q:** Thank you thank you.

# Personal Connection and Timing

**Q:** Question when you talk about one moment guys um um may I say is quite enjoyable to be here in your presence yes every question that I've had has working on this afternoon has been answered before.

**A:** All right may I suggest in that way that we also enjoy being in your presence but recognize in that way that the answers were created from allowing yourself to be within your own presence totally.

**Q:** Yeah um I understand that thank you um I have some comments all right that happened the other day while driving all right they were doing some more aeric surgery yes okay and and um about 20 minutes or half now into the progress of this I was pulled over by a cop and um I wanted to I told them that if they're going to perform any more surgery while it be discreet the timing of like if I'm driving please be consciously aware of um things going around me that are get in trouble. All right now what type of experience did you have with that individual?

**Q:** Oh it's great.

**A:** Then understand that it may have been part of the overall unfoldment. Understand in that way it was an opportunity for you to then immediately make use of what changes had been made to experience them as positive feedback in the physical worldbe, you follow me?

**Q:** Yeah that was one idea behind that timing. Now in a sense recognizing that way that to them they know you're not going to really be as you say in trouble but it was in a sense a light-hearted joke you follow me? It gave you the opportunity to bring yourself after in that way the alterations to full access full alert. It was in that sense then shock treatment to bring you back to a certain level you follow me? The rapid reintroduction into your Society.

**Q:** Okay but um now that I've been on um exercising and kind of a strict diet. Strict yeah strict do you mean in that way simply what you feel to be essential to you?

**Q:** Yeah all right um I have been becoming more and more together speak.

**A:** Very good choice. Um when uh when when I together it's um everything works there is know there is nothing lacking that is the idea. Um so now when I meditate at night um before I go to sleep I when I wake up again I found i' been as traveling for a very very very long time and it's almost morning and I haven't even put the Sleep tape on so do I need to to tap anymore?

**A:** What do you think?

**Q:** No.

**A:** Thank you. Enjoy your Explorations. Enjoy the continuation in that way also recognize that there will come a level within in that sense the alterations whether there will be the aspect of your quote unquote togetherness which will then allow you more conscious communication with those individuals as well.

**Q:** I see that um this is this is getting fun.

**A:** Very good then it will move that much more rapidly.

**Q:** The more the more and more I learn and more question and now I'm finding the answers faster.

**A:** Yes so I don't you are becoming automatic consciously automatic.

**Q:** So I really don't need to ask the question.

**A:** Than you will you then in that way share something with me for a moment? Sure will you briefly simply and boldly physically touch the outstretched hand of the physical channel before you. We will stay here that here that was that was interesting. Sleep on it.

**Q:** Thank you very much thank you.

# Reflection and Dreams

**Q:** Yes um a question about reflection. If I'm talking to someone uh about you know anything about myself and they are not open to those ideas um it would seem to me that I would not be reflecting a portion of that person's self to them would that be true?

**A:** Understand simply by there may be many ideas that you may observe in that way does not mean you exactly contain the effect or manifestation of what you are observing nor vice versa. But it will be an opportunity to recognize that idea within yourself in whatever way you have allowed it to be integrated, you follow me?

**Q:** Not totally. I'm thinking about the other person let's say like talking to my mother about Channel I'm not sure exactly if she would be um Believe it or be interested in it and and if I'm talking to her about it um it's my understanding that I'm reflecting something uh I'm reflecting something about herself for.

**A:** Yes as long as you are not in the sense forcing the conversation. In other words you're saying if it s of flows easily.

**Q:** Yes if it doesn't flow easily then then I am forcing in there's no need to push anything. So if it flows easily then it is a reflection on some level for her?

**A:** Yes. Understand it may be a reflection if you force it as well but simply for you you not need to become caught in that symbol, you follow me?

**Q:** I I don't need to be okay in simple of course yes. Okay and just one other thing in I've been uh you know dreaming a lot more and becoming aware of other other realities all kinds of things. I'm wondering if there is any way to become even more conscious in my dreams that I...

**A:** All right first of all understand you have not been dreaming anymore you have become aware of what you have been dreaming, you follow me? Become aware you are always dreaming the same amount you always dreaming okay. You have simply become more aware of what you have been dreaming. Therefore simply the first step if I were to define a step in being more aware is to Simply recognize that you are always dreaming you dreaming right now. You can tap into it anytime you wish. Then there can be the blending between your dream and physical reality no separation. You can Live Your Dream many times. Understand in that way that what you represent to Yourself by the memory of a dream is not the experience itself but only the physical mental manifestation given symbols in a sense that you create for yourself through the outter aware of Consciousness so you can make some sense out of what you experience in terms of a physical Viewpoint of that experience. Simply recognizing that way that many times when individuals allow their dream reality and physical reality to become one reality they recognize that they are always dreaming and and in that sense since they are always dreaming they are experiencing their dreams and there may not be any reason to remember anything because you never wake up in a sense, you follow me? You never form the separation of waking up into a physical universe and therefore there is no need to create a memory of something which you consciously know you are continuing to experience.

**Q:** Well are you saying when that person is dreaming they know they're dreaming in that particular situation or they know they're...

**A:** You can know that you are dreaming right now I'm aware of that. You can become consciously interactive with it and if you allow yourself to do so that will be how you will be more aware of your dream reality. But understand that that connection may not give you more Dreams to Remember uh because you will then continue to dream and not wake up to remember them, you follow me?

**Q:** I you somewhere I will continue to. You have asked in that way how can I be I'll say more aware of my dreams but understand that the idea of the connections forming within your dream state is for the purpose of living your dreams. As you live your dreams then the idea of waking up from a dream reality into a physical reality becomes less and less defined and as you continue to live the dream then you do not need to form the symbolic manifestation of having a dream to remember. You simply continue to live the Dre.

**Q:** I understand that. Okay so it's it's all one one reality or one Consciousness. What I was referring to is like in my soal okay dream as I'm labeling it when I actually physically fall asleep sometimes when I am have been dreaming I know that I am dreaming.

**A:** Yes okay. That is the experiencing in the idea you call real time of the dream reality and in many times it is analogous to the idea you call astral projection.

**Q:** Me yeah. What I'm asking is how how to increase that awareness of dreaming in the dream and knowing I'm I'm doing that.

**A:** Why should you need to increase what is unfolding in perfect timing?

**Q:** I don't really need to. I understand that I was just wondering.

**A:** Then understand if it serves the purpose to feel if it serves your chosen purpose to feel that there is an increase in this idea you will have it. But simply understand the the basic idea is that you are blending your physical and dream reality and as such the increase can come from Simply allowing yourself to live the dream consciously all the time. Now what could be more of an increase than all the time, you follow me?

**Q:** Yeah I I was listening to a tape you and it really hit me last night of you said When We're Dreaming that's fourth density yes really blew me away because where did you go I think I went there for a short while.

**A:** Very good. It was it was great just gave me real awareness. All right now in a very literal way your own as you say idiomatic phraseology a BW me away in that way is very much a representation of the idea that when you are blown away you are experiencing yes a connection of a revelatory nature to yourself and as such you are momentarily projecting yourself to Fourth density to make the connection.

**Q:** Yes thank you.

# Atlantis Details and Factions

**A:** There will be in your terms of time few more minutes before your break.

**Q:** Question I have a question all right um I've been researching the city of Atlantis T there's some things that I'm just really not clear on. Was an entire land mass not so much restricted to the idea you call city was more in your terms continent?

**A:** Okay.

**Q:** Then then it would be the city of society or whatever. Well I I need some clarification on the uh the different factions as we might say today between the elders the children of the the uh the knowledge of one Children of the law of one and the sons of B why why what why do you need this clarification?

**Q:** I'm researching it for a for a an art form screen.

**A:** Do you feel in that way that you with your own intuitiveness cannot draw upon your own experiences at that time?

**Q:** Well I already have but I just need some uh clear delineation between unseparate sex.

**A:** What would you say if rather than ideas of clear delineation first you simply allow yourself to go through the experience however distasteful you may judge it to be of reliving things that you went through then in order to then come out of the experience with a clear delineation?

**Q:** Uh because I probably because well I know that I want to be exact and that I will be EXA.

**A:** You will be believe me if you live through it you will be exact. You will tell it like no one has ever told it.

**Q:** The reason I'm confused is because of the research I've been doing there's been SE uh different opinions such as uh well the different uh there's also uh kind the the the part of the automans or the the things or lower incarnate Souls that were used for Laborers yes. What about them? Well i' also like to know what the relation the exact relation that they were to the uh say to the elders and to the to the U Children of the law of one.

**A:** In relation it was the recognition in that way to them of spirit which chose to Pro project in that way itself into the experience of multi-level systems of Sociology. In other words for the experience in that way of acting as a reflection to those who had created the idea that they in that way were then better than others. They chose to be of service in that way and to allow themselves that which you would call The Suffering of that low position to allow then those individuals who had created the idea that there should be something subservient to reflect back to those individuals that then there was still many connections within Consciousness that could be made and to touch upon another creation of Separation guilt in having made the Creations to begin with.

**Q:** For those beings deform physical deformity that's different from as you would understand the idea of your normal quote unquote normal physiology?

**A:** Yes they were in many ways representation of the idea you would call animal characteristics mixed with human form NE in that to some degree although much in a variation of an idea more would be the idea as you express it in the re quote unquote discovery of what you now turn to be modern genetic engineering. There was then creation physically in that sense all beings that manifested attributes that you would now only attribute to animal form like pointed ears any a sense like Greek mythology points?

**Q:** Yes um yes. Who are the ruling Tails? Yes was there was there a ruling B oh right is there a ruling fashion um within that continent um between there was a spiritual form of people and there was a a faction that I take it as being the materialistic individuals that s pleasure as you have defined them already in that way as you have said in your carbonology sons of B. Well who called the shots I mean did someone make the decisions or was it just um the individual?

**A:** There was a council of what you told to be the elders in that way on the positive side. There was more with in the idea you turn the Senate then some denters and some controlling factions. There were many different political variations of the idea even as in your present Recreation of your Society you call United States of America which in many ways is an exact replication of Atlantis. Again understand therefore that within many of the different ideas of administrative levels there are positive and negative in that way. So there was in a sense a sharing of both. There was to some degree a greater positive in the what you term the upper echelons but there was enough descent and enough Des centers to split in that way many of the factions and create the idea of War among themselves Civil War.

**Q:** Did uh was these sen and and uh composed of after the first destruction or prior to that?

**A:** Prior. So shortly after the U the initial incarnate beings entered the planet?

**Q:** No not really. Understand there are many many hundreds of thousands of years tens of millions of years from incarnate beingness upon your planet to the idea of the creation of Atlantis.

**Q:** So where did the first atlantans come from I mean Didia so it was actually an evolution of human of a human being that came to that point any sense?

**A:** Yes and they migrated yes in the same way that you have formed what you turn to be a colon of your own United States of America. Atlantis was a colony of Lura and which achieved as again yourone United States has paralleled high technological advancement in excess of its original parent country.

**Q:** So then Lumia was first and in atlantan yes it was like the Revolutionary War almost. Um also where is the concept of Adam and Eve if there was an eve or whatever come in as far as Simply Be allegorical to the idea of the injection in a sense projection of non-physical Spirits into physicality at all it is symbolic in that way prior to L Maria in a sense yes you follow me?

**Q:** Yes thank you thank you.

# Dimensions and Density

**Q:** You may take short break oh right say question what's the fourth dimension?

**A:** Many ideas. Understand that there will be a definition in that way that primarily it will represent that level of vibrational existence wherein you can be consciously and actively aware of the fact that your reality is created by you. Now there is physical force dimensionality force density experience and non-physical. In that sense you may then simply understand that non-physical fourth dimensionality will represent the idea you call to a great degree the dream state and the afterlife State. Physical fourth dimensionality fourth density vibration will be still in a sense a physical reality as is the third in which you are now but will be more consciously recognized as being controllable in that sense valuable in that sense formable in that sense and I'll say consciously coincidental with all the other consciousnesses sharing that reality with you. There will be the opportunity physically in fourth density to perceive yourself as lighter literally brighter in a sense. In other words you will see the reality round by to be more positively active. You will understand in that way the entire relationship and course and continuity of any idea. You will have opportunity to experience directly then the idea of being the cause and the effect in the same event. Will this have answered your question?

**Q:** Yeah but I got one more all right. Is well is there like a two Dimension I mean like a second diens or something?

**A:** Yes in a sense it will be represented symbolically second density level in that way as you understand it by what you turn to be animal Consciousness and also in that way many times what you turn to be energy wise Matrix wise geometric the idea in that sense of two-dimensionality without a third. Understand that way it is simply an expression of the planar existence of Consciousness in such such a way that it forms a foundation or basis for the rise or expression of thir density level from it.

**Q:** Okay I have a question all right um do uh some animals exist on a third density basis?

**A:** All animal Consciousness in some way shape or form transcends all densities okay. The idea you experience as animal Consciousness for the most part is third but they will be always the guides symbolically for what you are in a mass conscious sense and an individual conscious sense experiencing. Therefore they are in some way shape or form forming Bridges from third to Fourth density right?

# Relationship with the Entity

**Q:** Now okay I have another question yes I know that at least some of the people if not all of them in this room um feel that they have a personal relationship with you of some sort um. I personally like you and enjoy you very much and I feel like I have a personal relationship um acknowledging that you are just one um acknowledging that you are just one being uh for each of us whereas we are many beings for you. I'm wondering do you feel that you have a personal relationship with each of the beings in this room? I know that you recognize Us by our signature vibrations um.

**A:** Always within the willingness of any individual to share the vibration of my being n that becomes instantaneously a personal relationship.

**Q:** So like I know that after um a channeling I I will go home and I'll think about things you said or jokes You' cracked or whatever like that and just enjoy it. I'm wondering if you have that kind of a consciousness of our being us um in other times we do not so much feel in many ways that we are ever completely though we recognize the difference in the form of communication but we do not so much feel that we are ever completely out of touch with you.

**A:** Literally because there are many many different levels to your Consciousness which do continue conversation in a sense after in this way we break this form even on an individual basis yes.

**Q:** True.

# Source of Answers

**Q:** Question I all first the first one is is most of the time now of white getting answers questions answered uh through iide is through your people to evidently answer that question.

**A:** Only in a sense it is through your representational creation of the same vibrational energy you are for the most part answering them yourself right. It's a like a you are using our vibrational energy and our representation as a tool for yourself.

**Q:** Yes okay thank you.

# The Bright Star

**Q:** Uh I wanted to share something with you B is every night uh when I go to bed I look out of my window and there's this tremendously bright star the moment I look all around a star I see this it's there all night uh and it seems like it's even an optical illusion or to me it sometimes moves to quite a degree uh Fast Back Again.

**A:** It will be to a great degree as you describe it in a sense an optical illusion and serious than you understand also in that way that as you have said when you utilize the idea of another recognizable vibration as a tool for you to work through because we are willing in our way to be conscious of that vibration wherever it is is being created then you can also to some degree say that we are conscious and in that way also of assistance in simply joining into the experience of your creation of the similar vibration through which you then give yourself your own answers. For us then it is also an enjoyable experience than you.

# Songwriting and Creativity

**Q:** I would like to ask question. I have uh in the past written many many songs children's songs which have been validated over um um okay I I don't feel that they are quite my I feel like I have a coworker some place working with me and all these uh and all of a sudden I don't feel like I am too close to this being anymore and I would like to contact why?

**A:** Because more opportunities to to expand on on what makes you think so?

**Q:** What Mak than so the idea in that way there will be more opportunity to create these songs if you reestablish contact in that way as you have created it.

**A:** Understand simp that many times again as we have said the idea you call interim is not interim and contains its own richness in that way that will allow you more of the formation of the idea of your particular part in the creation of those songs. Then if there is been the idea of the acceptance and allowance within yourself of your own strength your own part your own creative Endeavors within the creation of those songs then there may be opportunity to rejoin in that way but it will simply be a reinforcement of the idea that you enter any relationship already whole and not in need of the other side of the relationship to Feel Complete, you follow me?

**Q:** I follow you. Um I don't think that I was I feel okay it's a part I feel it's a part mean uh does not matter what it is the idea is that if you feel you are quote on quote on your own for the time being that is what you need to allow to be yes. Then you will enjoy the aloneness and you will enjoy the creativity you can find within yourself within that aloneness and then there will be the opportunity to re-enter the co-creation being a complete aloneness to begin withh you follow me?

**Q:** Yes I do. Then that also will have to do with the style which will then adapt to a new expression with regard to the changes that are taking place within the mass Consciousness as they will then begin to perceive those songs.

**A:** Yes that's what I was proing to thank you.

# Touching the Channel

**Q:** Question yes may I touch the CH you're using why i' like experience why I don't have a judgment I just experience it in your imagination for the moment how do it feel?

**Q:** It's still feels like something is is lacking.

**A:** All right then when something is not lacking perhaps the physicality will REM manifest okay you follow me? Understand in this way also it will simply be again not for the purpose of what you turn to be relegating any more importance to that exchange as it took place between ourself and that individual. It will simply have been according to the timing involved. Each individual has their own timing their own manifestation in physical symbology of Connections in that way and at this time simply realize that it was an opportunity for you to reflect back to yourself how this situation can be viewed as you feel that in that way unless such and such were to occur in a certain physical manner something would be lacking. This is then your opportunity to integrate that idea within yourself so that you will create for yourself to begin with the idea that nothing is lacking. This on an overall sense will also then be the manifestation which is I'll say a part of the vibration that will allow us to interact with you on a physical face Toof face level when you do not feel that anything is lacking because a face Toof face interval is not happening, you follow me?

**Q:** How do you feel?

**A:** Feel like something's why I don't have a l yet I don't know I don't know.

**Q:** What does it feel like to have something lagging?

**A:** It feels like it's okay I know it's a process.

**Q:** All right very good as my judgment is just time is in good as my judgment is just time is in the way I just want to get time is never in the way or I'm putting it there.

**A:** Not necessarily understand again all right all right let us take this allow your imagination for a moment to tell me what do you imagine would occur were you to touch the physical Channel. Go ahead playe pretend what do you imagine would occur if you were then in a sense in touch physically with the child that some sort of mental as well as physical sensation.

**Q:** Why best I can give you right now.

**A:** Do you realize that if you know you would experience mental and physical Sensations that you would still be creating them for yourself?

**Q:** I do now You' thank you then we have touched like you thank you.

# Persistence and Creation

**Q:** Question sure yes how are things how do we cause things to persist in physical dimensionality?

**A:** By Separation by Focus by judgment by analyzation by feeling that you have to make something happen instead of allowing creation to happen.

**Q:** Is it necessary to alter something in order to cause it to persist in this universe?

**A:** Only yourself. Understand that when you are willing to be active in what excit you you will then not experience the time between Revelations. Become imaginatively active in what excites you. If there are no parameters invent them, you follow me? Begin your own idea from the beginning. If you feel that something is viable for you and valid as an undertaking in your world as something you would wish to experience and express and create as a quote unquote living by all means if it is not exist create it. Therefore you will not feel you have to wait around for someone else to come up with some way to achieve it. You will not feel you have to search for methods which already may exist by which you may attain it. You will be being it by creating your very own methodology. You will be being it by creating the foundation for the idea itself, you follow me?

**Q:** Yes I do.

**A:** You will be giving birth to a new you.

**Q:** Thank you thank you.

# The Phrase "Anto"

**Q:** Question yes yes are you familiar with the phrase nto?

**A:** We understand the source uh okay.

**Q:** My understanding is that it came out of a 1950s science fiction film is that um a source that you also recognize as a source for this phrase?

**A:** In a sense though there was to some degree the connection within what you turn to be the author to the idea identity that there was a vibration to which they were connecting, you follow me?

**Q:** Yes and other words he wasn't just making it out of thin air he um any sense it was both it was an identification and then the author's very own willing creation of their representation of that vibration sort of like each it in a sense yeah but it was the intent not so much the literal terminology.

**A:** Uhhuh only the literal terminology is what represented to the author the feeling of the intent. Got it you follow me?

**Q:** Yes I do.

# Crystals and Imagination

**Q:** I have one more question based on discussion last week. I decided I'd like to give myself a crystal and um I know I didn't have to worry about the mechanics of finding it because it would just kind of come to me and uh lo and behold uh Monday I was in Disneyland and uh there is this little stand of guy selling crystals and it I knew it was I knew instantly was opportunity slapping me in the face so to speak. Slapping you in the face?

**A:** Well I knew that I knew that this was the opportunity that had come to me.

**A:** All right we understand the terminology um but selecting the crystal was not as immediately um I I don't know the term to use but I didn't have an immediate attraction to one Crystal.

**A:** But you did to the idea of how it was presented to you follow me?

**Q:** It meaning the C the crystal that I bought or or the opportunity?

**A:** The opportunity or the opportunity.

**Q:** I understood all right. Why is that not also a crystal?

**A:** The opportunities of Crystal.

**Q:** You're saying yes I'll accept that. Go ahead. What I'm saying though is that um in selecting an individual Crystal to it was not immediately which one. All right go ahead okay so um but I decided what the heck whatever I bought it would be perfect anyway.

**A:** Very good that is what we are saying. It is the opportunity which provides the automatic understanding not the specificity okay of the symbols involved.

**Q:** Yeah so I just kind of just decided on one got it. Has many many facets and it's kind of round uh and now my question is now what do I do with it?

**A:** Whatever you wish. Use your imagination. What you have now bought all right all right all right we will use our imagination as well. You have now bought a new lens for your projector. The projector is your imagination machine. Fit that Crystal in your imagination into the lens of that imagination machine. See what you get projecting through it h on your imaginary screen. M then perhaps you will see all the different things you can do with it possibilities within you. You have already done one follow me?

**Q:** I will have done one by putting it in the machine.

**A:** Yeah you will have already done one thing with that Crystal certainly. You will have allowed yourself to be in touch with the symbol of your imagination in that way and opened up an Avenue for viewing all possibilities within you.

**Q:** Um is that what a crystal basically is?

**A:** Yes imagination yes it is is a symbol of the vibration of reality itself of existence in a sense of the idea of the differentiation and diversification of all the different viewpoints within the energy Matrix of creation of existence as each and every one of you are a facet of all that is, you follow me?

**Q:** Yes I I was aware that the many faceted of this particular Crystal was in C way is represented of me um and it was just annoying.

**A:** Yes yeah okay. Is uh so then in other words it's not necessary to have a physical Crystal form we can go beyond that and uh you know yes thank you. And is there any relation with that with the etheric crystals?

**A:** Any yes would you care to elaborate on that at all or later?

**Q:** Later thank you. Sure then did I create the crystal that I have as an opportunity to amuse myself till I came to my timing for do not devalue a symbol as you created well all right all right all right amusing yourself but your tone of voice was just to amuse me while I was really waiting for the important thing to keep me occupied.

**A:** All right all right Amusement yes enjoyment yes very valid. Understand in that way also that it is the active representation of your creative ability follow me? No you have created the opportunity to come into contact with the symbol of your willingness to connect to more of yourself. Therefore that Crystal in and of itself is a part of the creation. Are you thank you guys of people St here uh have this symbol and have this love for and I is this thing I know I have as why do you actually just adore feel great about this little being story from what is it so fantastic I can't quite put my fing I feel great.

**A:** How can you be so in the dark about that idea when you already have expressed many times the idea of the excitement and joy of finding within yourself connections to other levels of your Consciousness and the ability to Express them of course thank you. I don't know it is represented Now. Understand that is's not a judgment and do not judge yourself and do not judge your judgment. Understand in that way that you are simply representing the idea at this time in what you turn to be as with us extraterrestrial terms because that will now be the L of willingness to represent the idea of expansion of your Consciousness. As you then begin to realize you are expanding into space you will also be expanding within and realizing in that way that as a symbol of your own Connection in the sense to other civilizations including other civilizations which are you you will then come to realize that is simply the idea symbol as it has been manifested within your Society at this time. Recognizing that way that to a degree in a very literal way well none of you are really original to this planet, you follow me?

**Q:** Yes and the idea in that way is discovering that no matter where you are is home, you follow me?

**A:** Yes thank you.

# Pursuit of Understanding

**Q:** Question yes is there a need to pursue understanding if you create within your understanding a need to do so?

**A:** Uh I'm not sure I got needs are created. Needs are are created they are again perhaps tools. Should we pursue another never should we will never in that way say should to follow me that would be a recommendation for your life from us which we will not do. In that sense there are no shs should not, you follow me?

**Q:** Yeah I guess when I'm going to what I need to know is I often hear you say understand and then you complete the all right.

**A:** Allow me to suggest that many times there will be within the terminology of your vernacular that must be used then some what maybe term discrepancies from time to time. Understand in that way simply that all we are saying is that is an opportunity for you to view that portion of yourself that is being discussed but in is it viewing something or pursuit of understanding in a sense? But recognize that simply the idea of needing to pursue understanding is an old habit. You are now beginning to understand that you are understanding. Okay so the more one understands knows the more one knows that one already understands the less one will need to pursue that which he or she already knows he or she has. That is why we say understand because we understand that you already do understand.

**Q:** Which then I can it be safe to conclude that sa once what would be dangerous to conclude this this is all right well we are having a great deal of fun.

**A:** Fun okay well from our point of view so are you in creating this very very fascinating idea of difficulty.

**Q:** Okay well everybody in this room comes here for a reason right okay uh some might suggest that it's Enlightenment.

**A:** Some might but one cannot be enlightened by somebody else you know and very good. It's there's a tendency to get real frustrated on my part when I'm in tendency all right of understanding.

**A:** Yes when you feel your pursue it then you may have a tendency to become frustrated because the idea of pursuing gives you enough time to create the idea of frustration. When you know you have it already then there is no need to pursue there is no time to create frustration because time is Created from separating yourself from the idea and only within the creation of separation can there be frustration.

**Q:** Sounds like a lot of practice.

**A:** Nope it is simply doing. Now again do not judge the path you have created. You are getting in a sense in your terminology exactly where you need to get.

**Q:** Thanks oh thank you. What brought you here?

**A:** I brought me.

**Q:** Very good. You will always bring yourself exactly where you need to be. Therefore what are you pursuing since you always wind up exactly where you need to be?

**Q:** That's beautiful I could just keep that if if I feel that if I do not remember and repeat this to myself moment to moment to moment somehow it will slip away to somewhere I do not know where. There is nowhere for anything to slip away to but I know somehow it will slip away elude my grassp. I will have to run after it I will get very tired and frustrated having to run after it.

**A:** Oh why don't you come back?

**Q:** I am tired of running. Oh now that I am tired of running I see it didn't really go anywhere at all it has always been right here with me. What was I running around for?

**A:** Perhaps just to find out I didn't need to run. That will be one of the ideas of limited physical reality to run to find you not need to run which is a part of process isn't it? It is life and simply you can make of Life whatever you wish. Therefore as we have said do not judge your path live your path enjoy your path and it will then go by quickly not allowing her to be enough time to create frustration. Everything will be happening to you all at once you will be so excited you will not have time to think you will only have time to do that periodically happens.

**A:** All right again understand that when it does in that moment your entire reality is of that nature. There is no such thing as a part idea. It is not that you all I do this sometimes but then compared to this other times blah blah blah as you say. Understand in that way that simply when you are experiencing any one reality that that is your entire reality at that moment. If it changes then you change of your own choice the entire reality but if you have changed the entire reality of your own choice you can change it back again as well. But if it does not change back again by simply letting it change however it needs to change then you know that whatever changes are taking place are exactly the changes that need to be taking place and so you can then say well then I must always then be creating the perfect reality even though I may not judge with my judgment them to be they must be therefore I can relax and enjoy what I am creative because each and every one of them is a perfect manifestation okay.

**Q:** Manifestation okay thanks.

# Writer's Research and Doing

**Q:** Thank you I'd like to elaborate ask a question elaborating on what he said oh right um in pursuing um matters say information for a all right for if you're a writer and you're pursuing information of something that has happened to write it down the piece of paper you know that it's it's already happened okay and everything's gone by and this is something that to do that say you're here to do as you know in Severance to um to mankind U and if it isn't researched and uh pursued physically then it will not get down on the paper for everyone to see uh or for everyone to read or see as a result of that writing um unless that servitude is pursued um as opposed to knowing that it's already there.

**A:** Simply also understand that many times it is simply a matter of your own definitions. Pursuit in that way does not necessarily have to carry the idea of effort. Understand simply that you are quote unquote pursuing understanding by allowing yourself to simply be attracted to the situation you need or allowing those situations to be attracted to you and then acting upon them. That is also quote unquote pursuing understanding. You are still doing that. Makes sense pursuing is doing, you follow me? Not struggling. Pursuing is doing.

**Q:** Thank Youk thank you.

# Extraterrestrial Observation

**Q:** Question yeah you mention that you meaning your Society has been watching our society for a long time and I'm wondering by what means does your Society watch our society with our eyes also through Consciousness through telepathic connection, you follow me?

**Q:** Yes um in terms of using your eyes does this mean physically being here with your ships from time to time?

**A:** Yes uhuh uh.

**Q:** Are you talking about then um now like the details uh the the fine details of what might go in go on in a household it would seem to me if you're going to view it with your eyes you'd have to be close enough physically to see it or do you have other means to observe that kind of goings on?

**A:** In a sense but it will always be within the connection of the allowance and willingness of the entities in that way concerned with that household.

**Q:** Um conscious allowance or not necessarily not at first but many times then when communication is made it becomes conscious.

**A:** Uhhuh all right allow me to phrase it this way there will be that communication made when it is the potential that it will then immediately become conscious. I understand otherwise it would not serve the purpose.

**Q:** Is this then by um actually uh transporting and I know the the means by which you do that transporting uh your uh physical bodies here doing that or would it be being uh one of your beings being born into a human human form on this planet and can we both?

**A:** Uh it is both then.

**Q:** Yes thank you.

# Incarnated Leaders

**Q:** Question are any of those beings that are being incarnated u in a position of leadership for the people?

**A:** Many of them have begun to find themselves in those positions as you described them but understand that way that what they are beginning to understand is that there is no need to be a leader. There is only the idea that they are in a position of leadership quote unquote to be of service to allow every individual to know they are their own leader. And as such you will find then that the structures that you call leadership structures when occupied by those individuals will transform from leadership structures to reflective structures and follow me?

**Q:** Yeah thank you. Are these particular beings or some of them fully consciously aware that they did incarnate for the purpose of communicating?

**A:** Some some.

# Gratitude and Identity

**Q:** Question sometimes when I'm feeling very I guess enlightened you guess enlightened okay sometimes feel I guess I'm enlightened now just beat me okay anyway there are times when I might uh consciously say thanks bash or Dr or uh consciously say thanks bash or Dr or whoever uh when I'm feeling very good.

**Q:** All right what about thanking you just well I do that too I'm that habit is beginning to all right thank you do you feel that feel what do you when you think in that way?

**A:** When you are within the vibration as we have said that is equal to our own we will sense the idea in an overall sense. We do not always necessarily have to be specifically aware, you follow me? It will add the idea of conviction and Assurance to the momentum that is taking place between our societies and that we will always sense. Sometimes we will sense the specific individuals yes it depends upon where our focus is at the time. But realize it will not matter whether we sense it or not you are still creating it. You have yourself to thank if any thanks are necessary.

**Q:** Thank you.

# Daryl and the Channel

**Q:** Question all right um idea all right just for a moment okay moment not yet okay um I all right now time's up would you like an extension all right go ahead extension all right go ahead specific about it until I finish um I had the idea about taing before that um was like in the instance of Daryl and yourself that like darl just kind of flit for a while you know it's like he took off and he used his body or something but not no I know when I was talking about this last night um there was something quite different that that transpired and it was interesting because what it it appeared to be was that first of all what was Sting me was darl doesn't go anywhere where is darl to go where going okay and U there was there was there was something about a shift of focus but even that was not what I thought it was and I said well and then it there was like a lot of things that were said and then basically what it brought down to was that Daryl is actually the bridge or the it's like it's done through Daryl or darl is an intrical part of that art wouldn't transpire the way it does is that true I mean is that is that the way it works?

**A:** Every symbol which is manifested for an unfoldment is always an integral part of that unfoldment. Thus the physical channel is a symbol we are a symbol. It is the experience itself which is first and foremost. In other words the words the interaction in a sense exists before the creation of the symbols that then seem to cause the interaction to occur. Thus the principle of the communication of the sharing of the vibration itself exists and projected from that idea which is actually the Consciousness that is myself and the physical Channel then is projected the idea of myself and the physical channel. The interaction itself is the being with whom you are dealing and that is why we say you are are the event of your life.

**Q:** Right yeah that's the event is the being with whom you are dealing the physical beings involved are projections of the event.

**A:** Yeah right exactly.

# Telepathy vs Verbal Communication

**Q:** Now um and one more thing having to do with the idea of tathy um I was looking at like for instance uh we use vocal communication here through dar's body and with our body now let's say that we use no physical verbal communication all right we use no physical verbal communication. I said it you did not say it. Okay and so let's are you going to say it or are we going to say something else?

**Q:** No I I'm just saying what I was going to say.

**A:** Oh you keep saying let's say this let's say that okay I all right you have a concept okay you want to transmit the concept so that we're all going to uh have the concept now if you do that telepathically and we we each would pick it up or we each would have it simultaneous with your creation of it but since we're each totally unique universes in our own right we would each be creating that you are anyway.

**Q:** Yes okay you are receiving it telepathically but also there is the idea manifestation that through the physical idea you will then from the idea symbology of physicality you have created make sure to a greater or lesser degree that you are in unison, you follow me? It is again a projection an idea but we make use of it in that way because that is what you are agreeing to substantiate the idea that you all experience the same thing even though you all are receiving it tell telepathically. Right it is your feedback system.

**Q:** That's interesting I I was just looking at that thinking that it would be very um sort of stimulating you know at some point that we would you know have our Chann sessions like telepathically in that's all I have to thank you.

# Pyramids

**Q:** Question yes uh is there a certain form of a pyramid which um has the greatest potential for concentrating energy or whatever it is that pyramids do as your particular for many different Crystal and forms of that idea that will represent channelings of different types of energy they will be different not best simply different.

**Q:** Uhuh what do you wish I I'm interested in one that um tends to uh preserve freshness Vigor energy um youth all those kind of you know all those things in one all in the same one.

**A:** Yes some pyramid if you then wish to embody that idea in the symbol you do recognize it is a symbol yes like you learn you may choose the one you have recognized in that way at what you turn to be Giza.

**Q:** Mhm do you can you give me the dimensions of that?

**A:** Can you not find them within your literature?

**Q:** Yeah I suppose I could I was hoping to take a shortcut.

**A:** You the proportions as expressed in your literature sure you will find them the angle to be approximately 55° Bas line in that way as you would call it Bas line for one particular manifestation of size to then be nine what you turn to be 9 38 in height 8 78. In this will give you the approximate dimensional ratio is is an approximation just as good as an exact proportion within 3% will be all right.

**Q:** Okay thank you. Question is it possible to uh create your own pyramids without having a physical structure?

**A:** Of course for the same purposes yes.

# Arcturus and Gathering Places

**Q:** Yes question yes um you mentioned that the M May uh re incarnate into uh children right where down this planet in particular household did I follow you right on that?

**A:** At this time allow me to say the majority in that way of incarnations are not from our civilization.

**Q:** There some not quite yet thank you. Is there a majority of one civilization only?

**A:** In a sense there will be the idea of many civilizations represented by the spirit form the soul form as having been connected and are being connected to many different civilizations but there will be in a sense a channeling of this idea in other words A Gathering Place from which they then usually will be projected the majority being projected from the Gathering Place you call Arcturus. It will not necessarily represent the idea you would call their point of origin I understand thank you but it will do to represent the idea.

**Q:** Question sorry I didn't understand what are you sorry for?

**A:** Oh I'm not sorry thank you. What did you mean by the it was a Gathering Place I didn't understand that. I mean I know what Gathering means but I didn't understand it within the Contex of what?

**A:** In a sense when many individual non-physical consciousnesses now this will occur with physical Consciousness as well but simply in the example we are giving with non-physical Consciousness that wishes to identify with a particular vibration and inject themselves project themselves into a certain vibrational physical reality many times they will then pass through in a sense in a sense the civilization that represents the way station in charge of that vibration, you follow me? In charge of that particular project these are all very colloquial terms and not meant to be literal nor EXA act. Basically whatever to it would be as if you had created in your terminology by analogy a company that represents one particular type of output. Now any individuals wishing to express that particular type of output then would join your company and therefore all other individuals say well that individual no matter what his point of origin now comes from that company. Yeah you follow me?

**Q:** Yeah we just enable those beings or individuals to identify with the vibration and get a focus.

**A:** Yes focus.

# God and Honesty

**Q:** There will be in your terms of time a few more of your minutes remaining. Question yes um what is as's term for or their idea of God?

**A:** All that is.

**Q:** All that is so uh the conventional or the mass idea more or less in plan through Christian terms of the Supreme Being so that's uh that's not right.

**A:** There is no right there is no wrong. So how could you put it in perspective for simply many times individuals upon your planet when they Define the idea you call God will simply not allow it to be literally all that is. In other words even though God as you call it may be omnipresent you understand the term omnipresent yes they will not understand that being omnipresent means that then God must also occupy the space in which they are. They still see God as separate from themselves. All that is is simply all that is conscious of itself in that way conscious of itself as the collection of all within it and creating those individual consciousnesses to also be able to recognize themselves as separate and also themselves as all that is.

**Q:** Yes I got that thank you. Yes do you see us as honest beings who are really honesty in that way really has no meaning for us we simply see you as creators creating what you wish to create. Your Creations are always to use your term honest reflections of what you choose to perceive about yourself.

**Q:** Do you prepare do you prepare before you come before us?

**A:** In one meaning of the term zi in a sense my positioning into to what will be to some degree represented by you as a meditative State.

**Q:** Yes are your eyes closed?

**A:** Not always.

**Q:** When you finish with us for instance on a nightly basis do are we discussed among the other you know in terms of in terms of uh in a sense in a sense but many times those levels of conversation communication take place simultaneously, you follow me?

**Q:** Yeah but you are not talked about as if oh those poor people.

**A:** No that was not uh.

**Q:** What do you do on the off time if there's a such thing Al things?

**A:** Understand that there will be other individuals with whom we are in contact in the same manner as the physical channel before you. There is also the idea of what you turn to be technical engineer of spacecraft, you follow me? There will be contact with other civilizations which will be taking place upon which I have been too many in terms of the initial contact the setting up of the contacting, follow me?

**Q:** So are there a lot of civilizations that has not been contacted in a sense by us?

**A:** Yes although we are to some degree aware of more than we have physically encountered, you follow me? Mhm there are many many many many many many many many many many hundreds of millions of civilizations as you would call them throughout the Multiverse.

**Q:** Do we all know each other from for civilization?

**A:** Many of you do not all.

**Q:** Is there some commonality that exists?

**A:** Yes you are here by association of the agreement in that way to partake of the transformational experience which this particular planetary vibration is undergoing at this time for your own purposes and for the purposes you are willing to share with many other individuals. In other words to use your vernacular in one idea in one idea this is where where it is all happening. This is the place to be for that particular experience.

# Time and Day Length

**Q:** Thank you. Do you have a set number of hours in your day?

**A:** There will be a physical representation by what you term to be the rotation in a sense of our planetary body, you follow me?

**Q:** Yeah I guess I'm I'm trying to get a sense of before you had said that sometimes when you meet with us what would seem to us be to be next week is the same we do not in that way so much keep track of time as you do.

**A:** No we can inject into it in a sense when it serves the purpose of the communication.

**Q:** So you don't necessarily focus on well okay you not care when we do anything you just do it.

**A:** Yes.

**Q:** How long?

**A:** No okay thank you. There will be however the idea you call right approximately 25 and one4 of your hours to our day M, you follow me?

**Q:** Yes.

**A:** Sh that always we enjoy the sharing of our Consciousness with yours. We thank you for your willingness to extend the sharing of your Consciousness with ours and many others. From this sharing is always produced the unconditional love which is the support foundation for all creation. Therefore recognize that by allowing yourselves to be yourselves you are being of service to all that is and in being of service to all that is you are automatically supported as a part of it.

