---
heading: Part 1
title: "Self Created Journey"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1985-01-27
icon: Bashar
weight: 2
showdate: true
tags: ['drugs']
---



One of the primary ideas behind your own sense of growth, your own sense of self-awareness and expansion will be that as you move further and farther through yourself, expand further and further within yourselves. 

You will find that what you turn to by various systems of education, methodology and so forth will begin to appear more and more to you simply as various tools in various forms. You will begin to realize that it is each and every one of you that is the sole determining factor to your own sense of your own growth and awareness, not the methodology. 

They will simply be tools for you to as it were trigger an idea within you. Bounce an idea from yourself off your mirror back to yourself. That mirror being, the reality you have created round and about your center of consciousness which appears to you to be so solid and so real, but which is really only in a sense a projection, if you will, off of yourself created screen by which you have created physical dimensionality and with which you determine the extent of your progress within that idea of physicalness. Do you all follow me so far? Yes. Yes.

Now you may also begin to realize in your self-created journey. But as you become more and more aware, you will find your reality will become in your terms more and more transparent, so to speak. In other words, you will be able to very readily if you allow yourself to do so, see exactly the ways and the wherefores of circumstances within your physical lives. You may be able in a sense to sit back and view ideas and situations as they occur to you and realize very very clearly exactly what part you played in the creation of that little act and what ideas that act is there to represent to you, what you need to draw from that well and apply to your own manifestation of reality. Do you follow me so far? Yes. All right.

You may also find that you will come to realize that your sense of momentum, your energy, your sense of expansion will to a degree allow you to feel that time is in a sense collapsing for you. Things will rush very quickly to completion. You will find yourself being able, as it were, in your terms, to hop from idea to idea, reality to reality, realizing that there will always be, always be more to experience, more to create. You will never run out of ideas. You need not fear that the idea of perfection is boredom. Know that you allow yourself to expand into whatever endeavor you desire to undertake to its fullest most boldly created form. You will find that there will always be more creation for you. It is never ending.

Realize that you are already perfect. There is no perfection to reach. Each and every one of you functions perfectly. No matter whether you create in your terms positive or negative creation, you are doing so perfectly at the moment of creation. Your machine, if you will, your creative machine is functioning flawlessly. You are always in control. Even when you create a situation so that it seems, seems, seems that you are out of control. Do you follow? And so you create those situations very perfectly.

Now in allowing yourself to realize that you are a perfect creator at each and every moment of time that you no time to exist, then you will be able to allow yourself to realize that if you have created a situation which you do no longer desire, you may just as instantaneously, one moment having nothing to do with the last moment, create another reality for yourself. Each and every moment of time as you know time to exist is in and of itself a separate whole universe, a separate whole idea. Do you follow me? Amen.

You will find that you may, because you are used to viewing the idea of time in a linear fashion, assume that you may have a universe full of ideas and then you would change one idea and that is the same universe with simply a new idea. No, it is a completely new self-created in that moment universe and so can be anything you desire it to be to whatever magnitude you wish it to. You follow me? Yes.

### Question on Hallucinogenic Drugs

**Questioner:** I'd like to ask you a question about hallucinogenic drugs for expansion.

**Bashar:** For the most part, your planetary system has created for you all the necessary variants required by your species for expression and expansion in that method. 

What you turn to be synthetic created manifestations of those forms of ingesting will for the most part reflect to a degree your understanding of that idea of expansion. 

They will for the most part not be complete in their sense of acclimatization to your physical form. Being that certain ideas that you possess during the creation of those synthetic forms will be lacking in a point here and there. 

You will find that also these will simply be viewed again as tools and you will come to realize they are not really necessary. You may use them to a degree to allow yourself certain reflections upon portions of your own total identity that you may feel you need to trigger for yourself to be realized. 

Many individuals will remove themselves one step from the idea of what that particular experience was for and in a sense focus only upon the tool itself. 


### On Self-Reflection and Beliefs

You will find that it is your reality. You may always realize that you have just as equal, in some terms because it is your reality, more of a chance to allow yourself to straighten out your own question marks into exclamation points for yourself by allowing yourself to simply be equal to the situations that you create round and about you. Realizing that your reality is a direct reflection of your belief system, you can then very very easily know exactly what your beliefs are. If you wish to change them, then simply allow yourself to become equal to any other idea you desire. You will always find that you have exactly the right amount of time, timing, and answers that you need for your question. You may also realize that when you allow yourself to ask yourself a question, when you conceive of a question, it is simply one way that you have of letting yourself know that you already have the answer. Otherwise, the question would not be there. You are always ready to answer yourself when you ask a question.


