---
heading: Part 2 of Orion and the Black League
title: ""
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1984-06-25
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 25
tags: ['orion', '']
---



## Channeling and Service

You will be connecting into this negativity that is penetrating into your reality at this time.

As you channel in that way, you'll be performing the service to ALL THAT IS of the allowance of your civilization to proceed within its unfoldment from again the third to the fourth level energy system.

<!-- Also understand that at this time you may also with what you told to me this transcription, I'll say having forwarded the idea again to all the individuals that you have understood to be aware of this channeling at this time or, I'll say, any other channeling at this time. Then understand also that you may forward also the transcription for yourself as your own understanding of what you're working in that way for the verification of yourself also to those entities and, I'll say, channels involved themselves. -->

**Response:** Me now? 

Again, these will be the idea that you have experienced already as our own civilization, as Essani. Understand that within any regard or say of the idea that you experience in that way, you may contact.


With regard to the idea of the expression of the consciousness which extends through any, I'll say, channel that you perceive to be, I'll say, within the idea of the formation of consciousness towards the service of ALL THAT IS. Therefore, understand you may find yourself forming this reflection and, I'll say, gaining connection within the idea of networking to all those consciousnesses that you represent at this time for yourself—the many that you will find with regard to the experience that you will turn to be again the Nine, what you turn to be Ra, what you turn to be Seth, what you turn to be the Christ consciousness, what you turn to be those that proceed from the idea of fifth, sixth, and seventh dimensionality in that way. If you perceive the idea to be blended again within the manifestation of the unfoldment of the service to ALL THAT IS.



## Nature of Negative Energy

**Question:** Could you define the nature of the negative energy that is going to be?

It will the reinforcement of gain for the self.

 <!-- with regard to the unfoldment of the manifestation of your consciousness at this time. -->

**There is nothing wrong with the idea of allowing yourself to unfold within any idea of any type of abundance whatsoever.** 
But understand that you will automatically unfold in that way if you perform service to ALL THAT IS.

Those who perform first of all service to self to gain abundance will also be:
- cutting themselves off way
- forming the judgment loop of their own personalities 
- forming themselves in a way to recreate the problem

This will cause the entrapment of the individual personalities involved within the projection of this negative energy at this time.

This will fossilize your own momentum, the freezing in that way of what will turn to be your own unfoldment and therefore entrapment of the self, enslavement of the self from further understanding of unfoldment from one level to another.

<!-- Simply understand that the degree to which this energy in its negative form will manifest within your society at this time will be those ideas which will form for, I'll say, the self aggrandizement which will restrict what you're going to be the spiritual growth in that way which will allow there to be the creation of what you told to be domination rather than equality. -->


**Question:** Is the Orion energy then serving a function in terms of for those physicals who have manifested a negative energy on our planet? Are they their higher self energy?

Any energy in this way is still not judged. It all still serves its own purpose. 

Within the understanding of the unfoldment of yourself with regard to your own momentum in positive manifestation, you will understand that the way,


Instead of becoming stuck with friction and conflict, you should rechannel the negative idea so that it will be integrated with your positive energy in a way that will:
- remove the negative effect and
- create a vibratory state which will not include contact between yourselves directly with that negative energy.

For those individuals, they will be perceiving that they are performing service in their own way to ALL THAT IS.

But realize that they will simply understand that it is service to self and they will be formulating for the idea they are radiating. 

Any consciousness which chooses to radiate along their vibration the idea of the repetition of cycle in such a way that you entrap yourself, you enslave yourself to the idea of forming realities which do not shift and do not change.


It is the entire idea of the repetition of cycle that you experienced in, I'll say, the idea you express as Atlantis within the overall destruction and the repetition of destruction that you are experiencing at this time upon your planet. 

You have the opportunity to rechannel this idea by the ending of your cycle within positive ways to transcend and, I'll say, refine yourselves into that fourth level of vibratory existence.

There will be the attempt at this time to allow you to remain exactly where you are in that way. 

So you will reinforce the universe that they perceive to be the essential mode of operation for the reinforcement of their own, I'll say, self aggrandizement and their own perception of becoming more in that way.

**Response:** I'm really confused.

There is this energy that will perceive itself as unfolding and becoming more of the universe as it chooses to in a sense create those to exist on their same level rather than understanding that it is the integration of all which creates the overall unfoldment by service to ALL THAT IS.

They do not perceive that they will unfold and contain ALL THAT IS by merging and blending in that way, I'll say, through service, through reinforcement of service to ALL THAT IS to allow the manifestations in a positive way of ALL THAT IS to unfold for every individual within it. Simply they understand that the only way they can achieve, I'll say, conscious recognition of becoming in that way greater and greater in scope is to make more and more individuals just like them.

**Response:** Okay. So it's be now we are perfect exactly the way we are at this moment.

Yes. That will be a portion of the understanding of the integration of the idea of negative energy—as long as you always are able to take your idea of what you turn to be the negative situation and allow it to be a positive manifestation within your life in that way and understand it will add to the overall momentum in a positive way as long as you are, I'll say, of service to ALL THAT IS in that way.

The negative energy in that way would, I'll say, receive the benefit of your use of judgment upon yourself to keep yourself exactly where you are then, I'll say, rather than realizing your own perfection and the perfection of ALL THAT IS in that way.


**Question:** there's some kind of what's the word—dichotomy.

**Response:** Okay. So then wouldn't everything be of service to all it is in that way in one sense?

Yes. Again it is simply a matter of what you choose, what our conscious reality chooses or what our at this time. Understand that there will be less of a separation between what you told me your unconscious belief structure and your conscious belief structure as you are blending the two.

**Question:** Is the idea of like when you serve yourself is that kind of the idea of not remembering who you are and then when you remember that you're ALL THAT IS then you're serving ALL THAT IS? I mean is there in a sense—

Yes. Realize that you will automatically be serving yourself by understanding that you are ALL THAT IS and serving ALL THAT IS.

**Response:** I do understand that. Did you say that was negative to serve ALL THAT IS?

**Response:** No. I told you I was confused.

Understand that by serving the idea of ALL THAT IS and allowing the idea of ALL THAT IS to become unfolded in all that it can be in your terms of time, you will be automatically serving yourself as you allow yourself to recognize yourself as a part of ALL THAT IS.

Realize that service to self in that way—the locking down of your reality, I'll say, the magnification of focus upon one specific idea of yourself which retains a fossilized state of your existence in that way and does not allow you to change in that way—will be the negative idea of serving of self. And in that way, as you maintain yourself as a singular identity completely unto yourself with no connection in that way to the understanding of yourself as ALL THAT IS, then the only way you will see yourself as expanding will be to dominate more and more individuals that you also perceive only to be unto themselves in that way.


**Question:** So someone who lives that kind of life and expresses it, I'm trying to figure out how that works in their psyche. Are they tapping into that Orion negative energy?

To a degree, although understand again every understanding, every consciousness contains both.

**Response:** Right.

Simply you are vibrating on a level to which they can identify and therefore you are vibrating on a level which attracts them and they use for their own self aggrandizement.

**Response:** Okay. Who are they?

Bashar: Again the Orion energy. Now realize there will be others within ALL THAT IS in that way. Simply understand that at this time there will be that connection for your sphere of influence as you understand the vibration to exist. As you understand the many connections that you have experienced within what is going to be the past history of your planet, there will have been the formation of that connection. And at this time, as you, I'll say, allow yourself to progress towards the transformation of yourself from again third density to fourth density, there will still be that connection until you allow yourself to understand yourself already as your future selves already in that way of a different reality other than one that can be affected in the negative way by that connection that you have formed which you are now beginning to break.


**Question:** What is the connection with Orion? Because Orion has been mentioned a lot throughout this past year.

Daryl has understood that one method of allowing there to be the rechanneling of that negative energy towards positive  was to ally with his own future self as Essassani.


**Response:** The other night Bashar was talking about the idea that there are people who don't choose future lives who are non-physical and so then realize that they are all still connected in that way in many different ways and these will be some of the other consciousnesses which will be, I'll say in your terms, amalgamated within the overall consciousness reaching your planet at this time with regard to the upliftment.


**Question:** They are still connected. Who died in World War II?

What you experience as the channel before you in another life.

As an individual who performed again the idea of the experience of what will turn to be underground resistance and died in the process in Germany.

**Response:** German. Yes.

**Question:** That everything's happening simultaneously.

Yes. So that would be just another aspect of the— Yes. And there was purpose in that involvement again to entrench the entity within your society in that way having come directly from that Orion influence, from the Black League influence in that way to understand the entrenchment along the time scale of your entire history in that way. So to experience, I'll say, the total understanding of exactly how the negative energy would manifest and be able from that overall experience of the many lives both past and future to rechannel the energy in that way a more positive light.


## Personal Experiences and Reflections

**Response:** I feel like, first of all, talking about all this kind of makes me a little nervous, and second of all, it makes me think of as a sort of a physical manifestation of it—the USA for Ethiopia movement that's going on and all those singers coming together in order to assist another country to get on their own feet and stand up on their own and recognize their own individuality. Would that be so?

Yes.

**Response:** Why are you nervous?

I don't know why I'm nervous.

**Response:** All right. Are you sure you're not feeling the excitement of yourself vibrating to the level of equality of the idea of the expansion as that consciousness will be coming through you?

I know I just feel nervous. That's the only emotion I can feel.

**Response:** Okay. I know that within nervousness is excitement and there's power within all that.

I can understand that. Then understand again that that is why we have stressed that each and every one of you who have maintained an agreement to also perform the idea that you understand of the unfoldment of your own consciousness in the many ways that you will unfold it—whether through, I'll say, simply your own communication to your own higher consciousness or, I'll say, the unfoldment of the idea expressed to you as channeling in that way—you will find yourself again while you are still expressing your own unfoldment specifically for your own identity, you will be performing, I'll say, also that part of your unfoldment which is of service to ALL THAT IS. And in that way you can understand a little bit more by again our expression of the specific path of the channel before you in that way with regard to the many different paths that each of you have chosen within your own past lives, your own future lives as they, I'll say, combine to unfold yourself in your here-and-now present understanding, and as they work together again to form that transformation of your mass consciousness from the third density vibrational level to the fourth.

You are beginning to identify with the idea of exactly what it is you are going to be connecting into in that way and the service that you will be performing.


## Perspective on Negativity

**Response:** Thank you for what you've been saying. I have a view that I just want to explore for a moment—considering that ALL THAT IS is perfect in its own right, and even the negativity of Orion is what it is. There's no good or bad about it necessarily.

All right. There is the only thing that I can see is that there are others about who prefer a different direction.

**Response:** Yes. And also apparently we as a mass consciousness have gone through the cycle enough that we wish to change.

Yes. And so this negative energy is really not a bad thing at all. It's merely that there are others now who wish to assist us in making a change.

Again understand that we have expressed that there is no judgment. There is no right and wrong in this idea and all is an expression of ALL THAT IS in that way as you have expressed it. Simply again, as we have expressed to you many, many times, it is only a matter of choice. Understand that we are in contact with you in that way simply because there is that, I'll say, understanding or faction of your own mass consciousness which desires the reflection of that portion of itself which wishes the choice in that way to manifest the positive effect at this time. Understand it is up to you and if you choose in that way to experience the idea that you wish to unfold yourselves through domination, all right, that is also up to you.

**Response:** Yes, I understand. Thank you.

**Question:** I have a question. I asked you about a couple of friends of mine a while ago and you were talking about their energy. Are they a representation of the Orion energy in a way for me?

Only in a sense, to a degree. They are a reflection of the idea of, yes, in a sense, that domination which they are quite in that way unaware of.

**Response:** Okay. You follow me?

**Response:** Yeah, I understand.

But understand that that idea that manifestation and, I'll say, in that way many of what you turn to be the ideas expressed to you through the manifestation of what you turn to be a religion are, I'll say, to a degree distortions and, I'll say, rearrangements of that idea of domination expressed to you and sent to you by that Orion energy.

**Response:** Yes.

**Response:** Oh, I have a question.

**Question:** All right. A few months ago, I had an experience of a voice channeling and it's like two words came up. It felt like it was the energy of Nehemiah, what Nehemiah represents.

Yes. And two words came up: "I am." And it just seemed like it came from nowhere and like really loudly out of my mouth and I felt very frightened. I felt like I was being taken over and I got scared and I guess I want some assistance or advice or something to tell me that it was okay.

Again understand that your unfoldment of yourself at this time will be reflecting yourself off of various ideas or energies. Understand simply that you may again as you have already understood yourself to be integrating as you understood yourself at that time to be integrating. Understand that it has had positive effects for you, has it not?

**Response:** Yes.

Then understand that you are unfolding in that way a positive effect.

**Response:** It's just that all this stuff about negativity.

Again, understand that you are at a point now to a degree where you may understand that we can transmit this idea to you. Therefore, understand that you are well within the idea of yourself as a positive effect enough so that you do not have to give credence to that, I'll say, primeval fear in that way that you would have expressed and therefore reinforce that negative energy. Understand that that fear in and of itself is exactly what they are after.

Do you follow me?

**Response:** Yes.

**Question:** So, in a way, but was that I guess what I'm saying?

Answer it yourself.

You follow me?

**Response:** Yes. That is your answer.

**Question:** Say it again.

Yes.

**Response:** Again?

Yes. Do you understand?

**Response:** I understand, but I'm feeling a lot of fear right now, too.

Why do you choose? That fear that you're talking about being taken over. How can you be? Again, understand that we have expressed to you at this time the idea that you have reached that transitional state of yourself, the transformational state of yourself, when you'll understand yourself as the idea that you have made choices and agreements within ALL THAT IS and that therefore you may understand yourself in that way that you cannot be taken over and known as a victim. Again and again we have expressed this idea to you as you have allowed us to express it to you in that way. But realize again it is your choice.

**Question:** Could it be the religion that kind of or the energy that has kind of made us?

You have made yourselves by your own agreement. Again, do not remove responsibility from yourself. They have no power in that way over anything as long as you do not agree to that idea.

**Response:** Well, you know, a human being would understand that a lot of us here are on a physical level and we don't always make excuses in that way.

Understand with you to make an experience. Understand you have arrived at this time of your understanding in that way so that you have made manifestations of understanding of the control of everything that you create within ALL THAT IS in that way for your life. Understand that to a degree there will be in that way no judgment expressed to you—it is your choice again. But understand to a degree, I'll say, within the only terminology we can express to you at this time, within the only terminology that your language contains within the time, but understand it comes to you without judgment that there will be no toleration of this idea at this time. You understand? There will be no toleration of the idea of your own victimhood. Understand that you are unfolding in that way in that positive way. Understand that you are integrating in that positive way at this time. Otherwise you would not be.

Allow yourself to trust what you are.



## Power and Choice

There will be reinforcement to the idea of the expression of the energy this time towards you in such a way as to allow your, I'll say, experience the idea of that fear. 

But allow yourself to understand that that fear experienced for you again now is a choice.

