Hummingbirds and Rainbows


### Topic: Mass Consciousness, Death, and Suicide

**Speaker 1:** We talked before in relation to some of my astrological readings. Um, you were telling me that every idea I experience is valid for me and I have the choice to change an idea if I so wish to to a point.

**Channel:** To a point.

**Speaker 1:** Um, I changed my choice on the time on those two times that I was playing with. Guys, what I got confused was what you're talking about in the sense of the idea of the future self and the future time. Not that so much um with the part that you're talking about um ideas that you agreed upon with mass consciousness for your life time.

**Channel:** Yes.

**Speaker 1:** Um he said that well if you change your basic agreement then you could change your well then you could either go into transition or whatever. Um how to my conscious self how how would I know what my if you change the basic basic agreement with mass consciousness you will not be in this reality. Okay. How how would I know that though? I mean to my...

**Channel:** You will know understanding that great if you pull out of the focus of physical reality you will have an overview that will let you know immediately that you are no longer where you used to be.

**Speaker 1:** Okay. But I I'll not like a conscious choice that I make or I change a choice then all of a sudden um...

**Channel:** Generally speaking as you say you will usually usually not make that choice otherwise you'll find you probably would not have been here to begin with. You follow me?

**Speaker 1:** Yeah. So in a sense that it's it's kind of in harmony where we're yes understand that within the lifetime you do have and make that choice as it fits within the overall mass consciousness pattern anyway it is called death me that is your time of leaving your time of pulling out of the focus.

**Speaker 1:** What did you mean by that? The idea of choosing to completely disassociate with the mass conscious agreement as it regards the physical reality does occur within the normal timing and it is called death.

**Channel:** Okay, I understand that simply to choose it quote unquote sooner than you chose to do it within the timing would mean that you were not fulfilling the purpose you chose to be here for and therefore why would you be here in the first place? Now to some degree there is quote unquote in a sense an opportunity to do this in a sense as you would understand it before your own higher conscious chosen timing. This is called suicide. It can be done since you do have complete freedom of choice in everything. It is not that it cannot be done but simply understand in this way as we said the idea of giving yourself the choice of pulling out of your focus in your terms before the completion of your original choice will usually always result in your immediate return. You follow me? If you haven't accomplished what you...

**Speaker 1:** Yes. want to. Yes.

**Channel:** And you will be usually reborn into almost exactly the same situation. You follow me? Will this have answered your question?

**Speaker 1:** Thank you. Question.

### Topic: Fairies and Essence Consciousness
**Speaker 2:** Yeah, I have a question. All right. I'm reading the book called *The Real World of the Fairies* and um I'm really getting it. I really like the idea of fairies and person who wrote the book says that they do exist and that she's talked to them and that they're like little people kind of two feet high. Well, I've spoken about this idea before in terms of what you term to be the archetypal realm of essence consciousness. Okay. Well, now that she talks as having bodies but translucent like Yes. So, they're still have some kind of But yet in a way they don't. They have form as needs be to project to the understanding of communication with your mentality. So um I' been going into the forest and I want to um I want to talk with one of the fairies. I want to see them in the physical form. Well more than one I'd like to.

**Channel:** All right. Now understand that this can be possible as a projection in that way as you create the circumstance. But understand in this way that you are always in communication with this idea with this essence with the archetypal nature essence consciousness within yourself and that they do represent in a sense a I'll say subconscious portion of the entire mass consciousness they are real they have life they have consciousness but understand it is always only part and parcel with the idea of your projection of yourself into physical reality to begin with.

**Speaker 2:** Okay. Well, let me say this though. Like for instance, so is everyone. For instance, if I turn to talk to Erica right now or I'm talking with you, um it's still it's still a projection. So So in the same sense, I would like to come face to face.

**Channel:** Yes. But understand that by definition they occupy not saying cannot happen simply by definition the being you call Erica occupies also the conscious level of the mass consciousness. Whereas the essence of those being you call fairy do not. They occupy the subconscious level and thus you must reach into your subconscious archetypal consciousness and make connections between your conscious and subconscious levels. Blend them. Remove the barriers and then you can see them all the time.

**Speaker 2:** Great. So is there any suggestion you could give me to doing?

**Channel:** Simply do not need to see them. In the same manner that many individuals need to see our spacecraft, it is usually assured that out of that need, they will cancel the opportunity to do so. You follow me?

**Speaker 2:** Yeah, I do. It's more It's like a joy.

**Channel:** Yes. be joyful within to be colloquial their kingdom and you will find that your essence will be allowed by you to blend with their essence and then you can perceive on the same level. It is the same as any idea. Be equal to it and it will be equal to you. Follow me.

**Speaker 2:** Yeah, I was putting on the shelf for them. I was like singing and pretending they were my audience.

**Channel:** Yes. Very good. I thought they would enjoy that. You can perceive in time the idea. Simply understand it is only a matter of a different type of seeing.

**Speaker 2:** Right. That's the way the the book described it to me.

**Channel:** Yes.

**Speaker 2:** Thank you. Thank you. Question.

### Topic: War Victims and Choice
**Speaker 3:** Yes, sir. All right. You. Okay. A few months back, Joy asked a question. Actually Joy was expressing something about war indicating that all those people who were involved in war in some manner, women and children and so on who were quote victims unquote were there by choice and you said to a great degree which implies a little bit falling short of to a complete degree and I'm wondering in what way would it not be only that there is no conscious connection to having made the choice. You follow me?

**Channel:** Sure. There is a subconscious or yes all the other levels of consciousness know the choice has been made simply that when you do create a separation then you are creating the idea that it is only to a partial degree a choice.

**Speaker 3:** Sure. Okay. I understand. One more question. Uh referring to the uh crystal skull in the uh of man. How would one read the map that had been left?

### Topic: The Crystal Skull
**Channel:** There can be many ways again depending upon different individuals but allow me to say what you could could now come face to face in figurative speaking with this structure. Sit face to face look into its eyes. Mhm. Now this will be the most difficult part for most individuals at this time in that there have been put in your terminology in a sense safeguards within this idea. Understand that it is the reading of a combination that would lead to a doorway. Those that created that combination, those that created that doorway left a type of key that would not let in a sense just anyone follow. Mhm. The key that allows it to be difficult will be that as you look into those eyes, you must allow those eyes to look into you. And you may form connections that will allow you to bring up consciously within yourself much of what you may find to be fearful and you must deal with it. You must allow it. You must integrate it. Then will you be able to read the pathways within the crystal that lead to the combination. But always it will demand of you that you be as clear as the crystal itself.

**Speaker 3:** Now in terms of once one has done that I I presume that allowing the eyes to look at you is just being able to conceive that and be comfortable with that can be.

**Channel:** Yes. This will be at this time very individualistic because of the nature of the high frequency resonance of the skull itself.

**Speaker 3:** Okay. Once one has done that integrated the fear and in a sense open the door then would one physically see...

**Channel:** You will know I'm not going to actually do it but I've got some other ideas so you may see many died round and about doing different things the idea of the doorways may become about you may actually even see some of the individuals who have crossed as they may be standing there waiting for you to see if you make it or not.

**Speaker 3:** Would these be seen, shall we say, within the crystal skull or maybe round and about you in physical space as you understand it?

**Channel:** You would be tuning into their vibration. You would be identifying with their world and you would then make the transition and see them right there with you. You follow me?

**Speaker 3:** Yes, I do. Fabulous. Thank you very much. Thank you. Yes.

### Topic: Satellite Failures and Communication
**Speaker 4:** Uh last week we shot a rocket with two satellites under the ocean. The week before another satellite failed to get to orbit and then two more satellites died this last week. Having a good time seems to be a pattern. Is there some reason that's related to something maybe activity?

**Channel:** Yes, it is representative directly of a failure in communication among you. especially as it relates to the ideas you are now exploring of what you turn to be satellites that kill. You follow me?

**Speaker 4:** Sort of. Yeah.

**Channel:** In other words, the success of your satellites that kill will be a breakdown in the satellites that communicate because to kill is in direct opposition to the idea of communication. Follow me. Will this have answered your question?

**Speaker 4:** Yes. Thank you. Yes.

### Topic: Marijuana, Brain Waves, and the Aura
**Speaker 5:** Hello. And it's good to be back with you again. And I have several questions. I'll just ask a couple right now. All right. Um I have a question. What from your point of view are the effects of the herb marijuana on the more subtle bodies of the human being?

**Channel:** Now let me say first of all that that idea will usually allow you to resonate in the frequency brain wave cycle physically you call alpha state. Understand that the idea of what you turn to be psychic functioning usually takes place within the theta state which is in your terms lower. that particular as you say organic substance will usually not allow you to function in that psychic state. It will keep you in a meditative state. This can have many different effects. It will to some degree align some of the aspects of etheric and some maybe one or two of the aspects of astral self to the physical self. But usually this alignment will manifest only in a sense of general soothingness, sometimes some time distortion as you experience the idea of timelessness in the connection of the etheric and astral states. For the most part, allow me to say it is generally simply an alignment for the idea of producing a meditative state, a reflective state in that way. You follow me?

**Speaker 5:** I do. Okay, thank you. Um, so just quickly on that, you don't find a lot of people in metaphysics here have said that it sort of like puts holes in your aura. Is that a reality or is it only a reality to those who see that?

**Channel:** Both understand that as you allow yourself to create a situation in which you perceive yourself to be being altered in the alignment of your different forms. You will find that these holes will reflect the specific now by analogy the specific magnetic paths representative of that particular effect. Therefore, you will find that you will not have an overall diffusion of your oric field, but it will take on certain characteristics and will follow certain flow lines in a sense that will make it seem as if it is absent from certain areas. You follow me?

**Speaker 5:** I do.

**Channel:** It is as if you chose to create a certain magnetic flow round and about you and allowed your oric field to mimic it. In that sense, it will create the idea you call holes. These need not be indicative in I'll say a negative way although it can be depending then upon the perception of the individual who is allowing the adjustment to be made. You follow me?

**Speaker 5:** I do. Thank you very much. Thank you.

**Channel:** Now understand if we may comment a little bit further that any idea of that nature is simply as anything else a tool. That is all. No more no less. Your earth crystal has provided you with those you call some natural tools in that way which as you say grow naturally. The ones that grow naturally in that way are there to provide you with all the experiences that you would require of such a tool. Many times when there is the creation in your terms of a synthetic variation of this idea, usually though in one sense synthetics can be just as natural since you yourselves are a part of nature. But the idea in of itself many times of synthetics will be that they will in the creation in the formulation reflect those ideas of shortcomings that you do contain within yourselves at the time of the creation of that synthetic And thus they will always lead you to face those portions of yourself you are unwilling to face in the natural state. You follow me? However, the idea behind all of that as a tool is to simply allow the individual partaking to know that they already contain these ideas. These substances are a type of natural mirror, a type of natural reflection. When the individual is continually shown portions of themselves they are not willing to look at in a sense they will utilize they will utilize the effect of the tool rather than the substance of the reflection and become addicted to the effect rather than allowing themselves to I'll say take realization from the substance of the reflection use the tool for the reason They created it. You follow me?

**Speaker 5:** Mhm. I do.

**Channel:** Anytime you allow such a tool to serve its purpose, there will never be a need for the addiction. Usually, you will simply realize that you contain all the abilities that the tool is showing you that you have anyway. Simply point a direction that you may explore within yourself and then not require that tool any longer. You follow me?

**Speaker 5:** Mhm.

**Channel:** The more you require the effect of the tool, the less you will actually be exploring yourself. Follow me.

**Speaker 5:** Yes. Thank you.

### Topic: Death, Reincarnation, and Walk-ins
**Speaker 6:** Question. Yeah. I've got two questions. All right. All right. All right. All right. One of them is um you say that like when a person dies well I don't know if you said this or not but like when they do they have a real clear viewpoint at that time of their life and like maybe what their purposes were or weren't and if they accomplished them and like what they're going to do next. Is it real clear at that point?

**Channel:** Generally speaking, but not always. It will depend upon many of the belief systems that were held in the physical life. It may in your terms in your terms seem to be relatively relatively immediate but to them it may take some time. Many times you will find that individuals who have held very very very very strongly to certain beliefs will find they experience those beliefs.

**Speaker 6:** Exactly. You mean like going to heaven?

**Channel:** Yes. Okay. They will experience that idea sooner or later in their time frame. They will come to realize however that they are completely creating that experience. And those individuals whom, as you say, for example, they see heaven populated with, they will come to understand are simply guides and friends who have assumed those positions to ease the transition so that there would be no shock. Once they come to understand they are creating it, then those guides and spirits can I'll say reform into who they really are and inform those individuals who have died what the situation really is all about. Then they can have the clarity of understanding that they chose what they chose and then they can incorporate the idea that they experienced upon the death into their overall understanding of why they chose such strongly structured beliefs in life.

**Speaker 6:** Yeah. And then proceed.

**Channel:** Yes.

**Speaker 6:** Okay. Um, the next question was you were talking about the theta state or something like that. Yes. And you were saying how well you were saying like how marijuana was a tool for people to get to the alpha state. What is it people use for the theta state?

**Channel:** There can be I'll say injection into that state or through that state brought on by many different I'll say means some of which can be the idea of the drugs as you say those substances some can be the ideas that you call potay can be what you turn to the LSD it will project you through that state for the most part remaining within the theta state will usually usually require none of that. It will be simply more a relaxation and an awareness of your connection. Mostly the idea that can in that sense get you there quickly will be if you wish a symbol at all more the breathing patterns of what you term to be yogic exercise.

**Speaker 6:** Oh yeah. Okay. You follow me?

**Speaker 6:** Yeah, I follow you. Now I'm not going to go out and take drugs.

**Channel:** Simply understand that you are an automatic tuner. Everyone is simply the desire to function in the manner will automatically put you in that state.

**Speaker 6:** Yeah. No tools necessary. Very good.

**Channel:** Yeah. You will when you simply know you wish to connect to other mentality other consciousness in that way your brain will automatically switch to the seven cycle per second level that represents the theta state. In other words, it is the idea of the activity involved that automatically sets the frequency. You don't have to know what the frequency feels like in order to get there.

**Speaker 6:** Yeah. You simply have to have the desire to do the function that is represented by that frequency. You will automatically switch there. And you do all the time. Many times in what you term to be the daydream state, you are in fat and in psychic functioning. You simply ascribe much of what you perceive to some sort of fantasy state and not believe that it is real, but much of it actually is. You are simply wandering at random through the frequencies. You follow me?

**Speaker 6:** Yeah, I follow you. I got you. Thank you. I got you. You referred. I said two, but I meant three.

**Channel:** Yes. Go ahead.

**Speaker 6:** Well, actually, I meant two at the time, but I had another one. Um, you said the theta state is like seven cycles per minute for your brain.

**Channel:** Second.

**Speaker 6:** Oh. Oh. Yeah. What is um just normal whatever the normal everyday state is, how many cycles approximately...

**Channel:** 15 can vary, can be 12. What you term to be hysteria is approximately 40.

**Speaker 7:** Just a brief question on that. You referred to seven cycles per second. Yes. The earth crystal vibrates at 7 and a half. Yes. Is that half cycle per second um significant?

**Channel:** It is within the theta state. In other words, understand that the idea of the theta state is being in communication with the totality of your physical reality. That is the wavelength that puts you in touch with all of the idea you call nature and all of the idea you call consciousness as it has projected itself into mentality in the physical state.

**Speaker 7:** Sort of like there's a small range and then seven and a half is part of that range.

**Channel:** Yes. Approximately 7 to 10 will be theta.

**Speaker 7:** Thank you.

### Topic: Service vs. Servitude and Manifestation
**Speaker 8:** So my turn. All right then. You guys uh I'm doing perfect tonight and Oh, thank you. Yay. Don't applause. I just send donations. You're already perfect. Okay. Um I've learned my lesson. Uh which one? I've spent quite a bit of time on now. However, I've uh while not having the success, the immediate success that I have, not having what? Thought you said you learned your lessons.

**Speaker 8:** You You didn't let me finish my statement.

**Channel:** Well, you had finished it with that word.

**Speaker 8:** You listen You listened the other way. Okay. Now, what happened was Well, I didn't see what I went to see at the time that I was in Malibu. Yes. Um, I did uh gain an appreciation for what you were talking about.

**Channel:** All right. May I interject something for a moment? Recognize as we said recently of your time to another such gathering. I did not experience what I expected to experience is for our civilization a very ancient greeting and one of joy.

**Speaker 8:** Oh really?

**Channel:** I also have not been experiencing what I expected to experience.

**Speaker 8:** Oh then things are going well.

**Channel:** Yes. This is for us in our civilization an ancient greeting that lets us know that we are functioning within the unfoldment of our path and not using our judgment.

**Speaker 8:** Thank you for telling me. Now uh with that I must say that u I gained quite a lot. Yes. As you probably already know in my rejoice, um, midweek I did see a spirit craft do in daytime and Oh, what a surprise. And, uh, on the other hand, I was totally not expecting it.

**Channel:** Oh, very good. Best time to see one.

**Speaker 8:** All right. Uh, the daytime at, you know, I mean, would you like to share?

**Channel:** Well, I drew a picture.

**Speaker 8:** All right. To uh Would you just hold that up? Yeah. Let's see it. It was It was marvelous. I mean, I just Thank you. Thank you. And it was cruising. It was cruising about at our jet speed with no It was beautiful.

**Channel:** Yes. That is typical.

**Speaker 8:** Oh, it was fabulous. And I just couldn't believe it.

**Channel:** Oh, yes we are. Yes, we are. That's an expression. Come on. Don't pick me up. You're not enjoy being teased. We love it. I mean, don't you just wait on me. We like everyone in your civilization and every civilization enjoy you very much.

**Speaker 8:** I know you do. Thank you.

**Channel:** We know you know. That is why we tease you.

**Speaker 9:** Mark isn't here, but I had I did do some exploring. Um, I'm I'm talking in terms of what we talked about last week, okay? And um I really got all of the garbage off everything and I really took a look at what's where it really is for me. And I'm in I'm really into making people happy. putting them on a high, you know, a higher sense of happiness and joy and that sort of thing.

**Channel:** Oh, thank you.

**Speaker 9:** Now, Mark isn't here, so we have not gotten together on it. But, um, I thought perhaps you would now that I've honestly truly gotten to that point, you give me another hint, you would give me something. Are you happy?

**Channel:** Can't you feel it?

**Speaker 9:** Of course.

**Channel:** Okay. But we can also feel your question.

**Speaker 9:** Yes. Well, I'll always have questions. I mean, it's learning is is it's beautiful.

**Channel:** Yes. But understand, learning is knowing you have the answers. The questions themselves do not give you learning. Knowing you have the answers is what gives you learning.

**Speaker 9:** Well, probably that's what's being what's sort of unfolding now.

**Channel:** Yes. No. Have you used your imagination to envision ways of being of service that also are exciting to you? Also understand that there is no need to neglect yourself.

**Speaker 9:** That is how I arrived at what it really was that expired. And that did come into being somewhat of a a block because there have been times when I when I perhaps I did neglect myself in the process of sort of sort of helping somebody else get to vibration or whatever.

**Channel:** Now understand that in helping other people it is not taking responsibility for them not living their lives for them. It is simply offering service in any way that they wish to use it for themselves, supporting their idea of themselves, but not at the cost of your own identity.

**Speaker 9:** Which I really have to be cognizant of that with myself doing the process of interaction with somebody. Guess who just walked in the room? I guess you'll figure it out. What a surprise. But at any rate, um, yeah, it's it's it's going in a direction that's nice.

**Channel:** Then perhaps now that your reflection is here, you can discuss it among yourselves later. All right, Mark, do you have any What happened while he's here? I figured I was just kidding. Did you have any insights or anything?

**Mark:** Not really. Well, a lot of real good things have been happening. Lot Oh, not really. Well, a lot of real good things. Lots of um relationships have changed. I feel in one sense that I'm really proud of myself with some of the relationships that I've developed. I've come to a new relationship with someone real important to me and it's scaring me a lot and I'm going through a lot of stuff with it and I'm real proud of myself with it.

**Channel:** All right. Do you feel that you both still may have something to share later?

**Mark:** Maybe. So after break, maybe we need to get out his thing.

**Channel:** All right. But before we go before we go any further, remember we discussed the condo and the the problems of livingness and that sort of thing.

**Speaker 9:** The problems of livingness. Yes. Problems of livingness. Well, that was then. This is now I just Okay. What happened was um this week I I I really did it good. I put my condo up for lease and I'm selling my car and I'm sort of this new life. It's it's it's it's been so nice. Um I mean I've even gotten late payments in the mail and stuff saying you know notifications of late payments and oh okay well got to handle that.

**Channel:** All right. As we said, the idea of being of service but not neglecting yourself will allow you to attract situations upon which you can then obviously act. You are still balancing the ideas of service in such a way that you are not allowing yourself to feel like you can act for yourself as well. You are simply assuming that by being of servitude that that is being of service. No, servitude is not of service.

**Speaker 9:** Well, something that Don and I discussed last week was that the idea of Earth's server was not only that you serve the earth, but the earth served you.

**Channel:** Of course, and that was the idea I took into this week. Yeah. The idea is that when you allow yourself to be of service but not take responsibility for what the other individuals will partake of in your service, you can then also create the energy momentum for your own life that allows you to know that you in being of service will automatically be served in such a way that you will attract situations into your physical reality upon which you can then act. Understand that you are still going to be acting. You're not going to be sitting back in your chair in your easy chair getting fat and collecting money. No, you are going to be acting. But the idea is that in being of service you simply know you take it for granted without shadow of doubt. That by being of service you will attract situations to yourself with these other individuals or individuals outside. In a sense the idea of who you are being service to that will bring to you opportunities that you will recognize as the ones that if you do act upon them will not be an effort. It will be something you will love. Then you will allow others to be of service to you. Understand that part of being of service to others is also to allow them to be of service to you. It is not a one-way street. And many times when people feel they are going to be of service and then reap their reward, they are putting the expectation on it. And what they are doing is reducing service to servitude and thus not allowing anyone else to be of service to them. You follow me? Recognize that one of the greatest gifts you can give to anyone is to allow them the service of also giving but not expecting. There is a delicate balance. But simply know that if you are being of service and not servitude, you will retain for yourself enough energy to create situations in your life which will be the ones you can obviously act upon. And once again, you will find that for the most part, you will usually be able to create those automatically without thinking about where they are going to come from nor imposing expectations upon them. If you simply when you do come up with an image in your imagination of yourself, act that image out. Be that image.

**Speaker 9:** Well, you know, this week I have been sort of looking over toward the beach because I've been thinking about moving and sort of it seemingly is there more aesthetic over there. I'm sort of like the park.

**Channel:** All right.

**Speaker 9:** And the ocean and the clean air, you know. All right. Uh, and I don't know, it's it's kind of and I don't know, it's it's kind of scary at the same time, but it has, you know, that that ball of excitement that...

**Channel:** Yes. Do not let the fear stop you from acting it out.

**Speaker 9:** Oh, incidentally, my hummingbird got Oh, is that in other words, connections? Oh, a friend of mine had a hummingbird that stuck in the screen. Stuck in his his screen and he took him out and uh he said a few words of wisdom to him and let him go.

**Channel:** Who said a few words of wisdom to who? Soon as I said that you go, thank you for the sharing of your experiences and the allowance of those experiences to continue in the perfectly timed unfoldment that you know they are. Act act act out your imagination. Even if you change your imagination in the very next moment, act out the one you have, then act out the next thing that occurs, then act, act, act.

**Speaker 9:** Just kidding.

**Channel:** For sure. Yes, it can be. If that is what you create in your imagination.

### Topic: Malibu, Fear, and UFOs
**Speaker 10:** Yes. Uh, was Greg next? Can I chime in?

**Channel:** You may.

**Speaker 10:** I'll say yes afterward. I had two questions asked, but I had a statement. First, um, guess where I was at Sunday night? Guess what I saw? Nothing.

**Channel:** Nothing. How did you know you were in a Malibu?

**Speaker 10:** I thought I thought I had to see an eye dog tell me.

**Channel:** Oh, words of wisdom from the animal kingdom again. Never mind.

**Speaker 10:** No, no, what I um I think what happened, this is my statement, then I have two questions, is that um I really like playing in the sand, guys. And it was like 10:30 at night and I was playing the sand and my heart was beating so fast because I was afraid the sea monster was going to get me that a sea monster. I don't care. I'm just afraid something from Jaws is going to come out of the water. So So why I think my my vibratory rate was like 30 to 40. So I was pretty much in hysteria. That's probably why I didn't see anything, you know, because they said look we'll scare him to death. We may as well not come. Is that what was happening?

**Channel:** Only about 20 to 25. cuz I was paranoid. I'd never been at the beach at night by myself with the wind blowing. If somebody would have came to eat me, I wouldn't even know I was eating. I'm real paranoid about things coming out of the water to be frank with you. Um, so that's why, but I sat there in my car a lot of the time and watched and I saw this thing go by me and it went right above me and it was not a helicopter and it looked more it didn't look like and you know it looked exactly like it looked like the um the shuttle but it didn't make any noise and it wasn't real high or anything. It just was going right by it like it followed the shore and I was right up parked on the shore and I watched it didn't make any noise when above me and it was more like the shuttle but how could it be going so slow you know if it was a shuttle because you know their wings but anyway I was thinking maybe that was one or that I was too parano uh too petrified I guess to to vibrate to any of their speed...

**Channel:** It was not really in the sense you understand it a craft but it was an energy form worm in a sense that was overlaid onto one of your regular aircraft and the vibration at which you were moving allowed you to alter the form to your own perceptions.

**Speaker 10:** Yeah. So like it probably really had sound but I kind of illusioned that it didn't.

**Channel:** You may not have been in what you term to be the acoustical path.

**Speaker 10:** Yeah, because the wind's blowing real hard and was right above me. But then my two questions I want to ask were about death. And one was when is it when you come into the fetus? When the spirit comes into the fetus, is that at just gestation? And when is it?

**Channel:** No. Okay. When is And when is it when you die? Just prior to birth.

**Speaker 10:** So, like when they give an abortion, they're not really killing a spirit.

**Channel:** No, can't kill spirit.

**Speaker 10:** Um, so we can't kill spirit. Oh, we know what he meant. They weren't like it was just like a piece of meat. It was consciousness.

**Channel:** All is consciousness. We understood the distinction you were making. It is not in that way the pattern of spiritual consciousness that you would recognize as the idea you are ascribing to soul that enters just prior to birth. There is a form of consciousness right from conception even before but understand it is not what you understand to be the formation of personality.

**Speaker 10:** His soul isn't there yet. Is that what you're saying in a sense?

**Channel:** Yes.

**Speaker 10:** Okay. And when you die, let's say if you had your head amputated, that's not like you you're know you're dead. Um that's I don't know if you got hurt or something. Um do you die? Do you I mean does your does your soul just leave right then or does it wait around or...

**Channel:** It will again depend upon the circumstances. Many times there will be purpose as you say in hanging about waiting for a while as in what you term to be cases you call coma. This will serve purpose for the individuals still ambulatory. You follow me?

**Speaker 10:** Uhhuh. People on a hard lung machine is is the spirit still there?

**Channel:** Sometimes sometimes not. Again, it will depend upon the purposes being served.

**Speaker 10:** The spirit could come and go though, couldn't it? Like, you know, could just come. And I had one more question. Um...

**Channel:** There can also in that circumstance be walk-ins, which usually will result in the complete and total repair of the body.

**Speaker 10:** Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. A miracle. The doctors will say, complete remission.

**Channel:** Usually when that occurs it can be the original soul but does not have to be.

**Speaker 10:** Would the person act no different?

**Channel:** Can Yes. Usually there will be a personality shift in what you turn to be a true walkin.

### Topic: Subconscious Connection and Suppression
**Speaker 10:** Okay. Here's my question. Why or how why are we so why am I why is mankind I think so separate from our subconscious? I mean what's the big deal if we were all connected all of a sudden to our subconscious? coming directly on an understanding level.

**Channel:** The idea simply is no big deal. The idea simply has been to explore the idea. Step number one.

**Speaker 10:** Okay. So you say if you don't buy in, how would you spread this out through the planet?

**Channel:** I would simply do it in whatever way excites me the most knowing that by doing that the word will spread because I will attract the individuals who will be most capable of spreading the word. And I will spread myself when any other individuals come in contact with myself that would be interested to learn what I am doing. At the same time, I would also treat now in no way, shape or form is this derogatory to what you are exploring for what you are exploring is necessary. But I would also understand that the ideas that you are referring to a fusion in the nuclear fashion is going to be rendered relatively obsolete very soon. The idea is to understand that the electromagnetic field of your planet will supply all the energy you need for the type of propulsion that isn't really propulsion at all. It is more of a re-ransation of matter tapping in synchronicity.

**Speaker 10:** I know about this already. Uh this has already been done back in 1934. Yes. But the the person Mo um and many others and Yes. And many others uh they have also been suppressed.

**Channel:** Understood. But that was then and this is now is it not?

**Speaker 10:** Yes.

**Channel:** So define what reality you live in now. Define what world you live in now. And remember, do not relate to the idea of your government as a fearful thing because that's the only thing that reinforces the ability to suppress. Remember that you are your government. And that simply whatever reality you prefer, you can start living as if you are in that reality now. And whoever you attract, you will be able to interact with them in a way that can still allow you the full expression you require. as long as you do not buy into the fear of the suppression.

**Speaker 10:** Okay, thank you very much.

**Channel:** Well, that has been the idea. You are now beginning to understand the idea of integration. But you can now form in your mass consciousness reality connection removing the barriers between all the different levels of your consciousness in that way and experience the blending and the flowing of knowing yourself in one view. You follow me? Secondly, the experience of all the different levels of consciousness you have created within you has been simply one of the ways all that has of looking at itself. This has been the idea you experimented with. It is now in a sense of famous [Music] All right, next question.

### Topic: Born Again Christians, Revelations, and Oneness
**Speaker 11:** Well, okay. One of the things I want to share was a lot of things kind of connected up for me. One of the big things that connected to me wasing all of my relationships with people point and how it all seemed to me to be leading to the fact that to allow yourself to know you already are connected. Yeah. I was looking at well why the negative and wow this and while that all right okay so I just wanted to share that thank you very much uh the question I have is I was talking to one of my born again friends today one of your born again friends all of your friends have been born many times in the sense of community okay I guess I'm so um she was saying that she was a little bit worried this was in reference to some of the ideas that we talk about like with Erica that and she quoted out of re revelations that in revelations it says that type of new ageness that comes in and it's originating combination of all the religions and allows people more connected with themselves and she says and that's exactly what the Bible warns about because that's the feeding ground for the find you okay say begin to recognize first of All as we have said before there is no such thing as a prediction of the future. First of all predictions when they are made are made from the sensing of the energy of the consciousness at the time the prediction is made. Now understand that there is the idea and it can be a possible manifestation that if you wish you can embody all the idea of negative effect into a particular corporate being. You follow me?

**Speaker 11:** I don't understand corporate...

**Channel:** The idea of what you term to be your physical reality embodying as you have done to some degree in the I'll say allowance of the being you call Hitler you follow me okay this can be manifest again if you wish but understand that the idea of oneness the idea of oneness will never be a trademark of that being. Do you follow me?

**Speaker 11:** Yeah.

**Channel:** Understand? There may be what you turn to be the guise of oneness, but if it is the guise of oneness in domination, not in diversification, but in uniformity, then it is not true oneness. Do you follow me?

**Speaker 11:** Yes.

**Channel:** True oneness comes from diversification. Do you follow me?

**Speaker 11:** No.

**Channel:** In other words, if there were only one path, there would only be one person not allowing all. Yes. Therefore, however, also understand that the prediction of this being also when it was sensed by those individuals who made the prediction, they were also some of them predicting from the point of view that the idea of all cultures blending together on your earth was something to be feared.

**Speaker 11:** I see.

**Channel:** And thus it was looked at as a representation of evil because it was viewed that those cultures not within their particular idea of a path to God as you say those cultures come into contact with their culture was viewed as anathema. You follow me?

**Speaker 11:** Anathema.

**Channel:** Yes. Something that is not allowed. something that is outside their idea of what righteousness and truth is all about. So because they feared all the other cultures then they must Yes. and thus gave rise to a part and portion of the prediction that contains the fear within it that the idea of unification in and of itself is thus representative of the idea you have created what you call evil. You follow me?

**Speaker 11:** Is that is it kind of like at all? Is there any similarities to when you talked about the black week and um the resistance and the moving into almost the same kind of evil as a mistake at first? We talked about that Saturday night with Seth.

**Channel:** Do you mean what you turn to be this negative entity?

**Speaker 11:** Yeah. Or the creation of that type of...

**Channel:** Yes. Fear in and of itself is allowance for that negative vibration to exist. Do you follow me? The idea that you can be under someone else's control is allowance of that negative energy to exist. Confusion within yourself can be an opportunity for you to allow that negative energy to exist. Understand that the modes of the idea are quite subtle, not very blatant. All it requires is your agreement to allow another to take responsibility for you. That is all.

**Speaker 11:** But in a sense, isn't that what born again Christians do? They're allowing they're not taking responsibility.

**Channel:** That is the paradox of what they say. You follow me?

**Speaker 11:** I follow you.

**Channel:** It is the fear of that negative energy that allows them to perpetuate the vibration of that negative energy. That's why they feel they have to create God. They see it as a war, as a struggle. And in this way do they create the idea of the battle that you call Armageddon. It does not have to occur that way. We've moved on so far. If everything became nice and unified, that would also signify.

**Speaker 11:** Yes. As you say, catch 22. Sounds like having fun though, right? I mean, in their own way, they're having not consciously many of them are not. I mean, there there's some kind of interest in it that they want to have.

**Channel:** Yes. But many times it can be fear in that way that will perpetuate that reality. How was brother and God's going to punish you and the devil's after you and you straighten you mean he doesn't really like it? All right. Now, let me say of course it all is serving all of your purposes because it is a part of your civilization, a part of your consciousness. It is simply one more opportunity for you to realize you have complete freedom of choice. If you know, if you know that you are of the vibration of allowance, service to all that is, and self-empowerment, you will know that that reality, even should it occur, will not occur to you because you will not be of the vibration of that dimension. If they experience it, they will experience it somewhere else. It will not be on your front lawn.

**Speaker 11:** So then is a way to um assist in that way as a way to to kind of allow this person maybe that's the way is to allow them with their belief and just keep learning whatever of course then you become more of the vibration of that reality which can then radiate out to them in love and light and allow them to choose that viewpoint if they wish to.

**Channel:** You make it affordable to them. You allow there to be an opportunity for that reality to exist on your planet so that they can then if they choose to identify with it to be able to find it. You follow me? They are allowing you to reflect off of them to create that reality which then you can reflect back. It is all a matter of choice and ultimately really will not matter. You will once again, as you have all before, as you say, quote unquote in between lies. You will all hash it out all over again. Oh, wasn't that fun?

**Speaker 11:** Yes, I played a great role.

### Topic: Telepathy, Spirit Guides, and Vibrational Keys
**Speaker 12:** Um, I was up in Malibu last year, too. And, um, it was interesting the way things happened. Um, I went up I had planned a whole bunch of people with me and that just didn't happen. So I ended up going by myself to Malibu Canyon and I was lying. Hiked up a mountain by myself and the crystal that I brought I I kept charged with that kind of energy of a different vibration that would allow for something of that. I have some telepathic communication and I'm wondering where was that communication from? Where did you feel? Well, I mean, I I went through a whole thing, you know, going, "Oh, you're lying out here in the old Malibu and here you are thinking you have this tough communication with these." He like had a hard time. I really went through like crazy.

**Channel:** Did you listen to the communications at all?

**Speaker 12:** Of course, I went through that and I said, "No, that's all programming." And so, I just...

**Channel:** What did the communications say?

**Speaker 12:** Communications said, "React and receive." Then what? You are to be a store of vibration. Then what? It will not be in your consciousness until you will take it to certain people and then that will then...

**Channel:** What is so crazy about that?

**Speaker 12:** Well, that wasn't crazy. It was like getting to the point where I could receive that. You know, it just to me it amazes me how what mind trips I do sometimes and what you know why those are there. And ultimately it doesn't matter why you're there because I went through them one more time as I keep doing. All right? You know to expand my own consciousness and embrace all that is...

**Channel:** Then understand that as you do all of that to expand your consciousness that is where the messages were coming from your higher self. Follow me. You were in a very real way talking to yourself. You're not invalidated.

**Speaker 12:** No, no, no. Then two days ago, I was in Japan hiking and I was in a joint meditation with another felt like I was there was an Indian there with me. Was quite a jokester.

**Channel:** It was in that way what you call spirit. You follow me. Mhm. In this sense, you will find that there are a few of them that have decided to stick around for a while. They understand that your civilization is beginning to explore the ways that their civilization lives by. They will act as guides from time to time for individuals who take those steps in those directions. What a humorous individual in life and even more so in death.

**Speaker 12:** Does the spirit belong to that mountain?

**Channel:** No. No. Not the government likes to hang around that area. That is where the original physical being used to reside.

**Speaker 12:** Right. That's what I said. Okay. So then right after that once again it's like a trans state. I'm not unconscious but I'm not conscious. One moment.

**Channel:** Okay. Do not be sorry. Explore with us for a moment. The spirit. Close your eyes. Use your imagination. Allow yourself to relax. Allow yourself to breathe in the atmosphere of that area knowing that you are breathing in not only the physical air but the energy essence that is contained within the representation of that physical locality. Identify with the complete and total atmosphere of that locality. Are you doing that in your imagination right now? Can you feel the idea of the spirit in your imagination? Tell us when you do. Would you like to call that spirit by a certain name comes to you? When you say this again, say it aloud, do you find that the spirit resonates and will come to that call? Right? Then understand that you may use that idea when you are in that area or anywhere that you wish to be to call that frequency be in communion with it. If you allow yourself to open up to that idea when you do use that vibrational key to call that spirit it can function and is willing to function as a guide for you. You may also explore another vibrational word which begins with your letter K. This we are told we will have to leave up to you. Okay. But use the vibration of the name to explore and be in communion in your meditative state with that spirit and with your higher consciousness. Carry on in your imagination a conversation between your higher consciousness, you your consciousness here and that spirit.

**Speaker 12:** Are you saying tante has another name that begins with T?

**Channel:** There is another idea, another vibration. Yes. Now, all right. Are you familiar at all with any of what you turn to be the American Indian cultural rituals?

**Speaker 12:** I'm a here and there. I remember some from other lives, but not too much.

**Channel:** All right. We were before speaking of the idea you call the natural herbs that you ascribe to the idea of drugs. Then the K will be what you turn to be. Kik will be red willow bark. It will be what was used in smoking the pipe. Now, not to say that you must smoke. Simply though, that the idea of the smoking ceremony was to be putting the individuals in that conversational vibration through which they communicated ideas from spirit to spirit rather than simply from mind to mind. You can then use that idea kink as the word identity vibration that will initiate for you the three-way conversation as you sit around and smoke the spiritual pipe. Mhm. communication and see what flows in that exchange between the three of you.

**Speaker 12:** All right. My higher self, yourself and the spirit not pan correct.

**Channel:** You may use kinik as a substitute idea for the spirit. You may use pante as well. But if you simply say and identify with the vibration of kinik, you will be calling all three into conference. You follow me? As it will represent that you are calling for a pipe ceremony. Spirit spirit. Yes. But you can be conscious of the flow of communication.

**Speaker 12:** Yes. Thank you. briefly. Yeah, I I got the name when you...

**Channel:** It will represent another type of flow which is in your particular perception and more connected to the nature essence.

**Speaker 12:** Oh, as in Kachina. Okay. Is was that name associated with that?

**Channel:** It is associated with that spirit's group of consciousness. Yes. Not particular individual.

**Speaker 12:** Okay.

**Channel:** You always are going to change the mass consciousness by changing yourself simply as we said it was representative of a symbol for you to allow yourself to identify with being able to associate with your idea of your future self and make it your present self. That is a part of the agreement you have already made. You follow me? You have to walk in softly. The agreement that you have made with the mass consciousness is not an egg show. Worried about being happy. Choose to be happy and your reality will reflect that idea. If you know that your reality will be the reality of happiness and everything in your physical reality will support that idea. You do not have to be a light treader. Be bold. Be creative. Okay. Um I was only um there is no supposed to. You follow me? There is no such thing as should or should not or supposed to. You owe your feelings. See what reality it brings you. If you do not like it, do something else. Period. That is all there is to it. So there's nothing. You create your own. As you say, sacred cows. That is up to you. But when you create them, simply recognize that you will always discover when you come around to the other side that it is only a tool and you have created it for your own purpose. It is valid in the sense that the I'll say tool that you call astrology will represent to a generalized degree the ideas of the agreements and the vibrational patterns that do represent the particular path of mass consciousness has chosen to abide by. It will be as a tool a little bit more reflective of the vibrational reality that has been chosen to some degree. But individually it is and can be very very very personal and can change much more rapidly than the idea of the overall idea. In the same way that you understand as you say in physics that though the reality of the entire substance of a material can be in a sense predicted the reality of the individual constructional atoms within it are random actions. Do you follow me?

**Speaker 12:** In that way, you will find that as a mass consciousness, there is a great deal of momentum energy which can be pointed at as being quote unquote in your terms predictable in a loose sense of that word. But the individuals within it even informing that predictability may act in a random manner because they have free will. You are always going to abide by the agreement in that sense. Understand that even if you should suicide, you will still find yourself as we said coming back to fulfill the agreement. Therefore, don't worry about it. Okay? As long as you know that you are not forcing yourself upon anyone else in that way, having to make someone else be your point of view. In that sense, if you are not acting consciously maliciously in that way, the sky and freely quite beyond it is the limit. You are unlimited. Do whatever you wish with the symbols you give yourself. They are yours. You have created them. There is no need to treat them like fine glass. If they break, that is a symbol. Take it as such and live it. All right. You may take a short break. Thank you.

### Guided Meditation: The Hummingbird
**Channel:** Is an alignment of the physical, mental and spiritual ideas, vibrations of your consciousness. Now, each and every one of you may in whatever form your imagination deems appropriate because each and every one of you are your own path. It will not matter if you diversify from this idea. But know that you are performing the essence of it anyway. No matter what your conscious mind may tell you in this sense, simply know that you are identifying at this time with the synchronizing harmonizing with every breath in and out. You will begin to in this sense share the blending of the energy with every other individual in the room. At this time, knowing that the vibrations of your higher self are coming into play, knowing the vibrations are synchronizing with every other individual in the room. knowing that the vibrations are stepping up within each and every one of yourselves and therefore within the overall mass consciousness within the group as represented by yourselves in this way collectively and within the mass consciousness of your entire civilization of this high for you will have an effect. Each and every one of you will have an effect. The entire group consciousness will have an effect and the mass consciousness will make a transformation in this way. No, at this time that you can begin to identify with the stepping up to this vibration by having within you the symbol of the idea we have discussed many times before. This time there time is a great time to exist the idea you may call hummingbird. Allow each and every one of yourselves to now envision yourselves as a hummingbird. Allow yourself to hover in place. All you facing this way as you are within the seats as you understand yourself not paying homage but simply sitting there identifying yourself signifying yourself declaring yourself with conviction to be this higher vibratory energy that sees above and beyond all the ideas of the limitations within the physical reality. Knowing the vibrations that you represent in this way is of another step, another level, another idea of yourselves which can perceive all the underlying vibrations that are contained within all the other personality portions of your consciousness. At this time you may see yourselves as you hover in place very easily within the higher vibrations. You know you are made of iridescent shade, iridescent colors, reflections, golds, white, black, iridescent reds, blues, greens, violets, every shade of the spectrum. In this way you may radiate with its scales and the feathers that reflect the glow of vibrant energy, vibrant color. You are catching the vibration and reflection of each other's colors in all of the feathers that you have. You are creating an atmosphere round and about yourself with the vibrating of your wings as you hover in place in this way. You are adding to the sonic idea of the hum that you have as you sit and vibrate in this way with your eyes closed knowing that you are at the center of this entire vibration. yourself the source of yourself and that the symbolic idea represented by the hummingbird of nature in this way is the communication of your higher self to you in this way. It is a symbol you can use. It is a symbol you can know. It is a symbol you do create all the time in your time that you create time to exist. As you know yourself to be as the vibration of time itself of space itself the vibration of reality itself. In this way you can know that from this perspective of the hummingbird idea symbology you are your own higher consciousness. You are vibrating accord to all other hummingbird consciousness which is all other higher consciousness. Therefore, you are in accord and always in communication with every other higher consciousness and therefore in total accordance agreement with the entire mass consciousness as you have agreed in this way for the a manifestation of the unfoldment of your purpose in this physical life, the physical life of the group consciousness and the physical life of the mass consciousness as it manifests as your civilization upon the surface of your planet. Are you all following me alone?

**Group:** Yes.

**Channel:** All right. Now, with this blending, then allow yourself the feeling of lightness. Allow yourself the feeling of the unconditional love with support. you as you hover in midair knowing that there is no effort. You are simply supported support of of creation itself and that you can hear and the portions which you allow yourself to envision them. The particular aspects, facets of the crystallin, all that is that represents and reflects. And the humming being the excitement vibration of excitement and joy and existence that you know is a representation of the path that within the hummingbird consciousness that is always within the vibrational zones and within the perceptions that allow it in this way to know that it is perceiving all the myriad of itself. all the million connections to all of our personalities, all of the culture of the personality within itself. And as it creates visions, visions for its eyes that it knows to relate to, that these visions are no less real and no more real than any other vision. And that it is comprised the idea of what you call the totality of your physical reality. The totality of your imagination, every one of which is real, the imagination. reality forming the bridge between the physical and the dream. That you have communication from the physical level to the higher self in this way represented by the dream reality. And that you have flawless and flowing communication from the higher self into the consciousness that you are. That you are always completely self-empowered and supporting yourself there in midair supported by your own unconditional love of yourself of creation of all that is and the service that you provide with the beating of your wings in this way. The reminder of the reflectivity and the idea of the creation of time and the reminder of the reflectivity and the idea of the creation of the vibration of the knowingness of yourself in the center of yourself. As you stand another and watch all of creation flow round and about you realize that it is creation round and bound you that is moving and you are going now aware you are perfect stillness and your perfect infinite momentum. And when you achieve the idea of yourself being perfect infinite momentum you will understand that being everywhere at once is exactly the same experience as standing perfectly still. You may now open your eyes and be within your light selves, within your higher consciousness, knowing and feeling the flow of the connection with every personality within your own civilization in this way and with all the personality portions within your own consciousness as you allow yourself to come together this night of your time as you create time to exist within the perfect manifestation of the creation that you have created this night of your time that you have allowed us out of your unconditional love as a gift to share with you. We thank you very much for that. We will take questions. Thank you.

### Topic: Impact on Mass Consciousness
**Speaker 13:** Um can you uh tell us what kind of effect this exercise form has had just now on the mass consciousness?

**Channel:** Anything you wish it to have. It has an overall effect in that way. It will have created the idea of the uplifting of the vibration in this way for the general mass consciousness and allows there to be more perception of the sense more perspective that way of the overview and more reach of possibilities in the imagination. You follow me?

**Speaker 13:** Yes. I got the idea that um earlier tonight that whereas at one time I and perhaps others viewed each individual's influence on the mass consciousness as one vote, it seemed like insignificant as hell. Not so much that I remind you that if you create held yourself that it's not insignificant, right?

**Channel:** Okay. Figurative. Yes, understand in that way. Understand that it's not insignificant in that sense. Though there is always the agreement of the mass consciousness to go along with the idea. It's not that you control or change the mass consciousness in that way. It is that you allow the idea of there to be the infinitess of the possibilities within that which you contain for yourself being your own complete universe. Thus allowing the rest of the mass consciousness to sense for itself the idea of that completeness and have a choice. Thus you are adding to the overall possibilities which the overall math consciousness can sense. And in that way you do make a very great difference.

**Speaker 13:** Right? It's like I got the idea that it wasn't just casting of one vote but as you cast your figuratively speaking one vote others see your vote cast and may in in their voting cast their vote um in a similar way or in some way as you contain the idea of all probabilities all possibilities in that sense understand that it's not a matter of mass consciousness being 100% you being 1% it is a matter of mass consciousness being 100% each and every one of you also being your own 100%.

**Channel:** Yeah. As you allow yourself to be 100% then the mass consciousness can add another 100% to its sense its idea of itself. You follow me?

**Speaker 13:** Yes. Okay.

### Topic: Manifesting a Motorcycle
**Speaker 13:** I have another question. Actually, this is sharing probably. I've been exploring the last month or so the idea of getting a new motorcycle. And when I first thought of it, I uh was um very excited and in certain respects excited about getting a new motorcycle. I thought, well, this is great. You know, I'll just let it come to me. All all of the elements required for this idea will occur. And um I wasn't worried about when it would happen. But as time went on, I did notice that it hadn't already happened. I thought, well, there's other ways of going about doing this. I really didn't put any specific manner on how it would happen. I knew that I could. Um...

**Channel:** Did you also consider the possibility that you might not need it?

**Speaker 13:** Yes.

**Channel:** Did you allow that to be equal to every other possibility?

**Speaker 13:** Yes. Yes. It was just that I had I was quite excited about it and so I thought well this excitement will probably manifest motorcycles. There's there's lots of ways I can do it. I can actually quote make it happen by putting down some money that I could borrow. Now um according to uh certain viewpoints of um finances that would to some degree overextend me but on the other hand it wouldn't be a big problem because if I did that it would be the perfect thing to do. Oh, it would be just one of the ways that I could well the manifestation of the motorcycle could occur. So, it's like both ways are exciting to me. Just letting that unfold in whatever way it will happen or making it happen or also the idea of allowing yourself to know you already have it and get on with the next idea.

**Channel:** Yeah. The more you concentrate on any idea specifically in the present focus, then you're not allowing the energy to manifest it in that way. The more you understand that it is already yours and you go on to the next idea, then you'll be taking pressure off the immediate focus and allowing it to manifest.

**Speaker 13:** Okay, I did that. Um, but my attention goes back to you once in a while.

**Channel:** It will not make a difference. Uh-huh. Do not judge it to do so. If you don't allow it to make a difference in the judging in that way, it will not make a difference.

**Speaker 13:** Well, no, I didn't intend for it to make a difference. Um intention is not the same thing. I'm not exactly sure what you're saying here.

**Channel:** Simply understand this way that you have the excitement and you have the knowingness in that way. At that moment that you have created that idea that in that moment you were equal to the idea. Know that if it needs to manifest it will manifest and you can get on with your life. You do not have to in that way worry about whether the idea comes across your mind again and again. You already know that you have created the idea of the manifestation and it is working perfectly in that way. If you think about it now and then it will not matter. It will not affect the idea of the original manifestation idea. You follow me?

**Speaker 13:** Yes. And I do understand this and I've already looked at this and I've I have understood this. I'm also aware and by the way there's no worry or concern here. It's just a matter of exploring something that's interesting here. Uh I'm also aware that getting the idea that I can borrow the money and pay for the motorcycle that way is one of the ways it can manifest maybe your way of doing it.

**Channel:** Yeah. In other words, you give yourself the opportunity if you act upon it then you will find readily enough and quickly enough whether that is the optimum way. If you act upon it, the longer you wait to act upon it, then you will not know. You will always have the wondering what if what if? with you follow me.

**Speaker 13:** Yes. Except that I'm willing to either do it that way or allow any other way to happen. Also, right?

**Channel:** But you have given yourself an opportunity to allow that which comes across you first in terms of a time you have manifested. If you feel that way so identified with that idea, then do it. But it only occurs in terms of a thought.

**Speaker 13:** Um so what being able see the ability yes the ability to uh borrow money occurred from the very moment that I even conceived of getting a new bike. Um, but it wasn't something that I thought that I was really excited about. In fact, I'm still not excited about borrowing the money. It's just having the bike that is exciting. And I'm aware that this is one of the paths that I can do to make it manifest.

**Channel:** Yes. Have you acted out the idea by going to the motorcycle you want and taking it for a ride?

**Speaker 13:** Uh, no. Because you can't do that.

**Channel:** Can you sit on it?

**Speaker 13:** Yes, I've done that. The actual motorcycle that I want is still in parts and they'd have to assemble it.

**Channel:** Then so was your idea. [Music]

**Speaker 13:** I have gone to a motorcycle which has similar similar inmate and model and so on. I have sat on and I've played with it. It's lots of fun. Um they don't allow you to drive it. But the actual one that I would get would be one that I would order and they would make it up special. The one that's on the showing floor.

**Channel:** May I ask you a question about your civilization? Why would they not allow you to drive it?

**Speaker 13:** It's insurance purposes. Uh they are afraid you're going to crash it.

**Channel:** And uh what does that got to do with anything? Can you not manifest for yourself the opportunity to drive it? If that is what you really need, you can...

**Speaker 13:** I don't really need to drive it.

**Channel:** All right. I know what the bike I know how the bike handles. I I know the bike.

**Speaker 13:** Very good. I've ridden similar ones.

**Channel:** We're simply offering you the opportunity to explore the idea that even what you told him to be hard and fast rules are not always so if it fits into the manifestation.

**Speaker 13:** Yes, I do understand that. I do understand that. But I'm perfectly willing not to to ride the bike. I don't need to ride the bike. It's not for this manifestation.

**Channel:** All right, then. Enjoy your motorcycle when you get it.

### Topic: The Argon and Numerology
**Speaker 13:** Okay. I have a couple more questions if I'm uh do you have any communications from the Argon for me?

**Channel:** Not until you define it.

**Speaker 13:** Okay. um group of beings um channeled through uh Iris Bel Hayes to uh myself and another guy logical information. I don't know that it's...

**Channel:** Was that the original intent of the contact with them?

**Speaker 13:** No. Um they contacted us. Uh they came through during a channeling that was uh for for other purposes.

**Channel:** Did you direct questions toward them? Some were they of a technological nature?

**Speaker 13:** No, not really.

**Channel:** What were they of?

**Speaker 13:** They were of the nature of life. Most of them really are guns themselves. People realize they can provide you with much technological information. They are of that type.

**Channel:** I didn't know that.

**Speaker 13:** Okay, great. Thank you. That that helps. One more one more question. I also uh went to Maldo and I didn't expect to see one, but if I if I had I would have found that entertaining. Um but I did keep my eyes open. I did feel all of them. All of my eyes inner and outer. I Yeah, I get your question. Of course you do. I don't Well, yes, I I know, but consciously I don't know.

**Channel:** You manifested perfectly as always as everyone does.

**Speaker 13:** Yes, I don't doubt that. Did you enjoy yourself?

**Speaker 13:** Yes, I did. Thank you. On a couple of occasions, I felt an energy flow. Actually, it was quite interesting. In one case, I actually had the sensation of energy entering my body and kind of hooking, I guess, right in the middle of my thoracic cavity, just kind of hooking in my body. And it maintained there. I I flowed some energy of my own through my body and which caused the sensation to be extremely intense. It was quite entertaining.

**Channel:** Partially connection to the energy you seek, the information you seek, partially a future self connection, partially assisted by other consciousness. One moment. Oh, um um do can you give me I have a couple questions. The first one insight from your perspective on the hunger situation on our planet. It's it's a symbolism for the consciousness and some immediate steps to alleviate that. First of all, understand that everyone again is within choice and understand simply as we have said before that we will simply say basically for now for the rest of it is up to you and your choice that the idea of physical starvation is an opportunity for your culture to be of assistance in such a way that that other culture allows you to relieve your spiritual starvation. They are abundant in their own way. Um, another question. I've read uh in the book of space anomalies about a shift in the planetary energies that occurred years and years and years and eons ago between the belts of Orion, the fire the fire [Music] That was when Noah's the big great flood of the planet happened. Is that inaccurate?

**Channel:** There is some of this idea that can be expressed as an accurate connection but not exactly allegorically as you have said. It will represent many different connections for which there is not at this time time enough to go into. But allow me to say that it is somewhat connected with the idea though again never out of anything other than choice even of the earth itself in that experience. But there is a connection part of which is beginning to be manifested now once again upon your planet within the exploratory idea of the freedom of choice between positive and negative energy. There is in that way the connection of what is termed to be the negative energies as represented by the Orion civilization and the positive energies as represented by the Palladian civilization with regard to the future choices that would be made as another transformation were to occur upon your own planet through another shifting once again.

**Speaker 13:** Did that shift in the two energies have anything to do with the great flood or is that not accurate?

**Channel:** What you term to be that flood is connected to some degree but again not in a controlling situation but there was connection. Understand also that what you term to be the flood for the most part is your historical remembrance of what is termed to be the destruction of the area you call Atlantis.

**Speaker 13:** Okay. And just quickly, your energy seems completely not completely different, but very very different than the first break. When you did the um the energy gathering for us, did that affect your energy, too? You seem very different.

**Channel:** Of course, it allowed us to breathe an atmosphere of energy more like unto our own civilization, higher energy.

**Speaker 13:** Okay. Thank you. Thank you. I wanted to ask if uh if every week we could have a dose of that...

**Channel:** All right. Now, allow me to say we will do so, but also allow me to say quite figuratively, if I may use your colloquialism, you have stuck your own foot in it because many times I will ask one of you to perform that idea.

**Speaker 13:** All right, that's cool with me.

**Channel:** Very good. Thank you for enjoying sticking your feet in it. Right. Yeah. One moment. Go ahead.

**Speaker 13:** Oh, the other thing was when I was out in Mal Malibu, I uh fell asleep in the bed of my truck.

**Channel:** How convenient for your truck to have a bed to fall asleep in. And uh you designed them well, I see.

**Speaker 13:** And I uh I mean I felt a presence there, you know, but really I felt a presence of other beings there alive.

**Channel:** That entire area has been for the past three of your weeks in your terms quite bombarded with energy. Uh okay. with that connection.

**Speaker 13:** Why that specific area? Is there anything?

**Channel:** It is an energy point. It is a sensitivity point as you might understand that the entire earth has its acupressure points.

**Speaker 13:** Okay, good. I'm glad you said that because I've had this goal to move toward that area.

**Channel:** Go right ahead.

**Speaker 13:** Is that uh we will not recommend follow your feelings. It will always lead you exactly where you need to be. Even if that does not manifest as expected, you will be following your path. Make a move in the direction of your imagination and you will always be on the right track. All right. with that. Would you have an interest in connecting with your guys with me when I go to sleep tonight?

**Channel:** That might be Well, the hell with it. I mean, I'd like to I'd like to visit you guys. Then you may do so. Allow yourself the opportunity as you are drifting off to sleep to reflect on the vibration of what you turn to be the number number 10. Allow yourself to structure in your imagination a three-sided pyramid. Allow yourself to make it electric blue. Allow yourself to step into with blue. Allow yourself to step into with your mentality. Project your consciousness into that structure and know that it will project you into the vibration which you may communicate with our civilization. Understand that you may allow yourself the opportunity to undertake this idea for the next 3 weeks of your time. And within that time frame from now to 3 weeks from now, you will have a conscious recollection of a communication that will serve your purpose as it will never just be random chatter.

**Speaker 13:** All right. I love it. Thank you. Will that work for anyone else to use those visualizations or is that an individual?

**Channel:** You will make it individual but you may follow the vibrational pattern anyway. You will make it individual as you automatically need to. You may also explore the vibration of your number 14 and again see a four-sided pyramid and step into that. 14 is the standard communication vibration that is used to be in contact with your civilization and then you sort of refine it into your own number or is it this can because it's going your way that is specifically for our vibration at this time and 14 is for it to go to our civilization. It is also to go with the other connections you have within other consciousness of other civilizations that have already set up the agreements with you prior to us joining. Follow me.

**Speaker 13:** Mhm.

**Channel:** We are relative newcomers to your civilization. There have been civilizations in contact with you for many thousands of your years. And 14 is the number of the contact represented numerologically by the alay compilation down into five which is the number of your human form signature vibration similar to our radio frequency band. Yes.

### Topic: Numerology Symbols (K and A)
**Speaker 14:** Um I've been exploring different uh ways of the uh number the letters that I received and I went through the numerology book and all the information was quite fun and descriptive and um I I felt that I had quite a bit of information and not really any idea what to do with it. And then when you started talking tonight about the with um her about K being one of the first letters. Yes. Um I that kind of clicked for me in terms of it being the first letter of of some names as I put a question mark on the end of that. All right. And then okay of K and then Kacina. All right. That made sense to me that Kachina would be all right.

**Channel:** We will give you a hint.

**Speaker 14:** Oh good.

**Channel:** The K stands for knowledge. So that's that's it that I I get to figure out what the words stand for, right? I mean what the letters stand for.

**Channel:** Yes. Though each and every one of them may be different as you add on to the entire idea. Now understand since you had already manifested the first symbol that the entire formula would not have started with K but with A which would have been the abundance. K is now knowledge. You have already done the abundance symbol. That is why it was not included in the formula.

**Speaker 14:** Oh, and so these these are symbols that I am that represent a different type of manifestation that you can use to be of service in your way very creatively to yourself and to your civilization.

**Channel:** The abundant symbol will be one. All right. Now, the one you are exploring is the one of knowledge. You will manifest the symbol appropriately. Continue to explore.

**Speaker 14:** All right. Thank you. Thank you. Sure. One moment.

### Topic: Health Imbalance (Vitamin C)
**Speaker 15:** Okay. Yeah. A few weeks ago, I I uh had the flu and I took a lot of water and I didn't feel like I can eat, but I drank a lot of water and I took a lot of vitamin C in powder form and uh I thought that would help uh the healing process. But vitamin C is an acid and it can burn you. I took an awful lot of vitamin C and didn't need anything else. And I did create a burn and where it burned was in the end where I urinate in the tip of the penis. very painful right now and I believe I've created an infection because right now um my urine is coming out very very cloudy and uh...

**Channel:** All right you have created an imbalance yes you may allow yourself or have you already to rebalance in that way alkaline...

**Speaker 15:** Well I've stopped taking the vitamin C because I know it's too acid but I don't know exactly what else do you still have the idea you call your flu...

**Channel:** Not the flu no then you Hey, for now ingest the idea you call milk. You may also partake of the fruits you call papaya. You may also use mango. You may also use coconut. You may also eat the vegetable you call lettuce. These will along with the water you may continue to take cleanse and form a foundation for substance of the rebalancing of the system. And always in this way simply understand you have given yourself a manifestation of the idea of the excess of anything. Right? You will be fine. Okay? And you may utilize in visualization as always a very very very very very soothing white light. You may tinge it for now with green as well. Then let it shift to violet as it wishes to in your imagination.

**Speaker 15:** All right. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.

### Topic: Jesus, Moses, and Longevity
**Speaker 16:** Yes. Me or Craig decide among you? Can I go after you then? Sure. I um I had two questions. Number one, um Jesus. Um what was his actual name 2,000 years ago?

**Channel:** In that way, there were many as many pronunciations as there were civilizations. You can say is you can say isus. You can say is you can say many different things.

**Speaker 16:** What about what Mary and Joseph called him?

**Channel:** Kid. Our first one mostly in that area is is a nickname.

**Speaker 16:** How did we get Jesus out of all that?

**Channel:** You tell me cuz your languages.

**Speaker 16:** Okay, let's skip that. Okay, let's skip that. Um uh my other question was how many times has or it's none of my business but I just curious has Jesus reincarnated since then?

**Channel:** None. There is only the one manifestation in that sense although there were multiple manifestations slightly before and at the same time of the same consciousness.

**Speaker 16:** Was Moses Jesus an aspect?

**Channel:** Yes. but of a different type. Also that which you call John the Baptist.

**Speaker 16:** Oh yeah. Was Jesus also an aspect?

**Channel:** Yes. Of the same consciousness. Also in a sense. In a sense. In a sense. So was Judas.

**Speaker 16:** I knew I knew you were going to say that. Wow. Um about that time was I um on the planet and was my name David?

**Channel:** You did live at that time. Yes. Some knew you as David, but you traveled far and some knew you by other names.

**Speaker 16:** And did I die before 30 in a manner of speaking?

**Channel:** Yes. Although you did have another life right after that.

**Speaker 16:** Would you live to be 87? Why do people like in the Bible said they live to be 935 years old? Was that true or was it?

**Channel:** Yes. Yes. Understand? You will notice in that way that as it approaches your time, the ages became less and less.

**Speaker 16:** Is that because we didn't need that much time to develop our spirit?

**Channel:** It just It is because of the choice of experiencing limitation. When you first were closer to the idea allegorically of being in that way, closer to the time when you projected your consciousness into physical materiality, there was much in the way of the unlimitation at that time. You were pretty clear then.

**Speaker 16:** Yes. And the more we live, the more we live physically, the more we forgot it was just a game.

**Channel:** Yes. And the more time became, the more accelerated in that sense.

**Speaker 16:** That's why now we can all be 300 because we know better. because we're integrating.

**Channel:** Yes.

**Speaker 16:** Okay. Thank you. According to the Christian Bible, the world began like 4,000 years BC, but I think that time calculation's a little bit off. How long was it BC when people really did live to be 900 years old?

**Channel:** There were a few as described in that way between the idea you call five and 6,000 of your years ago, but that has nothing to do with the formation of your planet nor the injection of consciousness into materiality upon it. But there were individuals that long ago who did live to those ages and longer ago and longer lives even yet.

**Speaker 16:** Were they descendants of Atlantis?

**Channel:** Some Yes. and Lamura were very long lived.

**Speaker 16:** There's probably a few people somewhere on our earth that are living long long lives right now, but not just not not in our civilization necessarily.

**Channel:** Yes. Very few. But we see the extension of uh the lifespan during this transformation.

**Speaker 16:** Yes. He's told us that before we live to be 2009, we lived. Yes. Yes. Two things since we brought up Jesus is is that um the only physical life then that you that the essence or the the that as that personality.

**Channel:** Yes. As the collective personality. Yes. It is the only one necessary. Understand this is a transcendental consciousness. So what the density is fifth fifth symmetry connected to that idea.

### Topic: Malibu Experience and Alien Encounters
**Speaker 17:** Okay. Now, also, um, me and Erica went to Malibu, too. Um, we drove up this road and we got yelled at by this guy who cuz he drove up in his driveway and then we and then we we went up this winding road and then we finally found a spot after driving around a while that we wanted to be in and then these guys came along. I could think about three guys, kind of party type guys, parked right near us and um were kind of a little loud. Not real loud, but a little bit. You know, we figured Yes. must have been drinking beer or something. And then um uh we saw a lot of airplanes and a lot of energy. Did you move again?

**Speaker 17:** No.

**Channel:** No. Why not?

**Speaker 17:** Well, we took a while to find that spot. Was saying maybe it was a sign that we weren't supposed to be there.

**Channel:** You had given yourself the opportunity to recognize that you always created the symbol that showed you that was not where you wanted to be.

**Speaker 17:** I look at it a different way. I thought, well, why I could just tune that out? Why allow that to...

**Channel:** Well, that is an allowance of a different sort, but it had nothing to do with the original purpose.

**Speaker 17:** Oh, well, anyway. So, then we saw a lot of airplane and um then I felt I felt a lot of energy and then I felt sick. I had a headache and got a little nauseous and then got in the car and drove away. My mom and then Erica said maybe those guys were really the aliens.

**Channel:** In a sense, thank you. No, understand. Yes. was an opportunity for you in that moment to have changed your mind about what you wanted to integrate. You could use it that way because you can use your symbols that you give yourself in any number of different kinds of ways because your symbols have just as many aspects to them as you do. Thus, you can change your focus and change the focus of the symbol you create for yourself. But you will find that you could also have moved and accomplished something else or stayed and accomplished what you did or many other ideas. Mhm. It was a very generalized symbol and contained many possible aspects which could have manifested. Thank you.

**Speaker 17:** Then I had a mentally um communication maybe it was with myself. I'm not sure where it was from but just it it said to me that I had to um accustom myself to the sound. Something like that. I had I don't know. It had something to do with maybe the the spaceship or or just some some sound alien to our planet or something that I have to um...

**Channel:** Any sound can be found within you. Okay. Because you contain all the vibrations necessary to make connections to any other idea. Mhm. Find that sound within you. Create it for yourself and you will surround yourself with that reality and be in touch with it. Understand you could also have used that situation to create that sound round and about yourselves to such a degree that those other individuals would not have even perceived you as being present.

**Speaker 17:** Maybe we wouldn't perceive that as being present.

**Channel:** Yes, that is true.

**Speaker 17:** Okay. Well, thank you.

### Topic: AIDS and Integration
**Speaker 18:** Yes. What is the treatment for a...

**Channel:** Understand first of all that if you wish me to say the treatment it will be the same as the cause your mind that is the only the treatment. There can be other ideas in your material universe that can be a treatment. They will all stem first of all first of all from allowing that symbol to serve its function. The function that that symbol has been created to serve is to allow there to be a bridge between different factions in your society. to drop the barriers of prejudice and allow there to be the acceptance even as the immunity barriers drop to allow in changes, transformation and new idea which is what death always symbolizes complete and total transformation of the being. Understand in this way that the primary reason it began in the first place was from the I'll say lack of allowance of the male and female energy within each and every one of you to be blended. Thus you created the dichotomy of the struggle of having to express male and female energy in many different ways physically. Once you created the idea then once having established that premise of then needing still while not being able to look at it of forcing yourself to look at it in that way by breaking down the barriers that separate each and every one of you and bring you together. Understand that that is what is occurring right now. You are finding that all of the different individuals who are here to for said they would have nothing to do with all these other factions are now rallying together. It's true in common cause and exploring the entire idea bringing into focus forcing themselves to face the idea of the I'll say blending of female and male energy within each individual. The more you allow this to serve this purpose, then you will automatically either find a quote unquote cure to reflect the cure within yourself that has taken place or you will simply allow it to change, allow it to become non-existent by what you term to be a mutation. This can also occur. that particular viral form can mutate into a non-infectious form. Do you follow me? You can through the idea of your mental energy allow it to do so. You can vibrate in touch with a reality that does not contain that viral form, that symbol within it in such a way that it can then be said to have mutated out of existence in that way in the same way it manifested in. Now certain symbols that you call chemical can also be used by many individuals. Allow me to say that the individuals already of that particular type of nature to I'll say dabble in chemical symbols will be on the right track to some degree. Allow me to say there is an opportunity within the substance you also call a refinement of cherry to look into that idea. The rearrangement of the molecular structure of that particular fruit can have some benefit in that way. explore it explore it all. You will also find that blue, blue, blue, blue, electric blue vibrational resonance in terms of straight frequency can have that effect as well. Also you can find that magnetic fields magnetic fields can cause a suspension of the activity within the genetic structure of the viral form. Exposure to certain frequencies of magnetic fields allow it to be for now the idea of the 7 and 1/2 cycles per second that represents the earth crystal. It will allow individuals exposed to such a vibration at 7 and 1/2 cycles per second to get in touch with their connection to the earth and the basic reasons for the formation of any ideal within nature in that way that the earth provides as a symbol for the exploration of that portion of your consciousness. The crystal you call emerald will be particularly beneficial for this idea as well. And you may allow many individuals upon holding the crystal emerald and in this way also exploring the red vibration, the vibrant red vibration with connection also to the vibrant green vibration. Thus also exemplified within that idea that is called cherry upon your planet. The red and the green will be found in this way to have some exemplification within halting. And allow me to say that also symbolically in this way that by the time you understand the idea of the usages of those vibration in conjunction with each other the red and the green that is your idea you call Christmas time you will have also found what you term to be a breakthrough in this idea.

**Speaker 18:** Dr. Peewood said there would be a cure that has to do with sound that is the vibration of the 7 and 1/2 cycles per second.

**Channel:** Yes. There is an instrument called the electro acry which delivers a very variety of vibratory frequency and um acupuncture without needing. There is a psychological approach called neural linguistic programming. Yes, that will be of benefit as well. The two together. Yes. A variation of the first direct application of the second will work. Understand in this way it is again as you say the neural linguistic programming one more way to get in touch with the center of the self and the creation of causes within the self. You follow me?

**Speaker 18:** Yeah. And again as we said it will be a representation of the choosing of another vibration of another reality which has nothing to do with that viral form. Mhm. When you say a variation of the...

**Channel:** Mhm. When you say a variation of the first of the electrois, yes, it will be a variation of that idea. In other words, it will be a refinement of the process that is now used. More sensitivity can be used to discover that refinement.

**Speaker 18:** Thank you. Thank you. Question.

### Topic: Movie Project and Blockages
**Speaker 19:** Yes. Um I have a couple questions here. One is for a while I've been identifying with a um a movie production out on a limb for several months and I've you know done everything I can in physical reality to um to I think lead to the manifestation of it and I've I've been this weekend I was working with this channel Kevin Ryerson and John who channels through him was informed that I was indeed a part of this soul group that was forming to work for a three-year cycle. Yikes. Okay. I I you know I that's all good and that's all well and I quit my job and I feel this magnetic pull towards this project and yet it hasn't manifested quite yet and it's almost there. Not all the players are yet in place. Okay. I'm just wondering understand that it's by mass agreement as well. Okay. I what I have this space here and it's really I'm I'm meditating a lot. I'm working with the finer energies a lot to keep myself still as in that hummingbird image.

**Channel:** Allow me to ask you a question.

**Speaker 19:** Yes, please do.

**Channel:** If the project were already underway, what would you be doing?

**Speaker 19:** It is already underway.

**Channel:** Thank you. Would you do anything different than you are doing now?

**Speaker 19:** Yes, I' I'd be on it. If I had the choice of it, I'd be more actively on it. It's not quite time for that yet. I don't guess. But I the space I'm waiting. I mean, I know it's there. I know that project is me and yet there's still space. So, it's in the matter of the timing.

**Channel:** Yes. So for me, I I don't explore the timing. Then use your imagination to explore the timing. You can then allow yourself to be attracted to the other individuals who will also be involved.

**Speaker 19:** Well, I've done that as much as I can. It's just like but there's still it's like I can feel the pull and I can feel it's going to be down the road a bit.

**Channel:** Then all we can say to you at this time if that is your choice is to simply continue to follow the pool.

**Speaker 19:** Okay. One other question on manifestation of idea because that's what this has been. This is part of that whole thing that I learned 15 years ago about ease of creation because it's been very easy to create this thus far and yet when I'm on the home stretch there's this space there and in the past which I know I'm a new new person every moment I filled that space with anxiety.

**Channel:** All right. You are exploring as many individuals are at this time simply the idea of blockages themselves. You follow me?

**Speaker 19:** Yeah. In other words, there follow me. Okay.

**Channel:** You are exploring the idea of blockages themselves while you have the time to do so. You will not have the time later.

**Speaker 19:** I know. I know that. My question on manifestation is do I in this interim my my another part of me says I should be going ahead and working on other projects and yet I feel like by doing that I'm canceling the very idea.

**Channel:** Nope. As we said you can look at it in the way that if you are going on to creating the beginning foundations of other things beyond this project you are taking it for granted that this project is already taking care of itself. That is acting as if the project is real. If the project to you were really real, you would be involved in it and also thinking about what you would be doing next because this one would have already been taken for granted that it is accomplished. Therefore, if you are going to work on other projects, it can be used as a form of cancelling but in your case does not have to be. If you simply understand that you can look toward other projects as simply being that which you will do beyond the project you are already involved in which you can now take it for granted is going to manifest unto itself. Okay. That way you are reaching beyond the immediate and therefore can contain all of the immediate. You follow me?

**Speaker 19:** I do. I I I don't know why I ask. It's just validation because in this space you know it's it's really the first time in many in this lifetime I've allowed all right here is a suggestion okay understand that when you come across the idea of exploring the idea you call blockages look at the exploration of those blockages with the frame of reference of your entire life not just what is happening now or what has just happened in other words you know that What you are exploring now will enable you later on in the project to assimilate and appreciate certain things that perhaps you would not have been able to do had you not explored what you are exploring now. You know this has been true in the past. Allow yourself to know therefore that what you are experiencing now will play a part later. In other words, whatever you are experiencing in your present, know it has application later. If you cannot perceive what application it has now, know that if you view this application in terms of your entire life, you will see how it can apply later. And you would not want to have missed out what you are doing now because it will give you an appreciation later that you will come to understand you needed. You follow me?

**Speaker 19:** So in other words, there aren't any specific steps at this point I need to take to align any further with this group.

**Channel:** It's already follow the pull and continue to follow the pull. That is your symbol of being on the right track which you're never really off of but consciously on the right track.

**Speaker 19:** I know. I mean I'm really getting that that lesson in these last few weeks.

**Channel:** All right. Simply allow it to flow. Allow it to unfold and enjoy the explorations you are having now. It's it's really a [\h__\h] to to deal sometimes with the limitations that we've already prescribed in our mind. And I know and thank I'm really grateful to the lessons that you have given me. And that is that the limitations that I have can just as easily not be there. And I want you to know that it's a direct sharing of your consciousness that has allowed this project to manifest as it has. I feel we allow ourselves to act in service and we thank you for allowing us to do so. For you have given yourself the information by allowing us to serve you as a reflection and as a mirror. We have given you nothing you do not already know. And if I may suggest that if you are going to create the idea in that way of the blockage, then by all means be a creative [\h__\h] [Laughter]

### Topic: Visualization vs. Sensing
**Speaker 20:** Question. Yes. Yes. All right. You then you? Okay. Um for many years in the past uh the fact that when I close my eyes I see basically black as I don't see pictures uh with any color or form except on a very very rare occasion. Really? Yeah. Uh at least from a conscious standpoint. If at one time Let me ask you a question.

**Channel:** Yes. Do you like animals?

**Speaker 20:** Yes, I do.

**Channel:** Do you like horses?

**Speaker 20:** Not a lot.

**Channel:** What do you like?

**Speaker 20:** Dogs.

**Channel:** Dogs? What kind?

**Speaker 20:** Oh, uh, medium to small size. Other than that, I like them all.

**Channel:** Can you picture a dog?

**Speaker 20:** Yeah.

**Channel:** What color?

**Speaker 20:** White.

**Channel:** Now, this is different. When I Yeah. What I'm talking about is closing the eyes and having a a picture. Why is it different?

**Speaker 20:** Because um Well, if you could answer this, you are very creative.

**Channel:** All right. Challenge. Why is it different?

**Speaker 20:** I'm formulating my answer. Okay. I have well I haven't sorted it all out now. Part of this may be oh part of this may be oh allow me to suggest this conversation will not go anywhere until you answer that question. Why is it different? Now I I am while you are thinking about why it is different allowed me to say it really does not matter whether you can image or not. It really makes no difference. Okay. You have your own particular form of manifestation and visualization does not have to be graphically visual in order to accomplish the same ideas.

**Speaker 20:** Okay. Certainly actually I wanted to let you know that I'm not concerned about it. I'm not worried about it. At one time in my past I really was. Now I'm basically interested in knowing more about it. Just All right. But again that does not answer the question. Right. May I ask you another question?

**Channel:** Not before I answer the first question. All right. But allow me to suggest that my question may assist you in answering.

**Speaker 20:** You know, I can talk about this first one for a while if you'll allow me to.

**Channel:** Okay.

**Speaker 20:** Um, I don't know that it is. Oh, thank you very much. I don't know that, but I in a lot of it has to do with the fact that other people have expressed closing their eyes and seeing this visual picture very vividly and stuff like that. So, I I am utilizing that in making my estimation here. But I'm aware that it may not be valid.

**Channel:** Well, it's valid. Of course, for them, yes. Yeah. But it is valid for you if you create it to be so in that way. But of course, it is based upon a judgment of other individuals. That is a judgment of yourself based upon other individuals and what they can do and what you think you should be able to do. So, what's right?

**Speaker 20:** And I'm aware of that. I'm aware what they may be doing may be exactly what I'm doing and I don't know it's the same thing or it may be different and it doesn't matter. And that's what I wanted to find out. Um, not whether it matters or not. I know that. Well, I just wanted some more um you know ways of looking at this thing just for the sake of understanding. Then will you allow us to ask our second question?

**Channel:** Sure. Since I've answered the first question, yes. Did when we said it does not matter whether you can visualize or not make a difference in how you answered.

**Speaker 20:** No, I already knew that.

**Channel:** Did you? Then why did you ask?

**Speaker 20:** Because it was a portion of myself that I was exploring.

**Channel:** All right. whether it mattered is is not of great um you know essence in whether I ask a question that I'm exploring or not. You know something it's a valid idea to explore it. It's also a valid idea to explore something that doesn't matter whether I explore or not.

**Speaker 20:** True. So I was exploring something that didn't really matter but it was interesting to me and I I'm excited by exploring this subject.

**Channel:** Very good. Then what have you found?

**Speaker 20:** Um, not a whole lot from this discussion.

**Channel:** I already know. I already knew and consciously knew just about everything he used reflected back to me. I was um But then you discovered a great deal.

**Speaker 20:** How did I discover I already knew all that stuff and I knew that I knew it. I didn't discover anything.

**Channel:** You created an exploration. By definition, coming up with the idea that you already knew it was what you discovered on this most recent exploration.

**Speaker 20:** Um, well, I'm I'm not sure that I agree with that. I'm not sure that I discovered that I already knew that. I going into it, I knew that I knew that. However, the But in creating an exploration, you create a discovery, even if you already knew it.

**Channel:** Okay, that is why we asked you. Why did you feel the need to ask the question if you already knew it? Why did you feel the need to make an exploration of it?

**Speaker 20:** Well, your question assumes that I felt a need and I didn't feel the need. I felt a desire for what? Why? I was interested. It's just a portion of myself that I was exploring something that I was again exploring.

**Channel:** All right. But understand that when we say knowing, yeah, that precedes the idea of exploring in any form.

**Speaker 20:** Sure.

**Channel:** To create an exploration is to create the question.

**Speaker 20:** Sure. Which is not knowing.

**Channel:** Knowing is knowing. When you created the question, it was not a knowing state.

**Speaker 20:** Okay. So, as far as I'm concerned, we haven't really explored one. I wanted to explore. We've just been talking about the questions of exploring.

**Channel:** What do you want to explore?

**Speaker 20:** I want to know I want to explore the concepts of seeing blackness with the eyes closed versus what others report as seeing vivid pictures with their eyes closed.

**Channel:** Go ahead.

**Speaker 20:** Explore away. I was hoping you would explore it by um verbalizing what I don't.

**Channel:** It is your expedition. You define the terms of the expedition. You are doing the exploring. We are along for the ride. We are tourists. Where's your flower shirt?

**Speaker 20:** All right. I'm not worried about it. I got another question. I want my money back. I didn't find anything on this expedition either.

**Pam:** Me either. Me either. Michelle, I have something about that a little bit. No. Me too. Actually is that my my all right. You may not be someone that actually thinks in terms of visually. Some people are more visually oriented and some people maybe feel things that other people wouldn't see or hear them or something. So you might get something different than the other per which is exciting because then you could share it with the other person and open up new avenues for the other person who's getting who's maybe more visually organized you know with the way they perceive. It's just another choice.

**Speaker 20:** Thank you Pam. Now, why didn't you have said that? I knew it. Um, well, then I didn't know.

**Channel:** Oh, yes. What you and I talked about, I did know. Of course, I did know it. But I didn't have a conscious. Thank you. We told you that. You might if in case you want to explore it. The neur neural linguistic programming that was was mentioned by Pearl over here about you know with age that she was talking about. It deals all with that deals with people who are more visual. Yeah. auditory visual kesthetic feeling and um and it's very interesting.

**Speaker 20:** Yeah, I'm very good at visualizing things but I'm not really good at feeling my visualization. Okay. Well, I will express how I've treated visual visualization for myself. I was a mechanical engineer for 12 years and the essence of mechanical engineering is visualizing and then translating to paper and then to the physical universe. But my visualizations were never of a picture sort.

**Channel:** Then how were you able to perform that job?

**Speaker 20:** Well, the best way that I can describe it is as follows. If I go into a room and I look at everything in the room and I know what it's like in the room, then I turn off the lights, I still have a feel, not really a feel, that's not the best term for it. I have a sense of where everything is. Yikes. It's a different from a feeling, but it's kind of a shade of feeling, if you will. Yikes. And that's the way I I visualize. It's as though I'm standing in a dark pitch black room and I still know where everything is even though I haven't see it.

**Channel:** Then why do you ask me why we felt we did not need to tell Ah, when Pam shared her view with you, it was an exact description of what you then, I'll say, proceeded to describe to us that you already did. What was there for us to say? What you were asking us was for information you already knew intrinsically. In that your particular methodology and definition of quote unquote visualization or sensing or whatever you wish to call it was already secure within you. You are then asking for beyond that a definition which you are going to translate into your sensing terms anyway. And so you will not visualize them no matter how long we rattle on. You are going to take everything we say and render it into your methodology of sensing. Therefore, the idea of describing to you visualization in any other way other than what you already use in that sense is not going to add one iota of knowledge to you. Well, excuse me. Did you understand that idea?

**Speaker 20:** I understood what you said. In other words, you are always choosing how you want to perceive the idea of the physical reality you create. Now, we could sit and talk about the idea of visualization all the time for hours and hours and hours and hours and hours. You are still going to take all of that information and run it through your particular filter which will render it into a translation of the sensing that you are talking about. That is your particular method. Therefore, what is there that we can tell you that would make a difference that you cannot create for yourself first?

**Channel:** I don't know. Very good. The answer is nothing. It is up to you how you wish to see the reality you create. If it is in the form you call sensing, so be it. That is what Pam told you and that is what we already told you. that it does not matter if you visualize in the classical sense. You already have your own methodology and any description of visualization is always going to be rendered into your methodology. To assume that it may be different for different individuals is correct. But you may simply and already have made the simple comparative analogy that you may simply take it for granted that to some individuals visualizing in their minds is almost identical to what you perceive as visualizing with your eyes that you already knew and so we would not be enlightening you any further anyway.

**Speaker 20:** Okay. May I ask you two questions?

**Channel:** Of course. That was the first question. Here's the second question.

**Speaker 20:** Yeah. Um, why do you presume that I that I enter this discussion with concern or worry or that it matters or I don't. I ask it because I'm interested.

**Channel:** All right. Allow me to say that we are not projecting the idea that you are concerned or worried that is within you. We are simply saying that when you create an interest, it is that when we say why not, that is an expression that has to do with the reasons for having created what you create. It is not something to fall back on to avoid the reasons you created the situation. When we say why not that is one type of answer but if you persist in creating an exploration then it is not the answer for that. When you create an exploration you are in the exploration if you are creating questions within it creating a separation from your knowingness. And thus always when you ask a question from that point of view we are going to respond because that is the vibration of the moment to you as if there is a reason for the separation. As we say there is no such thing as being just curious. Your curiosity is never idle and always is created and your explorations and questions are always enacted for specific reasons. Not in that sense to show you nothing, not to show you something you already know. When you create the idea of know. When you create the idea of exploring, as you say, the visualization, it is for you in that sense to explore. We will elucidate where you allow us to in that sense. But since you became more concerned quote unquote with the idea of the nature of the construction of the exploration itself rather than simply realizing that it is all right to create questions all right to create exploration in the manner of separation then you will always be receding from the idea of the expedition itself. We are always going to respond to you when you create a question as if you are coming from a viewpoint of separation because that is the only viewpoint questions are created in and the viewpoint of separation is the viewpoint of the belief of limited self. Therefore, if you are going to create a question and in the very next breath say well there really was no reason for that because I already know the answer then understand there is nothing to tell you.

**Speaker 20:** Well, I understand what you're saying. Uh, however, if I if I ask a question and you give me one answer and I say, "Well, I know that answer. I'm looking for a different answer that I don't know, this is what I was looking for, an answer that you an answer that you didn't give me that I that I didn't know." See what I mean? But maybe that was the only answer that was that was needed.

**Channel:** Yeah. Yeah. Do you think it might be possible that the many times we have said we are not here to provide answers for you but to assist you in knowing your own that that is something you have not yet really realized.

**Speaker 20:** I've totally got that.

**Channel:** Then allow me right now to ask you to activate your imagination. What do you imagine we could have said that would be something you didn't know?

**Speaker 20:** All right, I'll play along. I imagine that you could have said something on a personal nature relating to me.

**Channel:** Be specific.

**Speaker 20:** Yes. What is the actual answer? I'm getting to it. That would uh say you are exploring. This is what you're saying now. you are exploring the idea of not being able to visualize on a um similar to sight basis for the purpose of um exploring u whatever I don't I don't know and uh that um thought you were playing along be specific yes you do know this is one of the ideas you are exploring and this we will tell you that you and know that your imagination can tell you things that you don't know and then find out that you knew them all along. This is one of the ideas you are exploring. How about that?

**Speaker 20:** Okay. Can we go on to the next subject briefly?

**Channel:** Do you realize that that answered your question?

**Speaker 20:** Yes.

**Channel:** Do you realize that there was in this way the need for the I'll say route that the expedition took to get there?

**Speaker 20:** Um I would say that I know that in that it did occur and it's perfect.

**Channel:** Do you sense the idea that what is being explored by you is the dichotomy of knowing what you discover. That there is both discovery and knowing of the discovery before you discover it. Even while you discover it, discovering that you already know it. That discovery in and of itself is simply acknowledgment of what you already know. That is what discovery is. That which you do not know is the realization of that which you do.

**Speaker 20:** Yes, I have been aware of that for quite some time on a philosophical basis. I I not sure that I have known it really practic practically to really totally get that right.

**Channel:** This is what you are using as the symbol of the visualization. this particular exploration. In other words, you create yourself a sensing rather than what you deem to be a visualization. Right? Understand that the sensing is what occurs before any visualizing takes place anyway. And in this way, what you are showing yourself is that if you were to create visualization in the classical sense, you would simply be creating a discovery of the sensing you already do in a different way. You would go through the visualizing back to the understanding that visualizing is only sensing to begin with. In other words, what you are exemplifying is the phrase in your society, first there is a mountain, then there is no mountain, then there is. Do you understand that analogy?

**Speaker 20:** No, I don't.

**Channel:** When you begin the idea of yourself within knowing, you simply look at the idea of nature around you and identify it for what it is, the sensing, the mountain. Then you begin to say, well, what are all the ideas and the components that make up this mountain? Let us break it apart. Let us analyze it. Let us project in all the different ways that this mountain can manifest to us as something other than the idea intrinsically of the basic mountain. In other words, then the creation of the idea of visualization and exploring through that idea, you'd come to discover that when you have explored and picked through and analyzed all the different pieces, you find that the only thing left to do is put them all back together. And then you are left what you began with, the mountain. Mhm. And ultimately you understand that you had the entire understanding to begin with and that the journey and the exploration of picking it apart is simply one more way to discover the idea that you had to begin with and only one more way to understand that you already have it. Therefore, not knowing is simply one more way to discover that you already know everything. And that is the idea of the exploration of being I'll say interested in pursuing visualization. The visualization is only in a sense a more analytical methodology of sensing. You follow me. And we do mean mythology not methodology.

**Speaker 20:** Okay. Very very interesting. Okay. I got that. Thank you. Thank you. One last brief question. All right. Um I have uh put my fingers together in the fashion that the channel has them now. And also with all five fingers touching all five fingers and I um the five fingers touching five gives me some sense of something happening. The three doesn't do anything for me that I can sense. But when I rotate one hand 120 degrees so that I have opposing or non-opposing fingers touching Uh it's dramatically different and interesting. Can you comment on that? It's like a thumb will be touching a forefinger.

**Channel:** All right. First of all, understand that what you were exploring within the idea of the three fingers in that way will be connections in that sense to future self through the idea you call a physicalized mental telepathic connection in that sense. An energy connection of a sort. The idea of the four fingers in that way will be the connection of the emotional self as well. And the connection of all five fingers will be the consciousness connection in that sense. And of course you will always perceive in that way the higher consciousness connection with the five fingers. The idea of exploring the three but rotating them will be because you are more interested in being in touch with alternate selves rather than future selves directly. You follow me?

**Speaker 20:** Yes. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Just one question.

### Topic: Rainbows
**Channel:** All right. There will be a few more of your minutes time left. Proceed.

**Speaker 21:** I'd like to know what's the reason behind rainbows. Reason? Yeah. What? [Laughter] Thank you. How is it a symbology of integration? I got because it has all the colors. Um and uh thank you for has all the colors. Um I'm looking for the word which combine to form what? Why? Which is integr which is the integration. Very good. Now what do you think about that?

**Speaker 21:** Too analytical. I want something real eic. It is a reason. It's pretty.

**Channel:** Yeah, it's pretty. It is inspiring. Is it not?

**Speaker 21:** It's beautiful. A pot of gold can be at the end. Yes. Either way. Yeah. Like on the on the on the pictures like what? All right. People do you understand? Do you understand that a rainbow is actually a complete circle and not just an arc?

**Speaker 21:** No. No. No.

**Channel:** When you view a rainbow from above the surface of your planet, you will understand that what you perceive to be an arc actually continues into a circle.

**Speaker 21:** Broke my no end. Oh yes, there is no end. But also there is no beginning. And you are at the center. You are at the center of the rainbow. Any rainbow means two pots of gold. It means unlimited abundance. Way to go. But I'm serious. What? Like when I mean because one day someone saw it now. Was that like around Atlantis time or or was it long long long long long ago?

**Channel:** There were rainbows before there was anyone around to see them. Oh, but it was recognized by the consciousness that was non-physical at the time. It was now understand the idea follow along. Now you are determining you are determining the definitions here. Why are you making it complicated? You are continuing to change the rules by which you wish to explore yourself. And that is all right. But that is what you are doing. You are asking for reasons and explanations and then continually shifting the foundation out from under all the different reasons and explanations you are getting by changing the rules of the game. Well, you are asking for a phenomena for reasons for a phenomena which occurs within time and then saying but there is no time. This is true. But then why ask for the reasons for a phenomena that occurs within a time track? Not confused too. You are not confused. You are simply enjoying the idea of being confused.

**Speaker 21:** You are enjoying the idea of being confused. I'm not confused, sir. I got it.

**Channel:** Understand that in that sense you are still enjoying the idea of confusion. Confusion. Confusion. Yes. With fusion. You follow me?

**Speaker 21:** No. Putting together. Oh, I was I was putting it together because I cuz when you said that you're you're in reality, so you have time. So don't throw it in the context that you're not in real you're not in a context. There's no time. Greg, it is it is valid from whatever perspective you choose to shift into.

**Speaker 21:** Okay. It just was in my rainbow. There is no such thing as idle curiosity as you created.

**Channel:** Yes. And that is why we said you are creating illusion. One moment. Now understand that in your mythology you say that the rainbow is connected to the idea of the promise of God to not destroy the earth by water again right this will be a new symbology a new mythology that will be as the aftermath of the destruction of Atlantis they then understood that the symbol of the neverending circle circle and the representation of all vibrations within that circle was that if you identify with that reality, the promise is fulfilled. You will not destroy yourselves again.

**Speaker 21:** Yeah, that is the mythological symbol that holds the tightest for your mass consciousness. I thought it was just a childhood just a childhood.

**Channel:** Remove that word. If you were to live your childhood fairy tales, allow me to say there would be no reason for us to communicate with you in this manner. We would be on the surface of your planet right now. For you would be a garden of delights. Yeah. Next time you wonder about rainbows, just talk to the rainbows.

**Speaker 21:** But a good idea. Why are you here?

**Channel:** Be prepared to give an equal answer when the rainbow asks you why you are there.

**Speaker 21:** I'll tell the rainbow I'm here for you.

**Channel:** For you to enjoy. You are there to be reflections to each other. You at the center the rainbow surrounding you. You define for the rainbow the idea that it is a circle by giving it a center to rotate around. The rainbow for you describes and defines you being at the center by giving you a sense of perspective of being around you. In that way, all symbols serve a function and all symbols serve whatever function that will be in accord to whatever perspective you wish to view them from. It is as simple as that. It is always going to be connected both to the last conscious idea and to your own personal enjoyment. Even if your enjoyment is creating just curiosity.

**Speaker 21:** Is there a connection between rainbow and the circles around the planets Saturn and Jupiter?

**Channel:** In a sense, we will let you explore that one. Okay. For now, the idea of time as you count time is coming to an end. until we communicate again. My suggestion, it is up to you is to play for a while in your child's garden and see what delights you bring with you to our next communication. We will thank you as always for the extension of your unconditional love which forms the consciousness that you are and allows us to share this with you. We will say thank you. We will say good night. Good night. Thank you. And he said time is now time is coming to an end. I thought three, two, one. Happy New Year. Thank you. Anybody who'd like a tape of tonight's uh we can have it ready for you within about 10 15 minutes at the most. We have super duper hyper time machine.


