Different Facets


We have said practice time is over. The more you encounter these situations that you understand to be that which you call challenge group is becoming more and more prevalent. 

As you attract yourself to these situations and as you allow yourself to attract the situation and the occurrence to yourself and through yourself because recognize that you are in a sense during what you perceive to be disching in a sense channeling yourself. 

Recognize that as you allow this energy to pass through yourself because you are creating the scenario for yourself in order to experience it as each and every one of you must do because each and every one of you is your own universe and you must create that which you wish to experience within it or yourself of it in order to share the idea with everyone else. It is your own version that you have your own version that you perceive your own idea about what you think the experience should be.

Recognize that we appreciate the opportunity to be allowed by you to act as a reflection in this sense and every channeling that you come across that you attract into your life can be used in this way for many different facets of the crystal that is you understand that the idea of reflection will be different facets of a total idea reflecting two different facets within. You will find yourself transforming yourself throughout these experiences as you do in everyday life. Allow yourself the opportunity to change. Allow yourself the opportunity to allow the situations that you create round about yourself, including any ideas you call channeling in that sense to shift and change as you recognize that the change is occurring within you. When you recognize change occurring outside of yourself, recognize in this way that the timing is such now and progressing further in acceleration of your momentum that allows you to know it is not just a matter anymore of I'll say tinkering with the ideas you are creating for yourself but putting them into action allowing your lives to become active in that Hey, recognize that if you have the conviction of your beliefs, it is something you do not have to think twice about in order to do anything that you have true conviction of. You simply find yourself doing without even thinking about or knowing that you are doing it. You simply do it. You live it. You become it. You are it. You are the event of your life. You are the ideas that you have. You are the ideas that you have. You are the interactions that take place within your physical life. You are always the active principle in your life. Allow yourself at any opportunity that you so desire that your imagination allows you to perceive to feel free utilizing your free will, your self empowerment to be boldly creative and active. acting out anything your imagination gives you as that which you find in your imagination that excites you will always be representative of the path you have chosen to allow to unfold in this physical life feel free to act out that imagination there are no interruptions you are never off the right track every idea when viewed as another opportunity to integrate and discover more and more and more of your own personality, more and more of your own consciousness and to blend all the different levels of your consciousness in all reality. Even to uncreate is that there exists levels in between your consciousness to begin with that you are one consciousness.

The more you will find that your collective as well as individual realities will exhibit that momentum flow, that perfect timing, that sense of integration. As you act yourself out through to yourself, you will be performing service to all that is by being the you that all that is created you to be. an insole being. You will allow every other being to act, as you say, to mesh like clockwork and to allow themselves to exhibit the gift of perfect timing that your society in this way can create for itself. Act and be question you may. But recognize again that if you create questions, it is because you already contain the answers. And the question is only the identification of information within you that you do not believe yourself to be integrated within. It is only that I would say lack of belief that you already contain that information that creates the question that creates the separation from you as the idea of that information itself. Therefore, your questions, creative though they be, allow yourself to know in this way that our service to you is to allow you to know that you already know everything you need to know. You follow me?

Thank you very much, my Schuman friends. Would you want to go around talking to your future self, your higher self, saying, "Hey, you have given yourself the same convenience that you have given yourself in your physical life, that of a form of identification, so that you can in this sense locate yourself within the phenomena of the interchange and the interaction that you are creating within yourself from future to past, from higher to lower. You follow me? It is not unusual in that way. You will find that you will all have created an identification pattern that you call name for your higher and future selves that will be different from your own. It will represent to some degree a vibration which is representative of the overall collection of all the lives you have ever been or will ever be.

***

### Question: What is the name?

Anyway, um it was I stayed up all night.

Thank you for sharing your excursions in and between you and your higher self. recognize that that is one methodology of always knowing you have the answers. Talk to your higher knowing self. It is in that sense beyond the limitation of your analyzation and your emotionality if only feel free to know. You can tap anytime you wish to into that higher source of self. Very good. Thank you very much for the sharing of that experience and thus the expansion of awareness of that much more of all that is that there can be for every being in creation to be able to experience. This is what is meant by the gift of sharing. Follow me. Very good. Are you having good time? Thank you very much. question. Good job. All right. You then you? Hi, how are you tonight? Perfect. How are you? I am wonder. Full of wonder.

***

### Question: Dreams and Symbols (The Big Dipper)

All right. And I have a lot of questions. I instead of starting on some of the like things that I negative, I would like to ask this question. It has nothing to do with I suppose fascination. Anyway, I had a dream the other night and it was a whole series of dreams. Many, many dreams all at once. And I woke up and I thought I had to write these two symbols down because I wanted to speak to the jar about them. Um, one was I was at a party and I was telling somebody that I was going to help them find their friend and the ceiling was painted like the sky and I said, "He's over by the Big Dipper." And then I thought, "Oh my god, the Big Dipper's gone down." Well, this is a ceiling in my dreams. So I thought, "I'll walk you over there." And that just flashed over. And then the next symbol I had was I had like a little card and we have on this planet they're like postcards and they're 3D and if you tilt in certain ways you get another picture underneath that one. So I was looking at it and it was a picture of the sky and as I tilted it I realized then I could see the Big Dipper and I thought wow the Big Dick is there all the time even if it's filled in with stars. they would. And then all of a sudden, I took the the postcard and I brought it up to my face and it was like I was right on a planet that was it was I saw ta like you have it at Mono Lake which is very like stagit come out of the earthag whichever one. And when I was stagmites are from the ceiling, slag mites are from the ground. Thank you for the clarification. Stag mites is what I saw then. So anyway, I would push the thing up to me and I would be just like I was on a planet and then I would pull it away and it was like all of a sudden it would disappear and I would be back in space. Well, I woke up to you at this strange symbol and I wonder if I was really in space traveling.

**Answer:** In a sense, you gave yourself a symbolic representation of an experience that your conscious aware mind could not make sense of. Understand you have also touched upon a very accurate representation of exactly how being consciousness and spacecraft actually travel through space. They do not go anywhere. The space comes to them.

Well, that's why I kept thinking, well, did I go to another planet? Another planet came to you. another planet came to me because I knew that that it had really been I knew that I had experienced another slave and that I as best as I could and I was so proud and really proud that I could remember the symbol you know consciously that I am ready to consciously bring that to my reality. So I just wanted to sort of verify Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

***

### Question: Radio Show and Scientific Community

Um, can I like mineral on here? I took that one. Um, one, I'm working, as you know, on the radio show and I've got another radio show that that we're going to do two radio shows now that we're going to be dealing and I want to express to you my appreciation for the privilege of being able to help um, share your consciousness with people around. I really enjoy that and it excites me.

**Answer:** We will thank you for the opportunity in this way to be a part of your own create new flow and your timing. Okay. So what I thank you very much. Thank you.

Um I want to um I'm thinking about arranging uh channeling strictly for people within the scientific community because you had expressed last week that you that was one of the areas you would like to share in with information and scientific methodology. So, I'm just wondering if you think that would be um feasible at this time with those that have a desire to do so.

**Answer:** Yes. So, we're going to put it out to the general scientific community and whoever responds obviously they have a desire to do so and then there could be a nice interchange. All right. Okay. Extend your senses and see what you create. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Yes.

***

### Question: Fear of Arrest and Past Life Karma (Turkey)

But last week, Carol answered some questions for me which I appreciate and thank you for your answers. Um, I want to elaborate on the question I said I elaborate on the answers. Oh, right. Uh, I I was in prison in Turkey for 5 years and 10 years ago I escaped afterwards the Turkish government had put out a warrant for my arrest. Yeah. Which Philips? Yeah. the situation for me to leave the United States. Um, I feel peril because I could be arrested in another country. Oh, fraud. Back to Turkey and I probably wouldn't uh live very long if I was sent back to Turkey in jail. And uh I want whatever wisdom you can give me on this if indeed I think that that's all the answers. I want to um the break. I feel there's a pair between myself and the Turkish nation. What do they represent? Or have they represented to you beyond your experience?

**Answer:** Energy untempered by wisdom. They're very, very forceful, very energetic people, but they are very... Do you have as we were discussing before of your time recollections within yourself of your own form of I'll say excursions into that also type of emotionality or mentality?

Not specifically but um I can feel that part of me.

**Answer:** All right. Very good. Allow yourself to know that any form in which you choose to allow yourself to integrate this symbol, this experience will be all right. Simply, you are now beginning to realize that you have a very very very strong opportunity to truly come to, as you say, grips with the idea that you are creating your own reality. And that you can allow for transformation to take place within other individuals in a sense when you allow transformation to take place within yourself first before. Recognize again simply very simply you wish to see change in anything change your sense.

Recognize if you wish to look at it this way, every individual and every group of individuals already exist on every level of consciousness that there is. You follow me? It is only a matter of choosing which level you wish to perceive them true. In perceiving them in such and such a manner, recognize that you must be on the same level in order to perceive them as such. You follow me? In this way, if you allow yourself the opportunity to allow the symbol to have served its purpose, past tense, you can then allow it to transform. Any symbol which includes an object, people, relationship, situation, or what have you in physical reality. Any symbol which is allowed allowed to have served its purpose will no longer remain. It will transform into something else according to your own understanding of yourself and your own new viewpoint of yourself. If you choose then to allow yourself to transform in this way, you will be of a different vibration. other than the level that those individuals exist upon wherein they would wish to do you harm because your new understanding of yourself would not include the symbol that you need to have harm done to you. recognize therefore you would be if you did come in contact with them dealing with another facet of them in the same way then that you would be another facet of yourself which did not contain that idea that need of that idea of harm. Therefore, in dealing on that vibratory level with them, you would be experiencing the level of that group which also would find no need in dishing out the harm. as you say.

Now recognize that what this will take of you will you will be a willingness to integrate every experience as valid. the negative and the positive as valid choices that you made in order to experience certain portions of yourself to bring them to the surface so you could recognize them. And thus by accepting them into yourself by allowing that you have fully consciously created them for allowing yourself to grow. You can allow them to serve their purpose. in allowing them to serve their purpose, in making them your own, in taking back responsibility for your fear and not giving it away to them. You can then know, you can know that you may walk anywhere you wish because you are now a different being in a different world, in a different density, in a totally different idea of yourself and thus will only encounter in that world. Other beings who only reflect that idea you hold of yourself. And if those beings do not choose to focus their consciousness on the same level as your own, you will never encounter them. Even though you may walk through the midst of them, they will never perceive you. You follow me so far? Do you understand the concepts we have discussed to this point?

Yes. I feel that my husband in the last 10 years last. Thank you very much.

**Answer:** Now, how in this way also you may transform is to recognize that first and foremost when individuals create the idea that they in fact need to be defended from something they are creating and reinforcing the reality of that which then forms what they must defend themselves against. You follow that? It is very very very very very simple physics, very simple mechanics. Attempting to get rid of anything will always reinforce and make stronger and more prevalent in your life that idea simply because there is nowhere to get rid of anything too. You are it. You are all that is. too. You are it. You are all that is. You are your entire universe. Everything that you create universe. Everything that you create will always remain within it. If you choose to attempt to get rid of something you deem to be negative, too negative to be a part of yourself, you will simply be pushing against it. But because there is nowhere for it to go, it will find its back up against the wall of your reality. And the harder you push, the more energy you will be pushing into it to spring back toward you. You follow me?

Thus you will find that creating to begin with the idea that you need defending will always attract those who are willing to be the attacker. You follow me? Again, very simple mechanic if you choose to look at it that way. Remember in this sense that the I'll say appropriate encapsulization or analogy to this entire principle is the simple statement. You do not get peace by hating war. You get peace by loving hate. That which you hate, you become. You identify with on that level and so perpetuate their existence in your reality. Fighting fire with fire only makes bigger fire. You will find many times that individuals within your society will feel that there are institutions which are oppressive. Be that as it may, in that you have created them upon your planet, you will find that many times these individuals feel they can fight in a sense these oppressive institutions by using the same tactics. institutions by using the same tactics. Many times you will find the individuals you call terrorists will not realize that what they are doing is fighting what they deem to be a raging forest fire that has gotten out of control. But their methodology of fighting it is to throw sticks at it. Believe me, fire loves dicks because it gives the fire more reason to tell everyone that it should remain. Look at these individuals raging out of control. They say we are raging out of control, but they are raging out of control and give us more reason to validate our oppressive existence. Because by only more oppression do we feel we can eliminate their kind. Thus those terrorists are actually the biggest support of those systems that they deem to overthrow because they give it reason for living. You follow me?

In this way you would find that if individuals would become love terrorists They will be able in this sense to recognize their own empowerment. They will take back responsibility for their fear which is the I'll say mechanism that is giving your fear away by which many of what you term on your planet governments were created to begin with. Oh, take my fear for me. I know there is something out there waiting to jump upon me and devour me. Therefore, I will allow you to take responsibility for my fear and protect me. When you take back your fear, you will find that those institutions anywhere upon your planet no longer need to exist. The individuals in that area you call Turkey must be willing to take back responsibility into their own lives for their fear. They must be willing to take responsibility for the creation of all in their lives in this way and recognize that they have chosen at this time yet a great deal of separation from all that is. Separating the self from all that is only allows the self to connect to all they see around them by domination because they do not believe that they already are connected to everything they see around them. They do not believe they are in control. They are feeling very very helpless. Only those who feel very helpless have any need to show off their power. You follow me? Recognize in this way the truly empowered person need not say a thing nor force their opinions nor views upon anyone.

Now we recognize that you recognize all these ideas but emotionally in this way within yourself take them to heart and know that the idea that you are selfmpowered that you have freedom of choice that you are willing to take responsibility for all the symbols and situations and inter relationships that you have created in your life is all serving your purpose to allow yourself to arrive at this point where you can then integrate all of these ideas within yourself in a positive manner. Whereas in many of your past lives, you had expressed much in the same way that the individuals you now revolt against are expressing. This will be your own I'll say final chapter in the sense of your karmic choice of having expressed those negative reactions in past lives and now giving yourself the opportunity to integrate them in this light in such a way that you can within a very short order of time as you count time to exist walk freely anywhere you wish to in the world because you will be creating the type of reality that will be supported only by those facets of individuals who also recog recognize their own empowerment, their own freedom of choice, and the granting of beingness and validity to any other view that they will encounter within the world. Knowing that the product and the result and the foundation of any unity in any way, shape or form that they will experience in the world as a whole or in a country or in an individual will be based upon the granting of validity to all diversity found within it. You follow me?

Now allow me to say at this time in our sensing of your energy we would not tell you but we would recommend or suggest is up to you totally always up to you but we will suggest that you give yourself approximately or at least three more of your months Before you consider the idea of leaving the boundaries of the country that you are in, allow yourself time to digest all these ideas you are integrating within your consciousness because you are doing a great deal of work in your dream consciousness. It will begin and has already begun to I'll say percolate down into your physical reality if only that you can tell by the methodology of exactly where you are attracting yourself to be what types of information you are creating in your reality. In this sense, you will know you are creating the type of path that will result in total integration and therefore total freedom of motion because all events in your life will be seen to be equal across the board and then you will be able to equally and freely choose among them which you prefer to have manifest physically in your life. Give yourself at this point of our sensing of your energy at least 3 months. You may not require any more than six. You certainly at this point will definitely not require any more than one more year.

All right. By all means, thank you very much for the very very and I will underline that 1,587,232 and a half times very creative expression of yourself and of your collective integration in this life which once again allows that much more conscious awareness of that much more of all that is to be experienced by that many more beings upon your planet and your willingness to be of service at this time throughout the transformation that your planet is going through which allows us in this way to blend our consciousness at this time with yours. To us this is a great gift. So there we [Laughter]

***

### Question: New Attendee / Feeling Privileged

hi new here tonight. This is my first time with you and I feel very privileged. Um why? Why?

**Answer:** All right, I'll make you a deal. We will allow you to feel privileged at meeting us if you will allow us to feel just as equally privileged at meeting you. Absolutely. Thank you.

Okay. I have two questions actually. Um the first one I my career of self expression is uh the film industry acting and For whatever reason, I don't know, I have not allowed myself to express myself fully in that area. And I think I'm close to uh letting go of whatever that is. What what you know input can you give me? What can you tell me about that? Great. I asked you a question, please. Thank you very much. Do you recognize that you will never never reach a state of perfection that you will be satisfied with your application?

Uh yes, you do. Yeah, it's been tough, but I I can get that.

**Answer:** It is not necessarily tough. Simply recognize that you are already perfect. in everything that you do and therefore there is no need to achieve that which you already have. Once you begin to allow yourself to let it be all right that everything you do express is a perfect manifestation of that type or level of expression. You will allow each and everything you do to be equal to every other thing you do. And therefore you will not be judging yourselves nor making comparisons of better and worse economy. Yeah. Will this idea allow you to ease into the understanding that you are already expressing yourself exactly as you need to be? And paradoxically, the moment you allow yourself to understand that, your acceleration will increase. You will loosen up. You follow me? Yes. The granting of beingness, the granting of validity to yourself to be exactly What you are at any given moment is what allows you to move to the next moment. You follow me? Yes. Then you will have your sense of progress. Lighten up on yourself. Okay. That is one way of doing it. Laugh. Laughing is centering.

And in this way you will find that you contain a richness of experience as every being does from many different lifetime forms of expression that you can readily identify with once you place yourself at the center of all that you have ever been and all that you will ever be. You are creating your past and your future from your present because the present is the only place you ever exist. You follow me? Yes. Therefore, recognize that your past and your future exist now with you as well. And there is no great gulf or barrier of time and space that you must reach into across the wither eons to retrieve some idea, some mortal, some scrap of altered personality that you can utilize in your trade, in your craft. They are all, you are all right here with you right now. you have become any of all of the multitudinous beings you have ever been. Allow yourself only to feel your connection to all of those ideas, all of those facets of the multiaceted, multi-dimensional crystal that you are to be right here with you right now. Allow it to be, I'll say, a matter of not so much having to change or shift anything other than your perspective. the idea of which passage you look through, which window you look out of. You follow me? Yes. Allow yourself to become those personalities that are already you. You will find such a wealth and richness of a range of expression that you will be, I'll say, reing in an ecstatic explosion of yourself. Follow me. Yes.

What is your other question?

It's about a man in my life right now. Uh I'd like to know what level he and I are are connected, have been connected or loved.

**Answer:** First and foremost, simply recognize the obvious. Whatever you are experiencing now is what you need to know about. Recognize in this way again anyone you are intimately connected with in this life you have been connected with in other lives always you have what are called by us psychic family spiritual families that rotate around each other dance around each other pirouetting from life to life playing different parts for each other acting as different reflections to each other to allow each other the opportunity to experience many of the different facets of each other to integrate them within the physical lives. Keep doing the dance. All that you need to know is always in the present. You follow me? Yes. There is no need to again reach across the ages to exemplify in this way nor form some sort of explanation foundation for that which you are experiencing now as a justification. You have all the information you need to know. Go into the center of your sense. Recognize your own wholeness. And within that wholeness, you will find the portion or I'll say the representation of that individual that you have created for yourself within your reality to represent certain facets of your personality to yourself. And in that and from that point of view, you will understand them very well. You follow me? Yes. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.

***

### Question: Symbolism of the Car (Flex Plate)

Okay, one moment. I'd like to explore a symbol I've created in my life. Um, about 3 months ago, my dad gave me a 67 Ford. So, I skipped the car and I g engine pull the engine out and I bought a new engine for it. The symbol I've created is there's this piece in the car. It's a very obsolete part. It's called a flex plate between the engine and the transmission. And I'm kind of It's broken. the original one is broken and I'm having an incredibly hard time locating that piece to get the car moving. So, the symbol that I see is that the engine can be great, but it's not going to go any place unless it's connected to the transmission, which wasn't the flex, which I can see in kind reflects another way of me not getting out of my easy shift.

**Answer:** Also maybe that you will find more connection between your driving or motivating parts if you allow yourself a little more flexibility in your life. You follow me? Yes. Connections. Connections are always easiest accomplished by allowing yourself more flexibility. Recognize in this way that if you create a situation in your life which does not fit the terms you have given yourself as you define yourself then by all means feel free to redefine yourself. You follow me. Okay. Yes. Thank you. is um in terms of finding a flex place which if LA and all you know all of California recognize that there are individuals within your society even within that which you call your very own city that in this way what you turn to collect and cherish what you turn to be vintage machinery in this sense you will find among them information that you seek For me, many of them will actually have the pieces. A few may be willing to part with them if you identify with them on the same level, your own cherishing of the vintage of that machine. You follow me? In other words, join the club. Then you are entitled to claims benefit. All right. Okay. Thank you. Yes.

***

### Question: Extraterrestrial Encounters and Self-Judgment

I spoke to you uh the beginning of the year about uh my encounters with uh extra dresses. Not you. Anyway, you said that uh what had happened was so that certain things would unfold and things were unfolding really beautifully, right? Until about three and a half maybe four weeks ago and I allowed my some of my past illusions to uh get in the way. And uh what delusions are those?

Just a lot of reimulation of past times together that um together with who? With ules.

**Answer:** Now, how can that idea get in your way?

Well, I sort of had a temper tantrum. of what time? That's it. It was in a this particular occurrence was in a u astral dream and it's like I was called before uh a council and questioned and got very irate and disrespectful.

**Answer:** What did they ask you? That's what I'm trying to remember. That's what I'm asking you. Do you remember what you answered?

No, I woke up this I remembered the uh that all I remembered is that I had really uh you know gotten I rate.

**Answer:** Do you know why?

No.

**Answer:** What is your feeling? What feeling were you left with when you woke up? When I woke up, did you become I raped because you felt that somehow injustice was being done to you or was it for some other reason?

I got I raped because uh it was I felt it was similar to something that has happened 2,000 years ago. I wasn't allowed to uh rejoin them.

**Answer:** Why not?

I hadn't fulfilled. I guess I let my ego get in the way. I didn't fulfill what I was here for according to.

**Answer:** Now, do you understand that they in no way, shape, nor form will ever prevent anyone from joining them? Your own vibration in that sense is what excluded you, right? But not because they said you could not join them. Why did I get mad? What were matters? Okay. Yeah, it's true. Understand again till that it was again judging that increased the level of vibration that would not allow you to judge them. It was that you had chosen separation. Thus, you are not able to join them because you are not of the same vibration. Not that they told you to go away, but that they simply reflected to you the vibration you had chosen in an opposite sense. In other words, they to you stood as an example of the opposite of what you had chosen and you derated yourself. But recognize that they also offered you the opportunity to recognize in the reflection of them that you could have in the very next moment of time as you create time to exist chosen to function within the level of their vibration and join them immediately. It is only your self judgment that kept you that kept you separated. That is what they wanted you to see. You follow, right? It is your self judgment now that does the same thing.

Allow yourself we were doing because you are in this sense recalling and bringing to the senses consciously much of what you have created then so that you can now integrate it without judgment. You still are creating judgment about the island. That many times when you choose separation, it judgment is created within the choosing of separation and judgment is what perpetuates the separation. Right? But I know that uh up until like four or five weeks ago um you know we were planning you know actual physical meeting and uh because of my understand also there is no need to berate yourself because there is a timing involved. Recognize that there is in this way and has been for that period of time and slightly before it, as you would say, a toning down or a slight distinction of activity at this time to allow other individuals that are also a part of this entire endeavor that they are putting together to in a sense catch up. You follow me? You are not being shunned. You are not being put aside. It is simply that others are being waited for. before me. Mhm. It is not something you need to take personally. Oh, your taking it. Yes. Because your past experience created that reaction within you. And this moment, this sensation, this toning down for now of the activity in this type of gathering was an opportunity for you to mirror that back to yourself and bring it to the surface again so that you could integrate it in time. so that you could be a part of the time so that when it came time for the gathering you would then not kick yourself out again. Okay. You follow me? Mhm. Thank you.

***

### Question: Publishing a Book ("The Magic of Children")

Uh I have a question that actually is a combination of questions. It's related to a book that I just finished writing called the magic of children using the magic of creative imagination. All right. And sounds very exciting. And what I want to ask is what do you perceive to be the approach necessary for the publication in the book that I've just written and the manifestation of the project?

**Answer:** Probably you will have to find a publisher.

Yeah, that's true. But uh we are teasing you. Yeah. I I guess this uh involves not only the publisher but the approaching kind of people that are going to be involved.

**Answer:** There is no need to be concerned about that. Those individuals who are of the same vibration as your book will be attracted to you to it. You will be attracted to them by what you term coincidence which is never accidental. Allowing yourself to know that every idea comes complete with all the ingredients necessary to allow it to manifest physically. You can then take it for granted that you have enacted the entire idea and get on with your next project knowing that if you go beyond the immediate present, you will be incorporating that within your scope of containment and that you will be putting out feelers in a sense that will attract those individuals by coincidence to you that need to be attracted and will understand how to in that way enact your book into manifestation. You follow me? Mhm. Again very simple physics. When you perceive that this will happen when you perceive being when you make the change which change the change of perception. Yeah. Understand that when you totally become an idea, when you know that you are the complete idea, when you know that every idea comes complete with all the necessary ingredients for it manifestation. When you take that for granted, there is almost no idea of the nature you are describing that needs any more than what you turn to be 3 days to 3 weeks of your time to manifest the appropriate tools for it to be made physical. Follow me. Therefore, within that time frame, when you make the choice to shift and take it for granted, within that time frame, will you attract an individual or individual who can then assist you in your project? Now, when do you choose to make that change?

Well, I still have already made it, but I probably have probably something in there that I'm not aware of.

**Answer:** Do you realize that the only thing that makes that true is that you said there is probably something that I'm not aware of that would make that not happen. In other words, the block is the creation of the block itself. There is no other block other than the idea that you may have a block. You follow me? That is true. Then allow yourself and allow your energy to shift in this way and get on with your next project.

I've been I've been with this project since 1966 and I' I've just always been wondering why I've been involved in this project.

**Answer:** Does it not excite you?

Well, it does. Yeah.

**Answer:** But what else excites you?

Um, this is a major excitement for me usually.

**Answer:** All right. Then that is why you are involved with it. Is that a surprise?

No, it's not a surprise. But it just seems that I could be also excited with other projects.

**Answer:** Does not matter what you could be excited with. Your life is patterned after what you are excited about. That's true. Excitement is the physical translation of the vibration that represents you being on consciously aware being on the path that represents the purpose you have chosen to be physical follower. That is why we say when you get excited about something act it out follow it. Do it. Be it. You do not have ideas. You are ideas. Follow me. Mhm. Thank you. Tonight, very good.

***

### Question: Sadness, Anger, and Psychic Family

Um, one of the feelings when you use the wording family. I felt so sad. I feeling so sad. Oh my. Yes. I've been experienced a lot of longing and hate. My my real family is here. Yes, she brings up a lot of anger.

**Answer:** One moment, please. You allow yourself to bring up anger within your own reality. She does not bring anger to you.

I experience a lot. I have experienced this part of myself that still very angry and wants to separate.

**Answer:** It is not anger. It is something else. Again, understand that what you turn to be natural anger never lasts any more than 10 to 15 seconds. Anger, true natural anger is an aligning process. It aligns you with your belief structure. Shows you your clear path. Shows you what you know yourself to be all about. It maintains your integrity. Beyond that time frame, it becomes broken down into hate, rage, jealousy, frustration, and judgment, which is the root of all of those self judgment. And the projection of that judgment onto other people to make them seemingly judge you. Now, how does that feel?

Yes, I know.

**Answer:** All right. Now, first of all, understand another thing. If you will, and if you will allow us in this way to point out that longing and sadness within longing indicates that you believe there is somehow a separation between what you deem yourself to be and any other idea that you call psychic family that may exist. There is no separation. You choose to create a separation again because judgment and separation go hand in hand. Can you elaborate a little bit more such as you have to have an object in which it says? Yes. Therefore, you become separated from the action itself. In other words, there is an observer and an observed that is created when you separate yourself from being the observation. You, you, the real you, if I may use that term quote unquote, the real you is the observation itself. When you split or separate or form the idea of polarity within your physical reality, then you choose to view yourself as an observer observing an observed thing, a subject and an object. But the real you is the blending of the observer and the observed. It is the observation. You are the actual interactions. You are the relationship. You are the act of the relationship. themselves. That is why we say you are the event of your life, not the static observation. You follow me? You are the event. You are the active principle in your life. That is what you are. Understand in this way that you have your own version of that interaction and anyone you interact with has their own version and they are two separate versions. They are two different universes. You follow me?

Yes, I've been experiencing that. That's part of my question tonight. The questions that accompany are about that how those two separate versions can exist simultaneously around the same event.

**Answer:** Because there is no such thing as only one perspective, one path. The idea in and of itself, as we said, is that unity exists and is possible when there is granting of validity to all diversity within creation. You follow me? We know it is in your viewpoint paradoxical, but that is the nature of physical reality, the creation of paradox. But understand there really is no dichotomy. There really is no inability for seemingly paradoxical situations or statements to coexist. They obviously coexist in the same reality. Thus, they obviously coexist and on some level of your consciousness do find a blending point. Since they both are projections coming from you, you are the center. That is one of the reasons for the creation of polarity. So that you can recognize yourself at the center of the situation. That is the observer. The observed the center is the observation which is what you are. You are the active principle in this way. Any blending that you wish to take place will occur when you grant complete and total validity to all diversity and variations in viewpoint within creation. and recognize that you are creating for yourself all the different reflections of all the different facets that you also are because you are all that is.

I am that is a lot. Nope. No, it is everything and so what? Um well I find sometimes it's it's really uh there are some parts that are very difficult to integrate into all right but again understand you are never expressing pieces of a greater hole. Every idea is in of itself its own complete 100% idea creation. It is not that you are saying oh I have 60% of the puzzle. The idea of what you have is 100% of the idea of having 60% of something else. It is complete. It is equal to knowing you also have 100%. And it is up to you to determine which you prefer to experience.

Well, I I want to experience 100%. I want to come from a totally active place in my life and not then recognize that you are right now. What you are doing and what you are saying right now is 100% of what you are doing and what you are saying. It is that complete idea that you are expressing. You are expressing 100% that you want to do something else. Rather than express 100% that you want to do something else, simply 100% do that something else.

Well, I don't want to say I'm trying, but that's what I experienced is this because you are doing 100% trying. Have you ever in your understanding of this terminology experienced the idea of being knowing 100% connected? ever, even for the slightest second. All right. Now, what makes that second so different from this one and this one and this one and this one and this one? Why do you prefer to choose in the next second something other than that connection? It is your choice. Why do you prefer to choose something other than that if that is not what you want?

I don't know.

**Answer:** This is your big mystery and it is the creation of mystery itself which is what keeps you from saying I know and allows you to say I don't know. There is no mystery. There is no mystery. There is no separation. There is no need for judgment. It is only the judgment that allows you to say I don't know simply because you choose to say I don't know. That is what you choose to believe that you do not know. I know. I know. It is all right. Also, and here is the quote unquote secret to know that it is all right sometimes to not know. That is the point. You are assuming too much of your putting expectations upon your reality. That is judgment. And that is what keeps you separated by assuming that at every point you have a specific way in which you must know. I must be this incredible godlike figure every moment of time. Exuding wisdom in order for everyone to know that I know what I know. My faith you follow me. This is an exaggeration but it will do for the idea simply that the one who knows who truly knows knows that it is all right from time to time to not know and it is all right. And then you find that when you allow yourself from time to time to know what is all right to not know, you automatically know what you need to know. Follow that. All right. Have it again. Thank you. I always say the major portion of dough is now in. All right. Very good. It is all how you choose to look at it. Okay. All right. One moment. Go ahead. Turn off your Okay. Question. One moment. Okay. Then you I've had a lot of energetic changes. in my body. Question and also a lot of my dream.

***

### Question: Pregnancy, Smoking, and Headaches

Yes. really working. Yes. Now understand again that many times individuals upon your planet will put expectations upon what they think they need to remember as the dream in order to feel that they have gotten anything out of it. That is not always so. You are doing much in your dream reality. Everyone always does. You do not have to create physiological outeraware consciousness symbols to feel that you are doing something. Many times you may understand that when you allow your dream reality and your physical reality to blend and you begin to live your dream, you never really wake up in that sense until there is no dream to remember because you are still dreaming. Follow me.

Even my body.

**Answer:** Yes. Can you tell me about where she's headed? I know that have something that I will know. There is no good and bad. Valid perhaps not valid perhaps. Understand again condalini is something you always are. If only it may channel through you in different ways but you always perpetuate that vibration within you. It is a sustaining force. It is existent in a sense itself. You will always manifest it in some form. Now may I ask you a question? Have you had already conscious recollection of conversation with the being that you determined you are going to give physical birth to? What have you discussed? [Music] I feel that. Yes. What are the feelings? Not in words necessarily, but what are the feelings? You can translate in terms of what was exchanged. I I felt that I'm giving you a cup of Not a war. Why? Why? And I have very good. Nice. If it is in your terms a he, are you going to call me Deon? If it is a she the same name. Would you in this way consider Devon Thomas? Thomas is a vibration that represents more of the being called self. You follow me? It is up to you. He will not dare. But simply, if one is allowed, advanced notice, might as well make the message what one wishes. Devon Thomas will be a vibration that will be in accord to the being's consciousness, and you will know that this being will already know in a sense the purposes for which he has chosen to be born. There will be abilities of this being in the physical light to be very very very actively involved in the transformation taking place upon your planet. As we perceive the energy of your planet at this time and the mass consciousness, the vibration of the term Devon Thomas will be one which will in a sense be known by many individuals. Now do not mean to swell your ego with parental pride. This is not our purpose. simply that we also give you advanced notice that this child will be very aware of the agreement he has made with you. All right. He will expect you to live up to it. But you are doing fine. All right. Oh, no. Thank you. All right. Thank you.

Um I have a question. A couple questions about my physical body. Okay. I'm pregnant and I smoke cigarettes and I was wondering am I doing harm to my baby and to myself in a sense?

**Answer:** Yes. Because that is your belief structure and a concurrent belief structure of the consciousness that will come in in that. All right. The idea is that it concerns you in this sense. Allow me to ask you why do you feel you need to do that? Okay. Uh that is up to you. There is no right and wrong. It is up to you. But this is your opportunity to be in communication with that consciousness that is not yet born. Understand that that consciousness in the form you would recognize as the soul consciousness will not be entering the physical body until just prior to birth as is the case in every birth. So you have an opportunity to discuss this while in a sense the body is being formed. There can be belief structures that will on the part and they do exist on the part of the consciousness yet to be born that will not negatively affect the body because it does require of that body many things. But understand if you continue in this way, one of the other ideas that this individual will take upon itself will be to enact out some physical weakness in its life so as to remind you of your belief. Most probably it will be what you term to be asthma.

God, I would suddenly have asthma already.

**Answer:** Then understand you have an opportunity in this way to change your beliefs. But I smoke with my son. This is still being exemplified. It is still of the same energy. You are simply using the smoking to remind you of the type of symbol you are forming for yourself. You have physicalized it in that way. Smoking is not really something you need. It is only a symbol that you created to know what type of energy you are in this way communicating to yourself. It is an opportunity to bring it to conscious revelation for yourself and an opportunity to now allow the symbol to transform that energy was there. Now do not blame yourself. There is no need for guilt in this way. Your son in his higher conscious self does not blame you for having the asthma. Understand in this sense it is simply an opportunity that you have all agreed upon to allow you now to recognize that the being coming through would prefer not to have that as well because it will in some senses have to then allow for shifting in the timing so it can do what it's supposed to be visible for. Okay. Thank you.

Also, um do you know if I'm carrying the roller?

**Answer:** At this time our perception is female.

Okay. Um one other thing about pregnancy and problems as far as like holding water. Can you tell me why woman with cold water splatter during pregnancy and what you can do to get rid of it? You know the puffiness in the face.

**Answer:** Allow yourself simply to know first of all it does serve a purpose in supplying yourselves with needed nourishment and the cells of the newborn. But understand you can allow yourself to feel you are radiating an energy a glowing energy of health in the sense that will allow some of that water to transform into another rarified state in an astral sense and allow itself to project from you in a way that you maintain a balance of this retention rather than an overflowing. Very good.

One other thing. Okay. I do tend to get very bad headaches headaches and they last sometimes up to four days and nothing I can do can stop it. Can you tell me why I would get these and if I can do something without taking a drug?

**Answer:** Stop taking drugs. Right. I I don't I I'll Okay. All right. You feel that part of the reason? You are constricting your vessels, your blood vessels. You follow me? You are raising your blood pressure. This will cause the pounding in your head. You are taking drugs. That is why you are having the headache. That's right. Thank you. Thank you.

***

### Question: Linear vs. Circular Approach / Finding Things

All right. You may royal question. Last week we talked about my linear approach to uh things. Yes. And uh it occurred to me that uh in that way my relationship with you has also followed that line. Of course such such that uh when you said uh what did you say we had reached the point in the conversation that was uh some sort of point uh which signified that let me rephrase here it became clear to me that uh I had not opened myself up fully to you on some higher level uh up until that point and then at that point I opened some door Right. Is that true?

**Answer:** Yes.

That's why all these weeks that I've been here, I knew that you weren't tuning into me and I thought that what you were doing, but of course it's something that I created and I finally got that. Thank you very much for that. So you was a co-creation. We were tuning into the you you were willing to be at that point. Okay. Next question. Um I'm a finder. I I can find things. I used the little screws, you know, in shack carpets and I've been doing this for many years. Huh. And um I I've been uh finding um smaller and smaller things in bigger and bigger spaces with more and more hiding space. And I just kind of I look for a while and I just kind of go right through it. And um it occurred to me this week that I've been preparing myself for something or I have a grander purpose in this than just being able to find a little taste that. Would you comment on that?

**Answer:** You are by analogy allowing yourself to make a connection in a circular rather than linear way. In the sense that you will understand that by the definition you call powers of 10. That when you find the smallest possible thing you can in the biggest possible space there is. You will find that you do not know whether you are completely at one end or the other of the micro or macrocosm. pony. Yes. In this way, you will describe a circular methodology that supports your linear approach. Follow me. I understand what you're saying. I I would like to only that all of your linear approaches can be seen in your higher consciousness to still contain the same. In a sense, collective circular connection that everyone else's approach does. Sort of like if you're on a very very large circle, any segment looks straight linear. Then you find it circle around the other side. And you are on the same circular path that represents the agreement of the entire mass consciousness for what you are choosing to do within it. Oh, that's interesting. At the same time that one looks for a very tiny object in large space when it's also looking at that very large space in very fashion. One more question.

***

### Question: Movie Script and Excitement

Uh, I have a a feature motion picture script that uh is currently close to being funded and um I'm in a pattern now where every once in a while, every few days or so, I get excited to either call my agent or call the uh the production company and see how things are going and I pull track things to me such as other funding sources and stuff like that. So, I am operating by moments of excitement. All right. Uh, I'm also operating that I've already this this thing is already completed. It's already going to um be completed and I don't really have to worry about it. But since things come my way and I get excitement, I go ahead and do that. Yeah. Uh, can you uh comment on um on what um what's going to happen today?

**Answer:** You have not really left me much to comment on.

Okay. All right. I just yeah it just it feels very right and I I feel like it's going to actually happen. So it doesn't matter. What would I have to say have anything to do with what your reality is all about? Uh I guess if I were looking for anything from you would be suggestion on um what else to do if there's anything even left to do other than what I'm doing.

**Answer:** There's nothing else when I'm doing you. Next question. Shark. Yes. Because the subject of of um excitement and following your heart is so fascinating, so wonderful. I I would just like you to comment or talk a bit more about that. Thank you.

**Answer:** Now again there really is no need to to complex thank you this particular subject understand in this way that as we said first and foremost that which you call excitement is the physical translation of the vibration that does represent the path you have chosen to be physical forward. In this way you can know that your imagination when you can use it as a barometer to find that which excites you is functioning is being allowed to function as what it is. That is the link between your physical and dream realities. It is the translation device that allows there to be the manifestation of your dream reality into physical reality which is what you always do anyway. But now you can realize how to do it consciously. You follow me? Yes. In this way, by allowing your imagination to function, by going across the entire scale of all probabilities, all possibilities within yourself in that way and allowing your excitement to be the register mark of what your imagination is most apt to translate as that will represent the vibration most in accord to what you need to unfold at that moment. You will always be following your own flow. You will always be in step. You will always be consciously aware of your own accelerated momentum. You follow me? In this way, you can follow your excitement to fall to your imagination to allow your imagination to function in such a manner that you can allow there to be the blending of your dream and physical reality so that you may very shortly not be able to tell the difference between them. That is one of the ideas of fourth density existence is that you will become your conscious dreams. You will understand that there will be very little separation between what you now consider to be unreal and real in that sense. But it all will be real. Understand in this way simply that we may make that definition. The idea of imagination is totally real. Fantasy is also totally real. But fantasy is simply that portion of your imagination that does not necessarily have direct applications to the purpose of chosen this is life for follow me. It may represent alternate cells, other dimensional cells, past lives, future lines. You follow me? It may represent alternate forms of expression that you are doing concurrently in this way and really are doing concurrently because you are all that is. You contain all probabilities and all possibilities will be enacted out of some level of your consciousness and some level of your existence. In this way simply the excitement for you will always be the barometer that you will be able to understand the manifestation that this particular light is for. You will be able to follow your own track. Follow your own needle. Watch in which way it points. Will that do? Thank you.

***

### Question: Lack of Excitement / Knowing vs. Belief

One moment. Where's our address over here? I don't know. I don't know. Not quick enough. Go ahead. Okay. has something I will tell you. That's just it. Within the past month or so, I haven't been feeling excited about anything until it's like I kind of going through life.

**Answer:** Yes. Very good. Now allow to say one more thing about excitement in this way. Recognize that there is no need to create excitement to know you are on the right track. Recognize that knowing precedes belief which precedes emotionality which precedes thought. And in this way, many times if you're simply coming from an area, a position, a viewpoint, a perspective of knowing, we do not need to create excitement to remind you of which way to go. You follow me. Excitement like anything else as a physiological reaction. Like anything, physical is a tool, a symbol, and in a sense a step removed from actual knowing. Actual knowing allows you to simply know without the need to create those symbols. You just keep creating. You can be within joy, within serenity, within peace. You can be excited from time to time. But there is no need to create excitement in order to create reality. It is simply one more way to let yourself know what direction is the direction for you. But if you already know that, then there is no need for that to control the comfort away. actually been living because I felt that I shouldn't have been but you are but in a knowing way you know I felt like there's not a limit of going the other thing I would ask about has to do with um the um the individuals who are here and who will be arriving and alive now transformation to be here for um transition and so on. Um I have a a curiosity about that whether whenever the uh transformation occurs if those individuals will be going back to their where they came from.

**Answer:** Not necessarily immediately right on time as about the time of the moving out of the flow of that thousand years. A thousand of your years will represent in a sense the first phase of the next cycle after your transformation in which you will have what is going to be a unified society. So there will be individuals who will be here. Of Of course will be Oh, one moment.

***

### Question: Creating Vision Conditions / Disparaging Off

I've been sorting out a lot of what I was going to ask you while you were talking with Christina there. I'm finding out that I'm not really able to articulate exactly what it is I'm trying to look at, but it has to do with the patterns of creating a vision condition that I would like to exist and then periodically disparaging off of the condition. Not all right. Thank you. Stop.

**Answer:** Well, I have a suggestion for you. Do something else. Do something else. Drop that idea for now. Drop it completely. Become something else. Go and do something else. Anything else? Find something else that excites you. Go and do that. Enjoy it. Let yourself let this idea completely go. Take the tension off completely. Drop it. It no longer exists. You will not lose track of it. It will not lose track of you. But for now, let it go.