---
heading: Part 1
title: "Abundance Evolving Times"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1991-06-14
icon: Bashar
weight: 1137
showdate: true
tags: ['']
---



### The Struggle with Abundance

Abundance seems to be an issue that absorbs much of your attention lately and has seem to absorb much of your attention for quite some time as you count by. Let us address the notions of abundance so that you can understand that attracting abundance into your life is quite a simple matter and does not have to be in any way, shape or form the struggle or the effort that you have created it to be.

Many have been told that abundance is certain things and that is not other things. Many have become wrapped up in the definitions that create either abundance definitions that create either abundance or an apparent lack of it. Allows to address the notion and make very very clear your understanding that it is only only only only your definitions of abundance that prevent you from experiencing it in your lives.

There is absolutely nothing inherent in the idea of abundance or the experience of abundance in and of itself that is difficult to attain. Only your definitions of abundance make it seem to be beyond your reach. Remember, as many of you are now beginning to understand, each and every one of you are actually literally the creators of your experiential physical reality. No more do you feel or do you believe in general that you are simply at the mercy of the universe that you are lost within some vast dimension that you are the victim of infinite uncaring space. Now you are beginning to understand both sociologically, metaphysically and scientifically that each and every one of you individually and all of you together collectively have everything to do with the reality that you experience. You are completely responsible for your experiential physical reality. And you are beginning to understand this now from many different points of view, not just what you may have in the past called the fringe element.

This is now creeping into your mainstream scientific and physics understanding that you cannot have an experience without in some way, shape or form affecting that experience, creating that experience being absolutely inseparable from that experience that seems to be underlying that word seems to be outside of you.

Therefore, when you talk about the idea of abundance or any other aspect of your life, you must understand that the definitions that you have created and that you have been brought to believe in, that you have been taught for thousands and thousands and thousands of years, the definitions that say abundance is something beyond you, something outside of you, something separate from you, something unattainable. All of these definitions of segregation, all of these definitions of separation are what create the apparent concrete reality of lack of abundance or lack of this or lack of that in your lives. But you have been playing this separation game. You have been playing this forgetful game for many thousands and thousands and thousands of years. You have gotten very good at it. very good at it. You excel at limitation and separation and as such very often we have remarked and we do not in any way, shape or form mean this unkindly. We have labeled you or nicknamed you the masters of limitation.

Understand that this in a sense is quite a blessing because you have experienced just about every way, shape, and form it is possible to experience limitation. And this means that you are strong beings. That you have played the game out almost all the way now. That you have been willing to do it all to explore that aspect of creation of the infinite all that is. And it is something to explore. It is a valid part of creation just as valid as anything else you could have done or will do. So do not in any way, shape or form first of all judge yourselves to be any less than anyone else, any other civilization, any other dimension. Do not in any way, shape, or form devalue the experience that you have had of limitation and separation because it is one of the ways that all that is can be experienced. And it has only acted to strengthen you to allow you to grow and add to your soul experience in unique ways that are not experienced in other dimensions of reality. So, first and foremost, pat yourself on the back and give yourselves a hearty congratulations for having done that. But it took great strength to know that you could experience such a reality. 

And now that you have been doing it for many thousands of years, you are truly almost at the end of that particular game of consciousness. And that's why that's why now in recent time you have begun to explore these concepts of expanded consciousness because you are remembering instead of forgetting. you are awakening instead of being asleep because there are almost no more games of limitation to play. You're running out and so you have to look around for out and so you have to look around for something else to do. And after you're done with segregation, the only thing left is integration. You have to work the other side of the polarity street, so to speak. So now you are beginning to find yourself curious and attracted to the concepts that you are more than just the body. That your consciousness is something more than just the brain and the mind and the mentality that your old science that hereto for allowed you to believe was true. And as you remember more and more and more of yourself, as you gather back to you more and more of yourself, as you reconnect, as you reenter, as you reintegrate, you begin to question all the old ideas, all the old beliefs, all the old limitations. And this also makes for a very exciting time. You begin to redefine and re-evaluate the concepts that you have been taught. And you begin to say, well, wait a minute. Does it really have to be that hard? Does it really have to be that difficult? Do we really have to suffer? 

Do we really have to struggle in order to know that we deserve happiness? No, you happiness? No, you don't. That is the simple answer. But now that you have experienced so many thousands of years of the habits and the patterns of being locked into limitation and negativity, sometimes the methodology for allowing yourself to know that the answer is simple can be quite complex. So many of you are so used to going through processes, taking a step at a time, step by step by step by step, climbing up that ladder, rung at a time, that now you find it very difficult to allow things to be that simple. So this is the great paradox of your time and age, the great paradox of your reality and your exploration. Now, how to allow yourself, not make yourself, not force yourself, not try, but how to allow yourself to let life be simple. How to relax back into your natural state of grave.

Because remember this very importantly, let this sink in and turn the key in the lock in your consciousness. Remember this. Any pain, any resistance, any struggle, any difficulty, any at all that you have ever experienced in your life comes from resistance to your natural self. Because you have been taught that what you feel, what you dream, what you imagine, what excites you, what gives you joy, what gives you passion is funk, is childish, is not reality, is not the way the real world works. Oh, grow up. That's a childish dream. That's silly. That's stupid. That'll never come true. That's too good to be true. Oh, you can't get it by wishing. Oh, you can't have that. Oh, you don't deserve that. Have you worked hard enough? Have you earned it? No pain, no gain. Over and over and over again, we hear you reinforcing the idea that you must suffer in order to have a worthwhile life. Now we are not saying that you will have no challenge. We are not saying that you will have no mystery with openness with positive vulnerability with integrity. None of you needs nor deserves to struggle or suffer in order to earn anything. You already deserve everything just because you exist. You did not have to do anything special in order to be created. You exist. Poke yourself. You exist. Question yourself. Am I here? Yes. I guess I must be. I'm asking the question. Who else will be asking the question? Therefore, I exist. You have said it many ways, many times in your literature. I think, therefore, I am. And so on and so on and so on and so on. The idea is to recognize the fundamental truth behind that statement. I am all that is if infinite creation is what you choose to call God. God is all that is. If that infinite creator believe you deserve it to exist, why question that? Why argue with that? Yes, here I am. Obviously, the creator feels that I deserve to exist, but I don't think so. It's your right and your ability to argue with that because you have free will. But why? Why do it? You don't have the need or the reason to do that anymore. When you are playing the limitation game, all right, that was the rules end. But not now. Now you are remembering that you are an aspect of the infinite, that it is all you, that you are it, that it is all within you, you have it all. So the concept of abundance in any form in which you desire it in your life is not about having to go get it. Having to reach out there and someday work toward having that out there somewhere. I don't know where. I can't see it yet. Someday. No, it's about remembering that you are already abundant. And in truly remembering, and I'll tell you what I mean by remembering in a minute, by truly remembering that you are abundant. That's when you start acting like you're abundant. And that's when you start vibrating like you're abundant. And that's when you start having the physical reality that is reflective of the abundance you say you are. As long as you think someday, someday, someday, I'll be abundant. Your reality says, "All right, someday, someday, someday." Here's the reflection that you're putting out. Someday, someday, someday, just out of reach, just out of grasp. Your reality, the universe, all of creation always, always supports you always, always supports you 100%. The universe has never not supported you, not even for a nancond. You have always been absolutely 100% supported.

But what you must understand and what you must get in touch with is what it is that you are telling the universe to support you in beliefs. Definitions, unconscious beliefs, unconscious definitions that you have bought into that you buy more strongly than something else. The ones that you believe most strongly. And sometimes what that means is the ones that you fear most strongly might be true because the universe will always key on your strongest feeling, your strongest emotion. And if you have fear that is stronger than your passion, the universe has no choice but to give you the reflection of the reality that says, "Here's your strongest vibration." The vibration of I don't quite have it and I'm afraid I never will. That's what you get reinforced.

### The Three Absolutes
Now listen, one of the things that you have created in your reality when playing the game of segregation and limitation are big giant thick rule books, laws. Thou shalt not this, that, and several thousand other things. There are in existence three laws, three absolutes. That's it. One, two, three. You don't even know the whole hand to count them on. Just three fingers. One, two, three. Not 10. No. Not 100. No. Not a thousand. No, certainly you have your own social No, certainly you have your own social laws, but all of these are simply for your convenience when you are not functioning convenience when you are not functioning within the center of yourself to allow you not to bump into each other in a sense, not to run into each other in a sense, not to cross each other in a sense. But when you are acting with full integrity, you will not need these. Your automatic positive synchronicity will allow everything to occur in the proper place in the proper timing automatically. Everything that is a law, everything that you understand as a law can all be rendered down to the three absolutes. And that is really all you really need to understand.

The first absolute, you exist. That is true for everything. It is the one thing common for every being, every dimension, every level of reality.

The second thing that is common for every being, everywhere, everywhere, the second absolute, the one is all, the all is absolute, the one is all, the all is one. That's the second absolute. And there's only one more. And that's it. The totality of the laws of existence. You exist. One is all always one.

And the third, what you put out is what you get back. That's it. Every single experience you have ever had, every experience you're having now and every experience you could possibly ever have in creation will always be based on those three absolutes. That's it. Everything else is, as you say in your colloquial language, your ball game. It's up to you. How you want to manifest those three absolutes is up to you. Whether you want to do it negatively, whether you want to do it positively, whether you want to do it slow, whether you want to do it fast, it's up to you. That's your free will. Totally up to you. You are free, absolutely free to create any reality you so desire. Now obviously since we are speaking through a channel on your planet to you on earth we will assume I think quite safely that you obviously chose to be on earth at this time and therefore you chose to some degree to some degree to abide by the so-called rules that define a typical earth experience. So when we say you can create any reality you desire, this is true. The idea is however you may find that it is not necessary to manifest yourself on earth to be a 13t tall blue being with 12 arms. You can do it. But you may find that you have no reason to do it. It is a real reality. But you may also find that when you chose to abide by the urgent game, you also chose to fall in line with some automatic ideas that would allow you to automatically play the game without having to think about it. And so, while it is possible to do anything at all, you may find that there is some resistance in the direction of doing something that doesn't immediately find direct application in your Earth vibration generally.

However, here's where you are truly free and truly released. The things in life that excite you the most individually can absolutely be attained individually can absolutely be attained absolutely be attained by you in your life on earth if it is a true representation of the true excitement that represents your true centered self, your highest self. It can be created no matter how ridiculous some other person may think it is. No matter how silly you may have been taught to believe it is yourself, if it is your true wish and your true dream, you can attain it.

### The Definition of Excitement

And I'll tell you why. And this will come back around to the concept of abundance. But let's begin with a more fundamental concept that leads directly into abundance of every form, and that's excitement. Excitement. Now, some of you have heard us talk about this concept, but listen, this will always be a new experience, and we have many new things to say about it. Excitement. All right. What is excitement? What is it? Well, it's feeling. It's good. I I jump up and down. I'm having a good time. Well, yes. All right. But it is something more than right. But it is something more than that. And it is something more than that. Let us, if we may, share with you our Let us, if we may, share with you our definition of excitement. Are you paying attention? All right. All right. Just checking. Excitement. Excitement. Stop. The physical translation. the physical translation of the vibrational energy that represents your true self. Oh, can I hear that one more time? All right. Excitement is that feeling is right. Excitement is that feeling is your physical translation of the vibrational energy that represents your true self.

Oh, you mean what excites me? Excites me because that's the thing I really ought to be doing. Yes. Many of you we hear you calling, "What is my purpose in life? Why am I here on earth? What is my mission? We hear you calling. You have been doing it for a long time. When you ask these things, you become so focused on wanting to know the answer that very often when something exciting comes along and taps you on the shoulder, you say, "Go away. Don't bother me. I can't pay attention to that now. I am looking for my purpose in life. This is a serious mad. Roll away. I have no time for fun. I am trying to bind my mission. mission. Excitement.

Now, excitement doesn't mean that you have to experience it. That's the energy that makes you jump up and down and yell and scream all the time. Excitement can also be translated simply as that balanced sense of knowing peace. That is also one way to manifest a vibration you call excitement. And understand something else very important about that vibration. When you follow it with trust, you call the energy excitement. When you doubt the energy, it's called anxiety. Same energy. It's the same thing. But when you doubt yourself, your true dream, your true passion, I'm nervous. I'm anxious. I'm afraid. But when you trust yourself, you're excited. You're free. You're creative. You're clear. You're intuitive. You're inspired. Same energy. of the polarity manifestation.

So understand that when you know you have something whether in the moment or a lifespanning career doesn't matter which when you have something that really moves you something that really excites you something that gives you passion following that is fulfilling your purpose is fulfilling your mission at that moment. because it is the unairring compass needle magnetically pointing you in the direction of your path. That's what excitement is for. It's the sign you all ask for. Give me a sign. What is my purpose? What is my mission? Oh, I'm excited about that. That's your sign. It's the vibration. It's a direct communication from all that is. You are touched. Understand the original meaning of that word touched by God. Excitement is the touch. Get used to it. You're going to be experiencing more of it. Learn to love that touch. Learn to follow that touch. Excitement is who you are. It's your highest vibration. It's you unconditionally loving yourself. That's what excitement is.

### Following the Thread of Excitement

You are reincarnational being. 

You have many lives. 

But the you you are right now only has one life to live. You're only going to be this you once and that's it. Therefore, the fundamental purpose of your life is to live this life. To be this you as fully as you can. That's your purpose. How do you do that? By following the thing that excites this you the most at any given moment.

Some of you may find that when you follow your excitement, it will lead you in one direction, but all of a sudden it will change direction. Oh, what direction. Oh, what happened? 

I thought I was excited about this. Now I'm excited about that. Now I'm excited about this. What's wrong with me? I can't stay focused. Or it is true that you can divert yourself from your path. In a sense, in a sense, you can divert your attention from your path through denial. It is true. You could be avoiding issues that you don't want to look at out of fear. It is true. However, if you know for a fact that that's not the case and you still find yourself going hither thither and yawn like a leaf in the wind, you must trust those directions. If you're following your excitement truly, and that's where your excitement leads, follow it. Your excitement is the thread that leads to all other excitement. Understand that when excitement lures Understand that when excitement lures you in a certain direction, do not take with you the expectation that what the excitement has lured you to must be completed in the way you have been taught that it must. If your excitement lasts until the end of the completion of the act, then by all means, you needed to complete it. If it doesn't, you don't. Many times you are lured by excitement into a certain endeavor into a certain situation because there is a certain thing you need from it and nothing more and then all of a sudden your excitement diverts. Follow it. It may seem to be a very crooked path but that's the straightest one. Following your excitement. When you look and analyze with your mind and say, "Well, wait a minute. Wait a minute. I'm excited about this, but now I'm excited about that. And I don't see any connection. What does this have to do with that? They don't have anything in common whatsoever. I don't get whatsoever. I don't get it. You have been taught for so long to judge books by their cover that you still do it. And you still think that surface appearance means anything. It means nothing except the meaning you give it. But you have been taught to give surface appearance certain kinds of meanings automatically. Therefore, many times you don't see the connection because you are attempting to analyze a connection to logic a connection out. It's the feeling of excitement that tells you that this event and this event are connected. They don't have to appear connected. They don't have to look like they have anything at all to do with each other at all. It's the feeling of excitement that tells you they are. And it's the feeling of excitement that tells you go this way because that's the shortest path. If you insist that oh no, no, that can't possibly be right. I know it feels exciting, but I can't see how that could possibly have anything to do with this. I must go this way. I must go this way. You'll sit there and you'll bang your head against the wall until you build up more resistance and more suffering and more struggling until one day you finally say, "All right, all right. All right. I'm tired of fighting." All right. Now, what was that other thing that excited me way back then many years ago? Oh, yes. I remember now. All right, I give up. I'll do that. It is more exciting. Oh, now I'm doing it. Oh, well. Yeah, this is fun. Why didn't I do this years ago? I don't know. Why? Because you were taught not to believe in yourself. You were taught not to believe in your dream. You were taught not to follow your feeling, your excitement, your passion because it was silly, because it was childish. And a variety of very creative reasons in the negative.

### Understanding Trust and Doubt

Very often we talk about the idea of having 100% trust. All right. I know now what excites me and now you tell me Bashar that I have to have 100% trust and move in that direction only in order to create that reality. Oh my goodness. 100% trust. Everybody, everybody, everybody knows how hard that is. There's always a little doubt. 

A little tiny doubt creeps in here. How can I have 100% trust and have it all the time? Oh, you ask too much. That's too difficult. I can't do that. No one can do that.

Oh, yes, you can. because it's the simplest thing you can. because it's the simplest thing you could possibly do. You know why? I'll tell you. Thank you. You're already doing it. You're confused again by it. You're confused again by definition. You say, "But doubt, doubt, doubt, doubt, doubt creeps in." Well, yes. Okay. 

Doubt creeps in. But what is doubt? Well, doubt is a lack of trust. No, it's not. Doubt is a 100% trust in a reality you don't prefer. Big prefer. Big difference. Big difference. It's a 100% trust in a reality you have been taught to believe in. Big difference. That's all doubt is. It's a trust in a reality in a belief in a definition other than the one you want. That's it. You never never never never trust. You always trust in something. If you didn't, you wouldn't have an experiential reality because with your trust in something, you create your physical reality and everything you experience in it. So, you're always buying into some belief, some definition. You are trusting something. And when you trust, you trust 100%. It's your nature. You're a creator. You can't help yourself. It's second nature to you. Actually, first nature to you. It is automatic. So automatic, you have been able to play the game that you don't even know you're doing it. You have been able to play the game of forgetting. It's so automatic. Now you can begin to unlock these definitions and realize that when we talk about the idea of having 100% trust and acting on the thing that excites you, we're not asking you to do something you don't know how to do. We're asking you simply that it is possible to consider that it is possible for you to now shift your trust, your 100% trust from a definition you don't prefer to a definition you do prefer and see the change in your reality. Simple, very simple to do. Very simple.

### Redefining Abundance

Abundance is the ability to do what you need to do when you need to do it. Period. Hey, you didn't say anything about money. Tell us about money. What good is abundance without money? Well, what good is money without abundance? Allow yourself to understand again the Allow yourself to understand again the basic definition of abundance. 

The ability to do what you need to do when you need to do it. Now, yes, on your planet, we understand you have one symbol of abundance called money. Yes, it's valid.

Yes, it's created. Yes, it's going to change. But that's all right. It's still valid. Just as creative as any other way to represent abundance. What do you mean any other way? What other way? Oh, many other ways. Many other ways. And that's the difficulty in your definition. If you don't see abundance as money, very often you don't see abundance. You're blind. Abundance blind. Because money green is the only color you allow abundance to come in. Comes in a total spectrum. Total spectrum. The idea is to understand again that you must relax your insistence that it must come in this way or I won't accept it. I won't recognize it. If I don't see it this and such on this and this date to the pedal, I'm not abundant. What's wrong with me? I can't attract What's wrong with me? I can't attract this amount of money by this and this date because I need it for this and I need it for that. What's wrong with me? Again, it's just the definition. If you allow yourself to understand that abundance is simply whatever way, shape, or form your automatic synchronicity can attract into your life to allow you to do what you need to do when you need to do it. Then you will begin to realize that you are quite abundant and have been for quite some time. that you can have money when money is the strongest way that a particular kind of abundance can be fulfilled. The way that a particular kind of situation can be represented by abundance and money will be there. You will attract the opportunity to give you the money. But when money is not the simplest way, when it is not the path of least resistance, it may be the last way that resistance, it may be the last way that will manifest. But you may be receiving many other ways that abundance is manifesting in your life or I'll say attempting to manifest in your life but you may not be allowing it to. Again because of your definitions I'll give you an analogy one analogy and this keys directly into the concept of fundamental unconscious belief system.

Many individuals on your planet when they are growing up they see many stories, many parables as you call them. And perhaps one day you see the parable of the very rich persons and in absorbing being an open little child being open to all information, you sit there and absorb this parable. And this parable says this person is exceedingly abundant and at the same time this person is exceedingly mean, an exceedingly nasty person. Oh, and so your little budding mind says abundance equals nastiness. and it joins the two and they marry and they fuse in your consciousness belief matrix. And so one day when you have forgotten that you ever heard that parable, you grow up and you say to yourself, you know, I would really, really like to be abundant. I'd really like to be rich. But then all of a sudden, somewhere deep down, so deep down that you can't even hear it, the little voice says, "But if you become rich, you're going to become nasty, and I don't want to do that. So I'm not going to let you become rich." Now when you begin to delve deep in your meditation, when you are quiet within yourself and dive back through your own personal history and discover what the beliefs are you have about situations in life, including abundance, and where you got those beliefs, why you have them, then you can recognize how you may be sabotaging yourself. constantly shortcircuiting yourself constantly by having piggyback belief systems that have no business being joined together. When you understand that you may have beliefs like the one I just mentioned, you can then clarify the issue by saying, "Ah, but now I understand a person can be rich without being mean. Now I understand that." But I had to understand that I believed it was not possible before this point that I equated nastiness and abundance as one concept and therefore I would not allow myself to be rich because I did not want to be nasty. I did not want the whole picture of what I thought it meant to be rich. How would I prefer to believe it is to be rich? Redefine, rewrite your own personal definition. Once you understand what the definition is you have, rewrite it. Use your imagination. Rewrite it the way you prefer it to be. I am a loving, kind, beautiful, artistic, creative, rich individual. That's the kind of individual I prefer That's the kind of individual I prefer to be and I now know I can be without in any way, shape or form having to hurt anyone else or myself to be whatever I want. That's how powerful I really am. That's true power. When you understand that you are already as powerful as you need to be without having to hurt anyone else or yourself in order to create the reality you prefer, then you know true power. Power is not control is not domination. Is not attempting to try to make your reality conform to your willpower. No will It's simply focus. It's simply clarity about who and what you are, what it is you prefer, and prefer, and clarity about what it is you believe you deserve. Big issue, deservability, big issue, especially with regard to abundance. Do I deserve to be abundant? I'm ready to be a billionaire. I deserve it. But again, it is the actions themselves. It is the reality itself that says it all. Are you willing to believe it to the point where you're willing to be it, to act it, to be that person, that abundant person that can then attract the reality to themselves?

### The Triad of Manifestation: See It, Feel It, Be It


There are three steps to the manifestation of any reality. Three steps. You have to see it. You have to have that vision that this is true for you. That this is your passion. 

That this is your excitement. You have to feel it. You have to really viscerally feel that excitement. You have to plug all your senses into that. Vision has to be really real for you. But the third step, most of you never do. You're all very good, very often at visualizing the dream. You're all very good, very often at feeling excited about the dream. Oh, only if, only if, if only, if only. But when it comes down to the third step, doing it, acting it, being it, you're lost. What do I do? I can see it. I can taste it. But what do I do? I don't know how to do it, how to act it. I don't know how to be it. This is critical because you are physical beings in a physical reality. Physical action must accompany your vision and your feelings. Must be a triad or you're an incomplete concept. Therefore, let me clarify what I mean when I say see it, feel it, and be it.

Now, let's say you have a particular vision. You have a particular dream. And in this dream, you are the president of a multi-billion dollar corporation. 

You can see it. There you are in your big office sitting behind your big desk. Now understand, I am not playing to your ego in the negative sense. There are things that are representative of the degree to which you are willing to be expansive within your dreams. And that sometimes you get confused with negative ego. And that's where other issues of lack of deservability come in. Oh no, no, it's all right. I can have this little desk. That's okay. I don't want to be ostentatious. No one's saying you have to be ostentatious. But if you're the president of a multi-billion dollar corporation, chances are you're going to have a debt that's bigger than a postage [Music] stamp. 

So give yourself the opportunity stamp. So give yourself the opportunity to really get into the clothing of the reality. And I mean this very literally, and that's where the third step comes in. For when you see the vision and when you can really feel it, you've got to act it out. You've got to train your body consciousness to know what it really physically feels like in any way, shape, or form you possibly can. You've got to play, act it through, physicalize it, walk it through like a rehearsal for a play. Go out and get the props, make the props, borrow the props, build the props. I suggest you don't steal the props. You want to do this with an integrity. 

But however you can do it, physically act through the strongest representation of the thing that excites you the most. Put the clothes on. Borrow the clothes. Paint the clothes you have to look like the clothes you want. It's all right if for now they are simply props by proxy. The idea is to get in the physical habit of physically acting out the dream you see and the dream you feel to train you to get used to that vibration that reality. It's very important. Very important for you to play act. When you were a child that was act. When you were a child that was allowed but did that ever get drummed out of most of you as you were growing up? 

Don't play. Get serious. Time to work. Put away your toys. You have to act this out. I will guarantee you 100%. Do your research. Any individual in your society that is extremely [Music] successful, if you observe or ask them successful, if you observe or ask them how they got that way, I guarantee you 100% there was a period of time where they physically playacted out the dream they wanted before they actually had it the best of their ability. They physicalized it and trained themselves into the new habit of literally being that person. Understand how important this is because you are vibration. You are energy. You give off a signature energy. 

You give off a signature [Applause] vibration. If you say in your vision that you are the president of a multi-billion dollar corporation, but you're still going around clipping out coupons to save three cents on something, you have a conflict of body language with your vision. If you're walking around like this, oh well, yes, I'm the president of multi Oh yeah, I believe you. Surely you are. I do not really think so. The idea is to understand that you must you must you must walk your talk physics. talk physics. 

I guarantee you, you will be amazed at how quickly opportunities and situations will be attracted in your life as soon as you start dawning the garment of the person in the vision that you see. You have a very good teacher in see. You have a very good teacher in that vision. When you have the vision of you doing the thing that excites you the most, look at that you. Look at how that you acting. Look at the body language. Look at the confidence. Look at the joy. Copy what you see physically. Mimic it. And you will change your frequency. And when you change your frequency, everything around you will reflect the change. I guarantee it. You have far more power than you know. You do it all the time, but you're doing it unconsciously. And you usually are choosing unconsciously things that you don't prefer. Bring it up to the surface of your consciousness. Act it out. Act it out. It's a very powerful tool. Very powerful. Very powerful.

### The Analogy of the Dream House

Back on the issue of abundance. Again, as long as you trust that you are Again, as long as you trust that you are not avoiding something that you need to look at, you must trust that your excitement is the thing to follow. Another analogy. Another analogy. You are so excited about a house, about having a house, a beautiful dream house. I would love to live in a house. house. I would love to live in a house. Oh, look up on that hill like that one. That's my symbol. That's my model. I want a house like that. This is all consuming. It is my passion to live in a house like that. Well, now how can I do that? I can't afford that. I don't have the money. Guess I'll have to go get a job. I'm not really excited about that. But that's the only way I can think of. I have to get a job. Have to work very hard. I have to save a lot of money. And maybe in a few years, maybe I can have a house like that one on that hill. So, I better go get a job. So, you scan your paper. You don't really see anything exciting, but you see something old tolerable because you say, "Well, it's worth it. It's worth it because I'm going to get that house someday. It's worth it to suffer now because I'm going to get rewarded later. That's a big one in religion, [Music] [Music] which by the way is quite unique to your planet, back to the house.

So, you're walking down the street with a paper under your arm, ready to go on that big job interview to get that job you know you're not really going to be excited about, but it's all right. It's okay. It's a living. And you run into a plan. Well, hello. How are you? Why don't you come and join me for lunch? Well, you know, that's an awful exciting proposition compared to what I'm about to do. Definitely more exciting than going on this job. But no, I don't have time. I've got to go. If I don't go on this interview, I'll miss the job. I won't be able to make the money. I will never get my house. And that's what really excites me. Well, you've got to eat. It can't work. If you don't keep up your strength, well, all right, good argument. I'll spare a little time because it is more exciting. I'll spare a little time, but I can't be late. I can't be late. So, off you go. You all your excitement. the most exciting thing that you were offered at that moment. Out of all the things you could act on, you took the one that excited you the most at that moment. And you went and had lunch and you were having such a good time. Oh, as you say, where did the time go? Oh no. Oh no. I missed the job interview. Now I'll never get the job. Now I'll never make the money. Now I'll never have my house. Oh no. And as you sit there bemoaning your face, a friend of your friend comes along, sits down and says, "Well, hello. Nice to meet you." But why the long thing? Well, long story, but you go through the whole thing anyway because misery loves [Laughter] company. And you wind it up with, "Now I'll never be able to get my dream house." You know, I would love to have a house like that. You know that one up on that hill on such and such a street? I would love What? Such and such a street? You mean up there on top? Oh, yeah. that I would love to have a house like that. I'd love to live in a house. That's what really excited excite me. But well, now I'm excited excite me. But well, now I'm never going to have that house cuz I don't have a job. I don't have any money. But wait a minute, says the new friend, that's my [Music] house. And you know what? I was very house. And you know what? I was very happy to see my other friend here because I was going to ask my other friend, say, by the way, I'm leaving for about 3 years to go on an extended trip and I was going to ask if you knew of anyone who might want to stay in my house and take care of it for free. [Laughter] [Music] [Music] Oh, you mean if I had gone on the job interview, I would never have made this lunch and I would never have run into you and you would never have offered me the ability to stay in my dream house for free. I get [Music] it.

And now here come the panel of cynics. That's a fairy tale. Life doesn't work that way. That's too good to be Oh, that's just a coincidence. That'll happen in a million. One in a million chance. Oh, what are the odds? All right. Thank you, cynics. You had your say. Goodbye. Life does work that way all the time, every moment, every second, when you allow it to. By following the thing that excites you the most and allowing your positive synchronicity, not accidental coincident. Yes, coincidence, but not coincident. Yes, coincidence, but not accidental. When you allow your positive synchronicity to work for you in the same way you've been allowing your negative synchronicity to work for you, missing the boat. Missing the boat is negative synchronicity because it is a perfectly timed reflection of your fears and doubts. The idea of perfect timing is something that you always have. It's simply again a matter of whether you have perfect timing in the things you do or don't prefer. That's all. Your timing is always flawless. What it brings you is utterly based on what you put out. The third absolute what you put out is what you get back.

Following your excitement allows you to stay on that level of high energy, high positive synchronicity so that the reality you get is like what you call a fairy tale is magical. It's miraculous. Remember a miracle is not an exception to the rule. It is the natural order of things. When miracles don't happen, that's the exception. See what an exceptional world you have. Allow yourselves to begin to realize that you are miraculous. You are magical. Nothing is too good to be true. Nothing. [Music] Zero. It is all real. It is all true. That's the most astonishing thing you are discovering and that many people are going to discover in this expansion age upon your planet is that what you have been taught to believe is nothing but a fairy tale is actually reality. You're going to wake up into a reality. You're going to wake up into a new dream, a dream of consciousness. Absolute.

### Creating Opportunity and The Razor's Edge

Now understand that many things begin to happen. Many things begin to happen when you start along that path consciously. When you wake up and you start seeing things, many things begin to happen. First of all, as we have just illustrated, you begin to recognize that abundance comes in many forms. Sometimes you can simply be gifted something or exchange, provide service for and receive in a variety of ways the things you need to do. The things you need, the ability to do the things you need when you need to do them. If that individual had insisted on the money, might have taken them years to get the house. Because they didn't insist, because they fought their excitement, they've got the house now. Nobody down. Nobody needed ever. They've got the experience they want. It's the experience. Do not insist that the situation has to be in a certain arrangement. So that's the first thing you learn about abundance is there are many forms of it. Let them come to you. Do not shut the door. Let them come by following your excitement.

[Music] The next thing you The next thing you learn is that as soon as you start rolling, you must then continue to roll. You must continue to act on the opportunities that come to you that you attract into your life. Understand that when you are focused in a negative way, opportunities are invisible to you. You literally don't see them. But when you open up to the idea that you are automatically aligned and synchronized with everything that you need, you start to see the things that have always been there but you could not see. And so you must act at any given moment at any given moment on the thing that excites you the most that you have the highest degree of capability of acting upon. Sometimes it will seem the things come but have equal excitement. Act on the one that has the highest degree of ability to be acted upon because that will never be the same. That will never be equal. And the other thing that seeing more than one thing that excites you equally tells you is that there might be an overall allencompassing category into which these things fall. That is the most exciting thing that you could ever do. and that these equal exciting things are simply different manifestations of the one most exciting thing. Let that be your clue into the thing that excites you the most.

You don't have to have a life spanning career in order to know what the thing is that excites you the most. You can take it a step at a time. What is the thing that excites you the most right now? Stay in the moment. Stay in the moment. That's the best way to fulfill the lifespaning career. Anyway, do the thing at any given moment that excites you the most, that you're most capable of doing something about, and it will lead you automatically and effortlessly and abundantly into the situation that you need to be led into to provide you the ability to do the next most exciting thing that you could possibly do. So follow that thread. Excitement is do. So follow that thread. Excitement is the thread. Follow it. You laid it out. Follow. It's your friend now. Many of you have begun to do this to fall in your excitement in life. Many of you have begun to act on the opportunities that you attract into your life. And many of you have now arrived at a new threshold which I will now address. Sometimes you say, well, I have been doing this thing that excites me and I have been recognizing that opportunities have been coming to me and I have been acting on them and then all of a sudden something stops. I start to see pieces of opportunity. No whole opportunity, no whole direction makes itself obvious or apparent. Now what? What's happening? Am I slipping back into my negativity? What's happening to me? All right. A very important threshold to remember. You are a creator and at a certain point you are going to be expected in a sense by your action to act more like a creator. And what that means is this. as you create in a sense the ability to act, to trust, to be excited, to follow your dreams. And as you attract opportunity in whole form, there will come a time when all of a sudden you will shift from attracting opportunity to being expected to create the opportunity. create the opportunity literally as you say from scratch. That's where you really have to be bold, where you really have to be inspired, where you really have to use your imagination and your full creativity to actually invent, to create, to manifest from nothing the opportunity that then you can act on. Now you're pulling yourself up by your own bootstraps. Now you are actually bootstraps. Now you are actually creating the stepping stones that you take the next step on. You're not just waiting for them to come. After you take a step, you enact see the opportunity come. Yes, up to a certain point, but after that point, you must actually build the next step before you can take the next step. You will understand what I mean about this. if you have arrived at that point or when you do because you will. But that's where your full blossom and full power of creativity is expected to come to bear. Or do you have to look at things like you've never looked at them before and see the ability in nothing to create an opportunity to see things that might be completely disassociated to most people but see how they connect and to connect them and create a new third thing that is an opportunity not only for you but for all individuals involved in the connection. Then you are really high powered. Then you're really beginning to take the first baby steps of true creation, true manifestation.

And here's the other side of that coin. Speaking of abundance, we call this principle the razor's edge because the more you move in the edge because the more you move in the direction of doing the things and only the things that excite you the things that excite you the most, the infinite universe plays a lovely little trick on you. All of a sudden, nothing but the things that really excite you the most will work for you anymore. You can't go back. You can't fall back. You can't play it safe. You can't begin to choose something that is even an iota off the razor's edge of the thing that really is the most exciting thing you could be doing. All of a sudden, you're not allowed to be sloppy. Now, staying on the razor's edge does not mean it's easy to fall off. It actually means it's easier to stay on it because you only now have an absolute narrow bandwidth that is really the thing that represents what you really want to do. So in a sense it's actually easier to stay on it. It's not a balancing act except that when you allow yourself to follow only that you are in balance. That's the paradox. But you will find it more and more difficult. The more you choose the things that excite you, the more difficult it will be to make anything else work for you. Everything will start collapsing, falling apart. It may seem as if you are hitting the bottom of the barrel. But that's because you are creating in a stronger and stronger and stronger way the ability to narrow down that definition that this at this moment and only this at this moment is the thing that is really me and these are not. They might be similar might be off only by 0.000000001%. 0 oh001%. oh001%. But the stronger you stay on the razor's edge and the longer you stay on the razor's edge, the warrior path of creativity, the stronger the impact will be of even that small percentage in making you feel that you are out of balance. You will be like a laser You will be like a laser beam. Totally coherent, totally focused, straight line right along your path. Unairing synchronicity on maximum overdrive. Absolute ecstatic explosions of synchronicity every moment, every day, all the time, constantly. Now the only question remaining is do you really believe you can handle that much [Music] [Music] ecstasy that will be up to you again it may be the issue of deservability but I will also guarantee this you are a 100% being not 101 and not 99 100% 99 100% % If 70% of you is focused in something that you don't want to do, that you don't prefer, if you're holding back, playing it safe, having something to fall back on just in case, how can you possibly expect anything but 30% of your dream to come true? You are a 100% being. And if you hold back, then your reality stays back, then your reality stays representative of what you're holding back. And the closer you get, as we just said, the closer you get to really living more and more in the thing that excites you, then the less percentage it takes to prevent you from experiencing the totality of your dream. When you're really going full boore, even onetenth of 1% is enough to prevent the dream from manifesting at all. If you're holding back onetenth of 1%, you're holding back the whole thing. Understand that you have an analogy in this in your physics that as you approach the speed of light, you gain infinite mass and that in a sense slows you down. So you must drop the excess baggage that doesn't belong there. The faster you go in a sense the more you will be. But you must also allow yourself to be only what it is you prefer. Again this is a paradox. But when you deal with paradox, that's when you know you are in paradox, that's when you know you are in the center of yourself. Because all things that you call polarity and all things that you call dichotomy and all things that you recognize as conflicting points of view obviously must originate in the center of your being somewhere. Obviously they are in some way, shape or form in the center of yourself, reconciled. And it is through the doorway of paradox that when you know you're dealing with your higher self. When you recognize that the easiest thing to be should be you. Yet that's been the most difficult thing of all on your planet. All the struggling and all the suffering has been from your attempt. Your learned response in an attempt to be someone else, something you're not. Something you know is not you. But now you don't have to do that anymore. You don't have to do that [Music] anymore.

### The New You and Final Thoughts

Now understand something else. The people that you are, the persona that you are, the person is in a sense an artificial construct of your consciousness, of your soul, a projection, a face, a mask. When we say artificial, we do not mean to imply that you are not natural, but it is a construct nonetheless. And it is created out of three things in this physical reality. As we have said, your beliefs, your emotions, your thoughts. Every time you change any belief to any degree, any feeling to any degree, any thought to any degree, you change the whole person literally. I am not speaking philosophically. This is not an analogy. Take me literally. Every time you change a single thought, you are a completely different person. I don't care if you think you look the same. A graphic analogy. Imagine now in your mind a cube. A blue cube. Totally blue on all six faces. Blue cube. Change one face just one to red. The habit you fit in in the past is to say all right I have changed one face of the blue cube to red. Same cube different face. No you can look at it that way and therefore you can say the cube has made a little change. But something else can occur to you. You could say, "Well, wait a minute. Wait a minute. The concept, the fundamental concept of a cube with five blue faces and one red one is a completely different cube from a cube with six blue faces. It is a totally different cube. It is not just the same cube with a little change. It is a totally different cube. Everything has changed. I now have two completely different cues here. Now understand the importance of the difference of this definitional style. If you believe that you have made a little change from time to time within yourself, you are growing, you are processing, you are changing, yes, but you are also changing slowly over a long period of time. Making a little change here and a little change there. All right. No need to judge it as bad. It's not. At the same time, if you can grasp the understanding, the full understanding that any change you make means the total you is a new you. Understand what that means. It means that if you really understand you are a completely new you, then anything that you don't prefer that you have been no longer has any effect on you because the new you doesn't have the same history. Literally, literally, literally, literally, if you really understood this principle and were able to make such a quantum shift, anything in you that you call a shift, anything in you that you call a habit or a pattern would no longer exist within the new you because the new you doesn't have the history and the new you wouldn't have the urges of the old you. If an individual fully understood this, no matter how strong an addiction to something they might have had, if they really make the shift completely, the new you will have no addiction. Zero. Because they will not have the same history because they are a different person literally. This is also something you can begin to do on your planet because now all the locks are off. You can change that quickly. All the limitations are off. You can change as rapidly as you are comfortable in doing. It's up to you. You're in control. It's your planet. It's your life. We are here to share with you. Different perspective that work for us, but in no way, shape, or form are we telling you what to do. It's your world. You have to decide what's best for you. You have to decide what's true for you. The paradox for us is that should you decide to live as the infinite creators you are, that will only help to expand the universe for us as well. Because if you create yourselves to be equal to all other beings, then there are that many more beings for us to play with. [Music] So we get something out of this too. So we get something out of this too. This is not all one-sided. I'm doing this for selfish reasons [Music] [Music] too.

So understand understand that what you have experienced as a society, as a species, as a civilization is unique and valuable. You have a perspective like no one else's. So do we. So does everyone else within the association of worlds that we [Music] recognize. Allow yourselves to create recognize. Allow yourselves to create the reality that you desire individually and collectively. And remember again another paradox. The way to allow the whole society to work together and live together and love together in peace to be the strongest unified whole society that it can be is to be the most whole unified individual you can be. When each of you do that, then each of you is the whole facet that you are of the multi-dimensional crystal that your whole society is. And you are then one. Being one, being unified is not at the expense of your identity. It is the strengthening of your individual identity, the full realization and manifestation of your individual identity. That's what creates a unified world. That's the paradox. Again, when you deal with the paradox, you know you're dealing with the center. You know you're dealing with the high true self. That's the key. Follow it. It's easy. It really is. Follow it. I'm not lying. I guarantee it. I can't prove it to you. Only you can prove it to yourself. But I guarantee I guarantee that if you live your dream, follow your passion, be your excitement, act it out, you will manifest the change that goes hand in hand, part and parcel along with that frequency. The variation on the third absolute that what you put out is what you get back is to also remember that you cannot experience you can not experience a reality that you are not the vibration of. So this idea this concept of the transformation being experienced by you in cataclysmic catastrophic ways. Yes, some people may experience it that way perhaps because they are creating themselves to exist in a vibration of fear and doubt. But if that is not your vibration, you will only experience the transformation that is going on your planet in a positive way. You will be where you need to be when you need to be there and you will experience it in a positive way according to each vibration, each individual vibration. So relax, relax. Worry and fear are the vibration that lure you into catastrophe. Relax. Love. No matter what things you Relax. Love. No matter what things you have to work on, no matter what things you have to process, no matter how negative you may have been, you still deserve to love yourselves unconditionally. Again, remember all that is loves you unconditionally enough to have created you. Don't argue with that. If you're going to doubt, at least give If you're going to doubt, at least give yourself the benefit of the doubt, not the negative of the doubt. Stop being so hard on yourselves. You deserve it. You deserve everything you can imagine that would give you joy. I know this to be a fact. Remember, no matter what you may feel about yourselves, we believe in you utterly. yourselves, we believe in you utterly. We know you have the ability to create heaven on earth. We know that the so-called second coming on your planet is the manifestation of the world's spirit in each and every one of you. That's your second coming, so to speak. The Christ consciousness, the Buddha The Christ consciousness, the Buddha consciousness, it is all the same. It's the world spirit, the collective whole manifesting through you. Be that world spirit. That's what was meant when your Christ consciousness said, "I am the way." It meant be this way, be like me, act this way, not just follow along, not just spout off the idea of follow me, follow me, follow me. No, be me. That's what it meant. That's what it meant. Relax the definition. Relax the definition of limitation. You don't need them anymore. They have served you. Don't judge them. Love them. They have shown you one way to experience all that is. Now you can be more than that. More than that, all that you wish to be true. We extend to you at this timing our deepest appreciation in being allowed to interact with your civilization in this way. You have given us a great gift. We thank you and we are overjoyed to know that you may allow yourselves to create a day wherein we can all play as equals. But you have to meet us halfway.