---
heading: Part 2 of
title: "Implants and Energy Beams"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2015-06-20
icon: Bashar
weight: 11
showdate: true
tags: ['']
---



**Asker:** As a psychic healer for years when I scan people's bodies, I notice something you can call an energy field or a beam that's going into bodies. 

I'll trace it back on many occasions I'll trace it back to uh UFO or an extraterrestrial.

I find that when people having physical problems like pains in certain areas, when I remove the beam, the pain goes away.

I've been told that some of these are implants and I've been told that they're negative. And I was wondering I wanted you to explain to me maybe I don't know if that's what it is if there is such a thing as an implant and why um an extraterrestrial or UFO would want to put beams into people on this planet.


**Bashar:** A: yes there are implants. B: they do not occur with many civilizations, in fact very few.

There are many many many civilizations out here. Not all of us are aligned in our point of view. 

We are not one big happy club. There are many with their own agendas. 

Even though we have an association of worlds and in that association we are basically in alignment, there are many who are not a part of that. 

There are many who are forming their own agreements with your civilization and interacting with your civilization in a various number of ways.

Some of the things that have been happening to some of your species members that may seem on the surface to be uncomfortable, painful, negative, or interactions with some of these other species, some of these other races, they have their own agendas, their own things they wish to learn. 

Some of the discomfort simply comes from misunderstanding. Some of the discomfort comes from an inability of one species to really be able to identify even on what you would consider the most basic level of similarity with each other. Some of the discomfort comes from being forced to face certain aspects of your own consciousness that you may not yet be ready to face.

Some of the beams in that sense can also be considered implants, not physiological ones although those exist, but implants in the sense that adjustments were made in a person's energy to allow them to look at certain things. Now they can be painful sometimes because perhaps the energies going through certain chakras or energy gates in the body are pouring more energy through that gate than the person may be used to handling. And so it may be painful for a while until they can adjust to it.

It is not a negative thing necessarily to take that away, but you're not really taking it away. The idea is that you may be allowing them a little bit of a vacation, a little bit of a respite.

You may be readjusting or fine-tuning their energy to allow them to be more acclimated to the change that has occurred within them so they can handle the energy better and thus it is not painful for them any longer. The beam may seem to disappear but what in many cases may actually be happening is that their energy is adjusting to encompass the beam so it simply vanishes within the total energy that they now have changed themselves to and is no longer recognizable because it doesn't stand out.

The whole spectrum that you have mentioned is true, but each case has to be taken individually to understand what is happening in that specific case. 


**Asker:** am I putting myself at danger by uh interacting with these UFOs and and removing some of these beams from people's bodies?

**Bashar:** Are you doing it with the overall intention of being of assistance?

**Asker:** I'm doing it with the intention of helping and if somebody's in physical pain, that's why they would come to me.

**Bashar:** Then you are in no danger.

**Asker:** Okay. I'm mean in danger with uh these the extraterrestrials.

**Bashar:** Are you doing it with the intention of being of assistance?

**Asker:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Then you are in no danger. Okay. Do you understand how the two are connected?

**Asker:** I do understand that now.

I'm curious because there are times when I put my attention out and I feel that I am in communication with UFOs and sometimes at times I felt that there was some kind of an energy um that was coming towards me to make me forget certain things.


**Bashar:** mostly this is simply a rebound or an echo of the inner fears that you are expressing right now. 

Because when you send out, when you send that beam out, the things that are reflected to you and the things that will stand out the most are the issues within you that you must process the strongest. If they are fear, if it is something that you may wish to forget, then forgetfulness will usually be the strongest echo that comes back.

this may seem threatening. Do not view it that way. 

There is nothing that any of you ever has to forget. The only reason that there is forgetting from time to time and the only reason it may seem as if forgetting is imposed upon you from time to time is because you are holding yourselves in check because there are certain things that you are afraid to look at. 

You in all the cases of forgotten time, missing time, forgotten episodes, forgotten interactions, each and every one of you are always sent on your way holding firmly, holding the control, the button, the string that will immediately unlock all the forgetfulness when you are ready to face what it is you have forgotten about yourselves.

It is all right to be afraid. But you don't have to be afraid of being afraid. 

That's usually what stops you. It's all right to be afraid. 

Let yourself dive into the fear, process it, and then you will know through your feeling, through your emotionality, what it is about yourself that you have been taught to separate, to segregate, and what you can bring back and absorb and integrate within you.


More often than not you do not allow yourselves to feel or to be in touch with feelings that would help you integrate yourself because you are afraid of being afraid. You remove yourself two steps beyond the original feeling. It is all right to be afraid. You can be afraid and you can still do anything you want, even if you're afraid. Being afraid does not stop you from doing what you want. Being afraid of being afraid stops you.

Understand the difference. Just being afraid about something directly does not ever stop you from doing what you want. 

**Asker:** I've been doing this now for many many years and I don't I don't have a fear at all.

I just want to my I'm curious about this implant. 

What is the intention of putting an implant in someone's head? Is it with the intention of getting information from us or to put information to give us information?

**Bashar:** That is two.

**Asker:** Does it take away our self-determinism where we're thinking?

**Bashar:** No, no. it also keeps track of what the person. out of 6 billion people, it would take a while to find one if there were not a beacon somewhere. 

It is important to find the people that they have already made agreements with, they are already working with. 

Because those people they are working with, they are working with for specific reasons. 

**Bashar:** Again, it doesn't mean that it has to happen this way. Part of the reason it is happening this way in such a clandestine fashion is because of the structure that exists in your own governments of keeping things secret. Once all of this is brought out to the open, none of this really has to happen this way. But again, the race that is doing this has their own agenda, quite separate from ours, quite separate from most of the beings in the association. They are very much more a reflection of your own society than you might think.



### Earthquake Prediction and World Events

**Asker:** somebody has told me about an energy flow that relating to a possible earthquake on July 16 around 10:45 p.m. our time.

**Bashar:** That is still within the realm of possibility. 

We already had sent information 3 days prior to your last moderate quake to the channel. He knew that one was coming.

We have said last time that there is still a possibility of this to continue to shift throughout your month of July. It is a general energy that does exist and is highly probable at this time, but there is no need for fear.

**Asker:** No, no, no. I just very curious on the the specifics that I was it was related to me.

**Bashar:** And that's why the pinpointing will be difficult. Uh it does exist in strong probability fashion, but it is always fluctuating because each and every one of you are always funneling through yourselves the ability to smooth that energy out and experience the shift in a very different way than you originally used to think you had to.

**Asker:** I see. Um the other the other question that I had was just in view of recent world events. Yes. Um our our president seems to be cooking again to try and persuade more military action in the middle east. And I was wondering if there was something that you could share with us perhaps that we can be doing for ourselves uh collectively or individually to be able to put some sort of energy into the universe to try and remain.

**Bashar:** What has your own imagination come up with so far since it is your planet after all? 

**Bashar:** Meditation with for peace by consciously concentrating on sending direct energy into the universe for peace.

**Bashar:** But will you back it up with an action? Will it only be meditation or will there be also intention?

What sort of action could I take other than marching up and down a street somewhere with a placard?

**Bashar:** Is it so that that is doing something and that would be. That's just one. Right? I didn't say that was it. That's just one. What else can you do?

**Asker:** Uh relate to friends and people.

**Bashar:** Yes, share the idea in various number of ways to do what?

**Asker:** To to meditate, harmonize or yeah to harmonize the energy flow. And what does that mean?

**Bashar:** To meditate. All right. But what else? What will you do with your body?

**Asker:** Uh I'll ask it another way.

**Bashar:** Okay. Obviously you are asking this question because you have a great deal of concern about this issue, do you not?

**Asker:** True.

**Bashar:** All right. Well if you have a great deal of focus on this issue, are there not people you could be talking with? Are there not things you could be organizing? Are there not other suggestions you could be sharing with people about how to go about interacting with other people in the world? Are there not other people who have already perhaps put ideas down that you could make other people aware of as to how to go about rearranging your whole concept of the idea of war and militarism and how you have to spend your energy and so on and so forth? Are there not ideas and forums and congregations and suggestions and bills and laws and all sorts of ideas and lobbying and discussing and talking and speaking and putting yourself out there and organizing and creating organizations and doing work and handing out flyers and putting up billboards and all sorts of things that you could be creating artwork that you could be making that is dedicated to peace, talking to people, opening dialogues between your country and other countries? Are there not all these things you could be doing to create peace?

**Asker:** Absolutely.

**Bashar:** Oh well, all right. When will you start? Pick anyone or invent your own. Meditation is all well and good because that aligns you and it does put out energy in the universe that makes it able for more people to do more things in that direction. But that is the whole point. Creating the energy makes it more able for things to be done. But if you don't do anything with the ability, what's the meditation for? Right. So do something. If you are focused on these ideas, use your creative imagination, use your artistry, create something, create an action, create a situation, create a dialogue, create a place, a space, a presence, a communication, a form of art, some form of presenting your point of view, sharing it with people, getting people to move to act. Do it in an inspirational way.



### Imagination vs. Action and Pleiadian Dream

**Asker:** you say if you just can imagine it you are being it. now you're talking about doing it. So I just sort of got the idea that being it wasn't really going to have much an impact.

**Bashar:** When we say imagine it, we are talking about a level of imagination far beyond what your world usually defines that word to mean. When we say imagine it, we mean the whole act of being that idea. 

We do not just mean sitting there and mentalizing. it is not just imaging it. Imagination is an action. It is a whole inspirational act of being the idea itself.

**Bashar:** You yourself when repeating the word if you imagine it you are being it, that phrase contains the seeds of understanding what we mean. Because if you are being something, then you are automatically acting in a certain way.

**Asker:** Yeah, I can see how the action is actually the part of the the being. That's what the being is. So if you imagine it, if you know that because you can imagine it that you are at that moment the being itself, then you will be that way and being that way means acting like what you are imagining. Right? It's all one thing. Didn't mean to imply that there was any separation in that function in that mechanism. It is all one device.

**Asker:** a week ago I had a dream. there was a Pleiadian spaceship that I saw and I believe I was beamed up into it. Pleiadian spaceship. 

Many of you are beamed up in astral form during dreams.

I also I I was just wondering if you could share or if you knew anything as to about what was going on because I really didn't have any much memory of it other than the seeing the ship.


**Bashar:** Many of the typical beam ups that occur frequently in your dream states are simply for the purpose of realignment, for the purpose of reassessment, for the purpose of redirecting yourself, for knowing what steps you wish to take from this point forward, for gaining a little bit of clarity and insight, for gaining an overview or a broader perspective of what it is you have within yourself planned to do next. Okay. That is what they are typically for. It gives you a little bit of a higher perspective.

**Asker:** Uh being that it was Pleiadian and am I somehow connected to Pleiadian energy more so than some other?

**Bashar:** In a sense yes. In a sense although there are other mixtures in there to some degree. You can say for right now they are more functionally your guides than any other particular species might be.

**Asker:** Well I I've been reading a lot of the Pleiadians um and I have your energy to contrast it with and the Pleiadians seem to concentrate a little bit more on some of the negative aspects of some of these other extraterrestrials sort of creating a uh to be cautious. Not so much cautious but to be aware that these other energies do exist.

**Bashar:** Yes. Well we all have different jobs to do.

**Asker:** Oh okay. But I noticed that you yourself do not really focus much.

**Bashar:** That is my job.

**Asker:** One other one other question here. Uh I'm a little confused when it comes to processing as you say. Yes. Uh some of the energies that we don't prefer that we find within ourselves. Yes. Uh I know that one way to do it is to focus your attention on what you do prefer. Yes. But uh at the same time you must be willing to feel and experience what it is that may be within you that you don't prefer.

**Bashar:** Oh okay. So what would what would be a good say process to do?

**Asker:** Let's say you're experiencing some energies that you don't prefer. Get in touch with them, experience them, feel them. Don't deny them. Don't shut them down. Don't avoid them. Don't intellectualize them. Get into them. Feel them. Find out where they came from.

**Bashar:** That's what I do is intellectualize them, try to understand them. And so but you cannot understand them unless you experience them. You can only understand by experiencing. Do not be afraid to experience them. Experience them is what will allow you to get in touch with where they came from, when you bought into them, when you plugged them into your makeup, and why they are there, why they no longer have to be there, and then you can let them go.

**Asker:** So you sort of ask yourself some questions. You have to be very honest with yourself. You have to be willing to feel who you really are. Who you are has to be all right even if it's what you don't prefer. You have to love who you are before you can change. Okay. And that means feeling everything, experiencing it all, being willing to truly experience every sensation that you have bought into even if you don't prefer it.

**Bashar:** Well let's say that you are maybe uh afraid as you say a feeling. What would be a good I so say that that's a good process to feel. But let's say that you've got some beliefs uh some ask a question. Yeah, how can you be afraid to feel? Isn't fear a feeling?

**Asker:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Well if you're feeling fear, you felt one of the most negative ones you can feel. Everything else should be a piece of cake.

**Asker:** Well now you mentioned as far as uh feeling of fear um I am playing with you a little bit. When you say I am afraid to feel, what you're actually saying is I'm afraid to be afraid because you haven't actually felt the fear yet either. Right?

**Bashar:** Okay. Well I'd love let's say I uh want to feel this fear.

**Asker:** You say if you are ready you will allow yourself to feel it. So I'm I'm wondering well am I ready?

**Bashar:** Well being ready is simply a matter of having the intention and being willing to go through it, knowing that it's really no big deal, knowing that you'll be just fine, knowing that you're indestructible, knowing that it's going to serve you in the way that you say you want it to serve you, doing it anyway even though it's fear causing, even though it will rattle you, even though it may make you feel like you don't want to feel right now. Allowing yourself to get in touch with why you may already have a fear, why you may have a feeling, will allow you then from that point forward to determine whether or not you ever need to have that feeling or fear again. But only after you go through it because as long as you deny it, you are keeping yourself generally speaking at the same place, never going ahead. That's the block.

**Asker:** Ah, the block. Yes. That's the block. Being afraid to feel. And that's the paradox is being afraid of being afraid because many of you as we have just said when you say I'm afraid to feel, you're actually not even feeling the fear of being afraid to feel, right? You're just again intellectualizing it.

**Bashar:** Perhaps one of the easiest ways for many of you to allow yourselves a safe place to get into the feeling is to go into what is called improvisation or acting, because then you are surrounded by a supportive group of individuals who are cheering you on. Yes, feel, feel, feel, feel, feel. Get it all out. Or to go into what might be called some therapeutic sessions where again you are encouraged to feel and the primary consideration is that you are told and you know that you develop the trust that you are in a safe place to do so. Many of you will not allow yourselves to feel the things you really need to feel because you don't feel safe in doing so. You need to create a safe place for yourself to do these things. So use your imagination and use your inventiveness to either create some form of therapeutic or interactive or improvisational place where you are supported and cheered on by a group of your fellow beings to feel, feel, feel, feel, feel. Then you will get used to it. Then it will become easier for you to feel wherever you are. You will know safe within yourself no matter where you are, whether you have a supportive group of beings around you or not. That can be one way that you can break the ice.


### Multiple Paths and Following Excitement

**Asker:** Hi Bashar and to you good day. I I have some confusion I'd like cleared in your confusion. Please speak up and be bold so that all may share in your confusion. What a joy. Oh yes. I have several roads ahead of me to take, several roads to take. Uh-huh. I see. Um, I started a process in Wichita, Kansas, which is my home, um to work with ADD children, hyperactive children, and we have some interesting things started in Wichita. I come out to California here, yes. And I find that Wichita is very dull in comparison to what's going on here. Dull, dull. Yeah. Uh because I am being brought into contact with many wonderful new age people doing some great things.

**Bashar:** So you are saying that you have discovered something that is more aligned with what excites you?

**Asker:** Uh I think they both excite me very very much. Both yes. Both both ideas both places both things.

**Bashar:** Um so there is an overall idea that excites you of which these both things and both places are representative examples within the excitement.

**Asker:** That's right. Different methodologies for different places and times. That's correct. All right.

**Bashar:** Okay. The Wichita mentality is not new age. That's all right and sure. But you know there's tremendous need to bring some of this new age concept into there in form of machinery things which will help our civilization for the children who are in troubles at this point. Uh I know I can do the same thing as that out here, yes. But I also am being drawn to those who are in the entertainment field and there I can be of assistance to them as they move to the higher states of consciousness.

**Asker:** All right, well thank you very much for telling me what it is that you wish to do.

**Bashar:** Oh gee, I wish to do so many things. It's like there isn't enough time.

**Asker:** Oh yes there is. Anything that is really representative of the thing that excites you the most will always bring with it exactly enough time for you to be able to do it. If there isn't enough time, then you will find it really isn't something that excites you very much and there is no need for you to do it that way. Any anything that is really part and partially resembling or representative of the thing that really excites you will always bring exactly the right amount of time for you to be able to do it. And even if you think you have to do it right now, that may not always be the case.

**Asker:** You know, yeah. Well that's what I'm aware of. There must be some time schedule in here that there is timing. Yes. I don't quite know how to facilitate.

**Bashar:** Oh but yes you do. All you need to do again is keep it simple and act at any given moment on the thing you're most capable of acting on that excites you the most. That will lead you into the proper place and timing automatically, synchronistically. You don't have to work all the details out ahead of time.

**Asker:** Okay. So listen to that phrase: work the details out. How many of you say this? All the work the details out ahead of time. Of course you don't have enough time. You're working them out ahead of time. Oh well, when you live in the moment, be in the moment where the time is. If it is anywhere, it's right here and now.

**Bashar:** Okay. But when you make major shifts, you've got a lot of things you have to get accomplished. Of course. But again, you can relax. Listen, are you listening?

**Asker:** I'm listening.

**Bashar:** You can relax into the knowledge, into the feeling, into the understanding that all of those things will be accomplished in perfect timing if you act at any moment on the thing you are capable of acting on at that moment that is representative of the thing that excites you the most. They will all fall into perfect timing.

**Asker:** Um you are worrying yourself a schedule. Look at all the things I have now forced myself to have to do.

**Bashar:** It's all one thing. It's all part and parcel of the thing you say is exciting. So therefore by definition they have to fit and they will fit. And the things that don't, don't belong. They'll just fall away. They will just fall away.

**Asker:** Okay. Many times you think it will take you 558 steps to get somewhere when in fact it might only really take you three. Okay. Now would you prefer 558 steps or would you prefer three? Either is fine. I am not invalidating either. Sometimes 558 steps is a wonderful way to go. But if you prefer three, then three is all it really will take you.

**Bashar:** Understand?

**Asker:** Yeah. I'm ready for three then.

**Bashar:** Let the ones go that don't need to be there. You do not have to assume that all the steps your mind may fear must be there are really the steps you have to take. Just take the first one. Take the one that excites you the most. Take the one that excites you the most that you are capable of doing something about. All the others will make themselves apparent one step at a time in the moment, in the now, with a very general open-ended plan. Let yourself fill in the details as you create them as you go. Understand?

**Asker:** I understand. Does that help you?

**Bashar:** Yes, that does. Thank you.

**Asker:** Well thank you very much. All right. I'll say allow us to continue with.

---

### Question 7: Painting of a Craft

**Asker:** Sharing. Hi Bashar and good day to you. Last session I had the opportunity to talk with our guest speaker about a painting that I got in the Soviet Union which I've brought to share with everyone today. I have a couple questions about it. All right. One is what do the silver or metallic balls represent on this on the uh edge of it that are usually in some craft?

**Bashar:** Devices to guide the direction of the flow of the electromagnetic field around the craft. They are in that sense then impellers. Do you understand? Yes. They fire, so to speak, not real fire. They ignite, they initiate the way the direction of the flow of the toroidal stream of electromagnetic energy moves around the craft. They are to some degree also emitters of that energy to act as a stabilizing force around the rim of the craft for the dispersion of that energy so that it remains coherent.

**Asker:** Uh is this a mother craft and can you give us the actual dimensions of it?

**Bashar:** It is a rather large size craft. It is not what would be some of the large mother shapes. You are here looking at something that is several hundred yards in diameter. Um, the largest mothercraft or city ships can be several miles long. Some of them are spherical, many of them are cylindrical.

**Asker:** The uh in the beam of intention which we discussed um first of well the main thing I have to ask about the craft is or the painting rather is uh we discussed that it was a gateway for me or a door to communicating. Why was I fortunate to be blessed with this painting? Is there a purpose that it's supposed to serve for me?

**Bashar:** That will have to be up to your own personal understanding and discovery. Obviously there is a connection for you and you alone in this way that you can utilize this particular combination of vibrations of pigments of coloration of presentation for your unlocking of imagination in very specific ways. This is a very personal gift and I cannot go into the idea of the specifics in public.

Many of the people here and myself included are able to feel an energy field when we uh yes it can work for many people and it is up to you to determine whether or not you will allow other individuals to be able to utilize this as a gateway or a catalyst as well. It is very catalytic in many ways and can create a great degree of inspiration for many people, turning many keys, unlocking many levels of the imagination and insight into different dimensional consciousnesses and receiving levels of information.

As a point of clarification, now that the painting has been visually inputed into the channel's consciousness, the flash matrix, the flurry of activity at the bottom of the craft though there are filaments there, those are not fully literally representative of the physiological filaments. That is an artistic interpretation of the energy that surrounds the bottom of the craft during certain maneuvers. But they are the projected result of the flash matrix. You in a sense would understand that the flash matrix is quite hidden by the flurry of energy represented in the painting coming from the matrix itself.

The filaments are much finer than that. They do not physiologically look like that. But if you were sensitive enough to see the actual energy given off by the flash matrix, you might see the energy as it has been interpreted in the painting along the bottom of the craft that way. You understand as the feathering that you described, right? These are sheets of energy in a sense overlapping, ever vibrating, ever fluctuating.

The craft is going through a certain maneuver and that is why the energy has piled up or concentrated around what you would call the bottom of the craft in that way. Although understand that there really is no bottom or top to the craft per se. Where was the craft maneuvering to? Going from one dimension to another. Shifting. This is the reason that there are ghost images around the bottom of the rim of the spheres that dot the rim of the craft. It has been caught in mid vibrational, mid dimensional shift.

And uh the filaments at the top of the craft is more a direct representation of some of the electromagnetic or electric energy within the electromagnetic toroidal field that we originally described. That is a more literal representation of the electric arcing that can occur in the field due to the high amplification of the energy.

**Asker:** We discussed the concept of the beam out of the top of the painting being the beam of intention. Yes. I'm having some trouble manifesting my intention and I was wondering if you can give me some feedback and see if I'm being blocked in some way.

**Bashar:** Do you feel your being uh in not out of my chakra or any physical manifestation? Will you imagine the idea in the following way? Let's keep this very simple. Let's start with the simplest analogy. Is there anything in your hand?

**Asker:** No.

**Bashar:** Can you put an object in your hand from your pocket?

**Asker:** Um any object will do. I I have a ring I could put in my hand.

**Bashar:** Put the ring in your hand.

**Asker:** Okay. It is now.

**Bashar:** How difficult was it for you to do that?

**Asker:** Very simple.

**Bashar:** Because all of your intention, all of your thoughts, all of your desire, all of your actions, all of your emotions, everything in your being had the intention to do that and only that. You did not question it. You did not add any definitions to it. You did not qualify it. You did not judge it. You simply had the intention and were the idea and you accomplished it. This is a simple analogy for what we mean by the purity of the intention that we are talking about.

You simply do. You have the understanding, you have the thought, you have the emotion, you have the desire, you simply move, you act in that direction to the best of your ability, to the best of the opportunities you have attracted in your life in the direction of the thing that excites you. You act. You reach. It is your will.

I will now suggest something which can aid and assist many of you in understanding this concept of intention. From time to time again, we will choose to recommend a work that is in existence on your planet that is the creation of other beings, beings from other levels, other dimensions of all that is in connection with beings on your planet. This exists in the form of a book and will clarify your understanding greatly. It is called "The Right Use of Will." Have you heard of this?

**Asker:** No. Who's the author?

**Bashar:** You will find it. Find it in whatever of those bookstores or whatever individuals are around you that are aware of this work that cater to those understandings of channeled material. Read "The Right Use of Will." In fact, I will now go so far as to make this suggestion. Anything that has ever been discussed in these sessions at any time since their inception eight of your years ago now in some sense can be clarified and can require that if there is to be any further understanding, if there is to be any clarification, if there is to be any further continuation of the concepts and the principles that have been discussed, a basis for understanding these things, a basis for being able to continue these conversations will be for you before you speak with us to read that book, "Right Use of Will."

This will clarify many understandings within you, open up many doorways within you, and allow you to see, to put it in your colloquial terms, where we have been coming from, what we are talking about, what our intention is, and what we mean by many of the things that we have discussed, by many of the terms that may have been confusing to many of you. Do not allow yourselves at this time to become confused by what might sound to your ears like religious references. This is not the intention of the work. Simply feel the clear intention, relate to the clear intention of what you understand. There may be some terminologies that will sound religious to you, but this is not the intention of the work. Do you understand?

**Asker:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Read this and we will talk further when you are a different understanding.

**Asker:** Can I ask you about something that relates to your discussion about time and past lives?

**Bashar:** If you wish.

**Asker:** Um we once discussed recently about the concept of my using past life hypnotherapy to discover some roots of some problems I had and I did this and I found some interesting results. But um I kept wondering how much because I'm a writer how much of these scenarios were coming from my imagination and how much were from actual lives that I have lived or am living simultaneously and how I could differentiate them because one of the instances I dealt with.

**Bashar:** Thank you. At this point the strongest thing that we would wish for you to understand is that there is no difference. Can you allow yourself to accept that as a possibility?

**Asker:** Yes.

**Bashar:** That there is no difference between what you would call your imagination and a literal past life. For everything you can imagine is in some dimension real. And if you are imagining it, you obviously have a reason and a purpose to imagine it and therefore in that moment you are making a connection to it. And you can create whatever experiential connection to it you feel you must need to understand the idea of the total consciousness that you are. Even in the moment that you might make a connection instantaneously to what your imagination has concocted, in that moment it becomes a real life, a real section, a real segment, a real extension of the total consciousness that you are, a real experience. And therefore it is no different fundamentally than the idea of having had a real past life. It is all existent now. It is all real depending upon what you deem is the experience you need to recognize yourself.

We would therefore request that you cease these differentiations for they do not serve you in the way you wish to be served. You understand?

**Asker:** Yes. But then perhaps my question should be that if I'm able to be aware of these scenarios in whatever method they come to me, shouldn't that alleviate the problem that I'm trying to deal with?

**Bashar:** No. For just being aware of it does not mean that you are using the experience in the way that it can serve you. Again, the idea is a matter of mentalizing as opposed to allowing yourself to feel, to be truly in touch and experience the scenario. When you experience the scenario that your imagination has concocted, that's when it is a life. When you experience it, you may only need to experience portions of it. You may not necessarily need to experience the entire continuity that your imagination comes up with, only segments of it. But experience it you must.

And even in the experiencing of it, it may lead you to other things that will eventually unfold an understanding. It may not bring you instantaneous recognition. But the idea is to trust and move in the direction of the thing that you are drawn to, for that will eventually unfold in the total scheme of your life all the understanding that you need.

And remember again, at any given moment, regardless, regardless of the level of understanding you think you have, you can still do whatever you want. Do you understand?

**Asker:** So it's just putting my intention to solving that problem and that will solve it?

**Bashar:** It is your intention to live what you wish to live that will bring you the opportunity to solve the problem. If you use the opportunity, you will feel the change. Does that help you?

**Asker:** Yeah, I think I need to mull it over but it's it's getting there. All right, thank you very much.

**Bashar:** Enjoy your mulling.

---

### Question 8: Spaceships and Personal Experience

**Asker:** Hello Bashar, how are you and good day to you. Um are our spaceships necessary for some civilizations?

**Bashar:** They seem to be right now for yours in some senses. For ours they serve many functions. Now we all know we are all doing this with our consciousness, but the idea is still that we evolve. We have a different reflection or relationship to the concept of matter. And thus sometimes you still will find in many civilizations, even though they may empirically understand that their consciousness is taking them from place to place, or in all reality that place to place is created within the consciousness, it still may be a matter of a truer, more honest representation of the belief systems of that society to still project that understanding in the form of material craft. It still serves us even if it only gives you a point of reference to relate to us within, to project the idea of our ability to move from one dimension to another by the utilization of what you would recognize to be a physical craft. Because it is easier for you to relate to that concept as a civilization.

**Asker:** Makes sense. Um roughly 13 years ago I was uh in a hotel room in Garden City, Kansas and I was reading some metaphysical books and on two consecutive days had uh kind of experience. The first day was very pleasant uh even though I was momentarily paralyzed laying on my bed uh and also my eyes uh wouldn't open. I felt a presence come into the room and when I was able to open my eyes uh I saw light dance uh up and around the ceiling and that was very nice. And then when I got bored with it it disappeared. And then the next day when you acclimated to the energy it disappeared.

**Bashar:** Um no it seemed like when I lost uh lost interest in it it disappeared.

**Asker:** Yes, because you acclimated to the energy. The idea is that in that visitation you were given a level of energy to rise to. When you matched it, you no longer had any interest in it because it was no longer different from you.

**Asker:** Okay. So now we're going to day two. Yes. Same thing, same thing. Um I don't know if I need to add this but uh but you will anyway. Of course I will. Oh thank you. You're welcome. So what happens is I I hear a key in the door. This happened both days. A key in the door even though I knew I had the maid's lock on. Uh I feel footsteps. I hear footsteps going into the bathroom. Whatever this was felt the need to wash its hands. I heard the water go on, turn off. I heard the towel rack squeak. Uh then I heard the footsteps come into my room. And on the second day instead of my eyes being able to open and see the light, uh the footsteps came up to where I was laying and um became very threatening. I heard a loud crinkling near my ear which has always bothered me and then I really felt uh I felt as though I was going to be strangled by this.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. One moment. How we feel about doctors? They scare me to death. Yes. One moment. All right. When you lay yourself down to sleep, allow yourself to utilize the following word: J. J. Repeat that. J, J. JJ, j, j, j. Yes, you may use JJ or J. Either is fine. J works better. Thank you.

Say when you fall to sleep: J. J. I am centered in love and trust. I am centered in love and trust. I am supported in warmth and understanding. I am supported in warmth and understanding. The dark side is my friend. I will only gain strength from it. The dark side is my friend. I shall only gain strength from it. Even as it allows me to express the light that I know I am. Even as it allows me to express the light that I know I am.

That will do it. You will begin a dialogue that will allow you to move from the fear side of that experience to the joy side of that experience and will allow all the negativity to begin to drop away and will not allow any of the negativity to be able to see you. You understand?

**Asker:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Use that term J. You will find out why later.

**Asker:** All right, good enough for me. One last quick question. Yes. I have this amazing rare beautiful dog that has come into my life. Um do you have any comment on that? She was a stray that I found as a sign of service.

**Bashar:** Yes, very strong. One moment. One moment. Are there blue eyes on this animal?

**Asker:** No, she's a brown girl.

**Bashar:** Look as if there were blue coming from the eyes. If you wish direct communication, anytime you envision that there are blue coming from the eyes, you will be in direct communication and allow the animal to serve you. Your dreams should be becoming very vivid. It is a sign of service and it is a help.

What have you named? What have you been told is the name of the animal?

**Asker:** Uh she had no name. I gave her the name of kismet.

**Bashar:** All right, good enough. I hoped you'd approve. It is not that I approve, it is simply that I recognize you know why she is there. Use what we have suggested. There is much that has to be done within your dream communications before we can elaborate on this particular thing. Do not mean to sound so mysterious, but you have set it up in this particular way mysteriously because there are certain kinds of discovering and unfoldings and treasures that must be found by you in your own unique way before we are allowed to comment further and in more detail about this particular interaction and incident. But we have given you what we can. We thank you. Pleasant dreams. J.

---

### Question 9: Terror, Nothingness, and Native American History

**Asker:** Sharing. Hello Bashar and to you good day. It's interesting that you mentioned "The Right Use of Will" because the thing I was going to ask you about speak up, speak up be bold. Thing that I'm going to ask you about uh first happened when I was reading it. Yes. Um I discovered that I had this terror inside of me so so I went into the terror.

**Bashar:** All right, very good. Congratulations. And uh what did you discover?

**Asker:** I became a point of consciousness uh floating in a vast nothingness. Um it wasn't exactly black and the two other times that I've gone into it it's been more like a dark gray. All right. But there's nothing else there. Me.

**Bashar:** Yes. And uh how does it feel to be all that is?

**Asker:** Um it well it felt scary when I was on the outside but when I became that point of consciousness it felt wonderful.

**Bashar:** All right, thank you very much. And um and I can never stay in it for very long.

**Asker:** That's all right. It is not that you are supposed to stay in it that way. It is that you are able now to bring that experience through in the way you have chosen to be in this particular aspect of all that is and use that in your physical life on a daily basis. Just staying in that state wouldn't allow you to do much.

**Bashar:** No, except collect dust.

**Asker:** I could move. Yes, could move in all directions but there wasn't anything else going on.

**Bashar:** You are going to be. You are on the verge of learning. You are on the verge of learning. You are about to really see what it means to move with intention. Be prepared. You're going to be astonished. Okay. And that's all right. You will also find that when you do it, you will laugh and it will release a strong laughter within you.

**Asker:** Good. Anything else?

**Bashar:** Yes. I have one other question. Um I've always been puzzled by the fact that when the Europeans came to America and brought their diseases with them, yes, that actually many many more Indians died of disease than died from battle. Yes. And I wondered what why would so many people want to consciously all depart at the same time?

**Asker:** There are many cycles that are involved in the idea of your history. There are many remnants of Atlantis involved in your east coast Native Americans. They had thus drawn to themselves some of their fears and did not maintain their integrity by maintaining what might have been the physical separation that was necessary until they got in touch with those fears. They allowed themselves to be devastated in that way to take themselves through the fears that they knew eventually they would have to face that would come back to their children's children's children's children's children from Atlantean times with the rejoining of the western civilization and the Native American remnants of Atlantis.

**Bashar:** Okay. Was that also true in Peru and South America?

**Asker:** In some senses, but for many different reasons. There is far more history on your planet and far more denial on your planet in those histories than you already know.

**Bashar:** I believe that. But it is now in the process of reintegration.

**Asker:** Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.

---

### Question 10: Illuminati and Zeta Reticulum

**Asker:** Sharing. Hi Bashar and good day to you. Happy to talk with you again and ecstatic to speak to all of you as well. Um do you want to talk about Zeta Reticulum? Maybe, maybe.

Okay. The uh a session or two ago you said that the Illuminati was a front in a sense for Zeta.

**Bashar:** The concept of the Illuminati is a projection of the combined consciousness of elements of your own society, especially in what you would call some of your governmental sections. They they are agents for the Illuminati? A gentar? Let me finish. Okay. Thank you.

I'll put it this way. It is a screen being used and projected by certain individuals to allow you to focus on miscommunication and misdirection, to allow you to think that there is more power there than there is. Since the idea was created, since the idea did at one time in a sense exist, it was thought that it could be utilized in your modern day and age to create more sense of suppression and confusion.

Understand this. If there is a true Illuminati, you wouldn't know they existed. You would never hear about them. You would never hear the word. So Illuminati is the outward level of many things that are kept deep within many individuals, within many organizations, and are utilizing this concept of Illuminati as an outward face, an outward false front, an outward facade to misdirect people's attention away from where the real individuals are.

**Asker:** Yeah. And away from people's self-empowerment.

**Bashar:** Yeah. That the the Church of Satan is out under the same category in a sense.

**Asker:** Let's put it this way. It is used by many people for the same purpose. Although there are many factions involved in that idea that are quite different from that as well.

**Bashar:** Okay. So people who get involved with being agents of the Church of Satan or agents of the Illuminati or agents of any agencies of these front type organizations get sucked into the roles in these agencies through the it will depend upon the individual. Some individuals are simply playing around in their dark side for a while because they enjoy it.

**Asker:** Yeah. The the lure though, the bait is sort of a sense of power over.

**Bashar:** Yes. That's the cheap sense of power instead of power within. Yes. Power within is the true power. And then the idea that you can gain power over somebody uh is the lure and then the snare. Um how they get hooked in is they get denoted as a uh an official in this agency and they just get trapped in because we have a lot of people running around in government agencies and Church of Satan probably and Illuminati thinking that they actually are these individuals with power over.

**Asker:** Yes. It is a shadow play. Yeah. A very creative, very inventive, very exciting shadow play. And what is the benefit from? Now I recognize that the Zeta come and take over worlds. Not with military conflict but with not take over worlds.

**Bashar:** Okay. Bad. That is an Illuminati statement. Bad, bad choice of words.

**Asker:** No, perfect choice of words. Perfectly representative of what you are talking about in terms of the shadow play. But for our for our understanding communication to get the true meaning of it.

**Bashar:** They they superimpose their a belief system upon a world that they are. What is their benefit? I don't even understand their benefit. They're what? Why are they playing?

**Asker:** All right. All right. All right. All right. First of all, again there are many more levels to this than we can discuss in the period of time that we have in this interaction. However, if you are willing to understand that this is an oversimplification, there are things they are getting out of this for their own society. There are things that you have they need. There are things they have you need, so to speak.

Now the idea is that they do not impose their belief system upon society. They use the belief systems already in the society to be able to hide what they are doing. If that's the way the society is set up, they are only following your game plan.

**Bashar:** Oh, so they use religion and they use our society is based on the concept or has been in the negative side based on the concept of the shadow play and the removal of self-empowerment. So that's the tool that they use because that's the strongest level of your society with regard to what you believe is truly representative of power. So the shadow play.

To recognize this shadow play, you would look at artificial entities. Um yes, artificial entities that are maybe corporations or uh yes these are fronts. These are not true sovereigns or true individuals. All of these things and they have the hive mentality backing them. The civil in a sense civil or municipal type of.

**Asker:** Yes. This is an oversimplification but for the stream we are following and only in one direction.

**Bashar:** Yes. Okay, thank you.

**Asker:** Can I ask something about who I was talking to last time? Uh what was what I was talking with last time?

**Bashar:** How many are you talking about? The association. Yeah, the the galactic entities. There was uh I don't know how many species were present in that conglomerate or in that transmission.

**Asker:** There are approximately in that transmission 357 combined species.

**Bashar:** That's neat cuz we're losing a species a day on the planet almost and it's neat that we encountered all those that one day two weeks ago.

**Asker:** We thank you for allowing us to share the reflection to you that nothing is really ever lost but that this isn't an opportunity to restabilize yourselves and enjoy the fruits of all of the different diversity that does exist within the consciousness of your Earth.

**Bashar:** Yes.

---

### Question 11: Feeling Muddy and Decision-Making

**Asker:** Sharing. Hi and to you good day. Thanks.

**Bashar:** Um you are welcome.

**Asker:** I feel like um yes I'm a star with this microphone but you are a star. You are all stars. Thank you. Um but what I wanted to ask you about is I feel like in my life right now I feel kind of muddy. Muddy. Yeah. Emotionally. All right. And um I'd like to um do two things. One is make a decision about I have a decision to make and I'm doubting my intention. It's about going away to school. Going away to school. Yes. Yes. This is something you find exciting or no?

**Bashar:** Um why are you going? What is the reason that you have created for going away to school?

**Asker:** Because it's a big world and I want to see it.

**Bashar:** Because it's a big world and you want to see it. And all right. And yes I also feel like part of who I am is an artist and I want to have a chance to really focus on that. All right. And this is the most exciting way that you feel you can do this?

**Asker:** When I made the decision it was the most originally it was the most exciting way and now I'm wondering if it's I don't feel that excited about it.

**Bashar:** And I'm all right. Then what has your imagination come up as an alternative and more exciting way in which you can realize your dreams?

**Asker:** Well what I'm wondering is maybe I just need to give myself permission to get excited about it again cuz it's got put on hold for a long time maybe.

**Bashar:** So it might be possible that you are holding yourself off from your excitement. But many times you will also find that sometimes those avenues, those directions, were only created because you assumed that it had to be done that way. So you allowed yourself to be excited about it. But now you might be finding that you really would be more excited about doing it another way. It is up to you to determine which of these two ways is actually happening for you.

**Asker:** Well I can play for a minute with um different exciting thoughts. When you say artist what are you saying? What kind of artist?

**Bashar:** Painting and a little bit of writing. Painting and a little bit of writing. Yeah, little bit of writing with a lot of humor in it. With a lot of humor in it. All right. Little bit of writing with a lot of humor in it. Dash of this, touch of that. All right. What kind of paintings do you enjoy doing? What medium do you like to work in?

**Asker:** Or mediums. Paint um like some acrylic and some oil painting. All right. Are you doing paintings now?

**Bashar:** No.

**Asker:** When did you do paintings last?

**Bashar:** Uh maybe about 9 months ago.

**Asker:** When will you paint again?

**Bashar:** I don't know.

**Asker:** You're not excited about painting.

**Bashar:** It feels more like it's my life role rather than what I'm necessarily all that excited about.

**Asker:** What are you excited about then? What are some of the things that excite you? What is a thing that excites you?

**Bashar:** Dog sledding.

**Asker:** Dog sledding. All right. When will you go dog sledding?

**Bashar:** I don't know.

**Asker:** Why not? You just said it excited you. Why aren't you scurrying around to find out where you can go dog sledding as soon as you possibly can? If that's what excites you, I would think you'd be out and around looking for an opportunity to do what excites you. Why aren't you?

**Bashar:** Takes me a long time to get to the thing that excites me and by that time I'm maybe not so interested in it anymore.

**Asker:** Ah, now I see the long bridge, an arduous process you are creating between conception and the doing of the thing. It takes a long time to get to a place where I can do what excites me.

The point again is that if you have a goal that excites you more than anything else, the easiest and quickest way to get there is to act on whatever opportunity presents itself in the present that you can do something about that is the most exciting thing at that moment you can do. Knowing that because it is the most exciting thing you can do at that moment, then by definition it must be connected to whatever that exciting goal is that you think is out there.

So if you simply do all of the things in any given moment that are the most exciting things you can do, whether they appear to be connected or not to the goal you say is exciting, you will have so much fun in the meantime that you will not care how long it takes. And by not caring how long it takes and by having so much fun, it will seem to happen like that.

Your difficulty is in assuming that you have to be doing something to get to that exciting goal that would entail doing something that is not exciting. You have within you the definition that says: well yes this thing is exciting, but the steps it takes to get there are not. That is incorrect. There is nothing that you ever have to do aside from the thing that excites you the most at any given moment. Do it with integrity.

If you have a goal out there that you say is the exciting thing but you see no way to act on it, you see no way to get to it, then do whatever is the thing you can do that is the most exciting thing you can imagine doing at that moment. It is the excitement of the doing of the thing that will get you there, not whether it appears to be physically connected, not whether it appears to have anything at all to do with that thing. It is the excitement of the moment that will get you there the quickest.

Do you understand this concept?

**Bashar:** I feel like I do.

**Asker:** You feel like you do? All right. Well how about acting like you do? How about acting like you do? If in any given moment dog sledding is the most exciting thing that you could think of to do, act like that's true. If that really is the most exciting thing, then it would encompass your thoughts, it would completely absorb you. You would be able to think of nothing else other than finding out how does one go dog sledding right now, who's dog sledding right now, and how can I dog sled with them? Make a call, find the ad, call the Dog Sledding Association of Earth. Make it up as you go along, but do it.

It is the process itself that you will learn from. And it may be that the thing that excites you may never even have to be fulfilled because you may find that in going through the process, all of a sudden the excitement will change. That's okay because that means you got out of the process the thing you needed to get out of it. Many times it is simply the taking of the action in that direction in and of itself that is all you needed to get or learn from the process, not the completion of the thing that attracted you.

Understand, you're a very sneaky group of people and you will trick yourselves in any way you have to to get you to move. So sometimes you will dangle the bait out there and you will make the leap for it and all of a sudden the bait will disappear and you go: well that wasn't fair. Until you understand, until you understand that you had such a good time in making the leap that it was making the leap at all that was the purpose. The bait was there not the getting of the bait. It was the making of the leap that gave you the joy that propelled you, that enlivened you, that awakened you. And that might have been the total purpose of the bait's existence, not the grabbing of the bait.

If it stays there after the leap, you'll grab it because that was your intention. But if it moves, understand that it was the process itself that served you. Joy in that, revel in that, and understand that you did what you needed to do. And wherever your excitement has shifted, leap in that direction and you will be true to the process of who you are and what you need to discover and where you're going and the fulfillment of your goals.

Is this making some sense?

**Bashar:** Yeah, it makes complete sense.

**Asker:** Uh yes I feel like um I may still want to go to school. What I really didn't want to do is write the grant proposals before then.

**Bashar:** You don't necessarily have to. This is also important to understand. Many times you are unwilling to do certain things that people say are required of you because you assume as other people tell you that you have to do it in a certain way that's not exciting for you. You can attract a way that is exciting for you, whether it involves the method specifically that they say you must do, because sometimes it might because that might be the only avenue your society has created for you to do that. But if it is, then you will be able to still find a way to do it that's exciting. Or you will find an alternate route that doesn't involve that particular methodology but which will be an exciting way and you'll still achieve what you want to achieve.

Do you understand? You don't have to have the assumption that you have to do it in the way everyone says you have to do it, or that even if you do it that way, that that way has to be boring and unexciting. You can attract yourself the way that that would be exciting for you. Otherwise it wouldn't serve the purpose.

**Bashar:** I can eliminate the drudgery.

**Asker:** Of course. You don't even have to attract it at all.

**Bashar:** Well that's I think that's the thing I didn't quite get before. Of course, for everything that excites you, there is an exciting way to do it. Again, your society is in the habit of saying the doing of the exciting thing, the getting the chance to do the exciting thing, somehow is separate from how to get there. And how to get there, everyone knows, is not as exciting. You're separating those things. The getting there is a part of the doing of that thing and therefore can be just as exciting.

**Asker:** Is that also the answer to my other question about being muddy? That's how it feels.

**Bashar:** Say it again.

**Asker:** Um I feel like my emotions have been pretty muddy and I think I have felt yes ripped off.

**Bashar:** You are clouding yourself with definitions that do not serve you, that you think you have to adhere to. You do not have a clear definition of the way you want to do it because you don't believe that your definition is equal power with all the other definitions that you have been fed. Spit them up. My definitions? Spit up the definitions that don't serve you.

**Asker:** Oh okay. Let them go. Discover and create the definition that you believe serves you. Say: all right, here's my goal. This is what excites me. This is what I want to do. Keep it simple. Keep it simple. Don't cloud it, don't muddy it with definitions you think have to be there in order to define that reality. Very often that's not true.

Keep the basic wish simple. The thing that excites you: I am an artist, that excites me. I want to paint, that excites me. I want to go to school, that excites me. How do I get there? I don't know, but I'm going to attract an exciting way. That's exactly what it needs to be for me. Period.

You understand? That's all the definitions you need. Then you start attracting the opportunities. And as the opportunities are presented to you on a silver platter by the universe, you say: I like that one. I don't prefer that one. That one excites me. That does not excite me. Therefore the ones that excite me are the ones that will work for me. The ones that don't excite me are the ones that will work for someone else.

Keep it simple. Make a choice. Act in that direction with intention. Does this clear the waters up a little bit?

**Bashar:** Yes. Um, yes. Um, yes. Um, if I'm still a little wishy-washy about going and I often am.

**Asker:** Maybe you need a rinse cycle.

**Bashar:** Then perhaps you need to dry out.

**Asker:** Okay. I just want to know whether being wishy-washy you can still do things and not worry.

**Bashar:** Yes. Okay. Thank you. Because if you still do things and not worry while you're being wishy-washy, then you're not being wishy-washy. But I understand what you mean. Yes, I am wishy-washy. I think I'll do this. I think I'll do that. If you're going to be wishy-washy, then yes, all right. Be wishy-washy fully.

**Asker:** Thank you. I I'll do that.

**Bashar:** All we are saying is that whatever you choose to be, you can choose to be anything. Whatever you choose to be, be that thing fully because you chose it. If you don't prefer it, be something else. But whatever you choose to be at that moment, be it fully. If it's wishy-washy, be wishy-washy fully. Don't deny that you're wishy-washy.

**Asker:** Yes, I'm wishy-washy and I hate being wishy. No, you don't hate being wishy-washy because you chose to be wishy-washy. Yes, I'm wishy-washy. This is fun. So this is what it's like to be muddy and wishy-washy. Wow, wow. This is great fun to be wishy-washy. I can see why so many people choose to be wishy-washy. Well now I've experienced being wishy-washy or have I? I don't know. I'm not sure. But yes, now I have decided that I will choose to be something else and so I will. Period.

**Bashar:** Does this help?

**Asker:** Yes, and I enjoyed it too.

**Bashar:** Well thank you very much, because that really was the whole point. Thank you.

---

### Question 12: Physical Illness and Healing

**Asker:** Sharing. Hello Bashar and good day to you. I want to thank you very much first of all for your book "The Blueprint." It's incredible and very helpful and for all the people I know that are reading it. We're very very grateful for the information.

**Bashar:** All right. Thank you.

**Asker:** I personally am experiencing a physical illness and I wanted to know if I may call upon my multi-dimensional selves to heal this body and how to go about it. Do you have any suggestions?

**Bashar:** Yes, you can do that. It can be done. I do not at this time have time to explore all the different belief systems within you that might be preventing you from allowing yourself to do that. But it can be done. It can be done.

One of the suggestions we have already made will be of some assistance to you in terms of the information in the book "The Right Use of Will." Do understand all disease is a holding of the self out of one's center. But you can learn from it. If it is the way you think you have to learn something, you will create the disease so you can learn and so you can release. Acknowledge that you have created it as you do. Don't deny it. Don't be in denial about it. You can do it. It can be done.

Right now we would suggest that you take a deep breath. As deep as you can. Again. Slowly. Completely and purely. One of the strongest ways to center yourself and release disease is by learning how to breathe, which almost none of you know how to do as automatic as it is. Learn how to breathe from your center. That will go a long way towards eliminating disease in your body of any kind. That's the first step.

Open up as you breathe to attracting information and help on all levels to bring to you information that will help alleviate the difficulty you are having. Attract individuals to make suggestions to you. Choose which feels best to you. Do not take anyone's word for it. Do not be overly cynical as well. Open yourself up to know that the universe is supporting you and will send you all of the information you need. Pick and choose what feels best to you. But breathe. Breathe. Breathe.

Take your time. Be at ease. Breathe. This is all we can tell you right now.

**Asker:** I I have a second question. Thank you. I've heard a lot about increasing our vibrations. Yes. Are there physical exercises and things we can do aside from meditation?

**Bashar:** The breathing will help in that direction as well because as you center, your vibration will raise. Anytime you feel that you wish to help heal someone, your vibration will raise. Just what gives you joy in life, the doing of that will raise your vibration.

**Asker:** My joy is singing.

**Bashar:** Well that's a vibration in and of itself, is it not? Yes. What is the most joyful note or harmony or chord that you can possibly hit? If you hum that, your favorite chord, that will also center you, that will also heal you, that will also raise your vibration. If you immerse yourself in a symphony of instruments of that note, of that harmony, of that chord, of that peace, that will also heal you.

**Asker:** All right, that's fascinating. Thank you.

**Bashar:** That is the beginning. See what that does for you. Thank you. We thank you very much.

---

### Question 13: Intentional Psychology and Relationships

**Asker:** Sharing. Hi Bashar and to you good day. I have an update and a curiosity I'd like to share with you. All right. Update. Okay. Update since the last time we spoke, yes. I did a workshop in intentional psychology. Yes. Which was very successful. Oh, thank you very much for creating it to be so. So thank you. Um it actually just evolved. I got woken up one evening. It kind of just poured out of me and it was exceedingly exciting.

**Bashar:** And one moment. Intentional psychology, something we discussed. Go ahead.

**Asker:** Yes. And in the course of it, it has truly brought my intentions into alignment and they just continue to unfold. Um you are looking clearer. Thank you. Um the curiosity, yes. Okay. Um in my work, here comes the cat. The cat. Uh yes. In my work, yes. What I observe is that relationships are all movement. And in this movement there seems to be a tension between union and separation between people coming together and separating. And I'm wondering uh when we are going to be able to be integrated enough to stay with the union or do you understand that integration does not mean that you will lose your diversity?

**Bashar:** Oh absolutely. All right. It means you become a stronger individual. Yes. Separation you're saying or the integration? Integration. Okay. Means you become a stronger individual. Absolutely. All right.

Anytime. Anytime at all it is open to you to integrate to the point where you do not have that idea that you are calling separation. However, understand that some separations are positive because they are responsible for your ability to be able to experience physical reality. You will not lose all separations. You will never lose all separations. You understand that?

**Asker:** Yes. I I understand they can serve you constructively in many ways by providing what you would call a different perspective, a different point of view. The idea is to unconditionally acknowledge, accept, and love all the points of view. Recognize what your preference is. Live that way. And you have at that moment absolute ability.

**Bashar:** What would be the best way for me to assist others in feeling comfortable or okay? I don't have the words. With the idea of a union if that's what they truly desire.

**Asker:** One moment. How much play do you put into your intentional psychology?

**Bashar:** Um a fair amount. A fair amount.

**Asker:** I wouldn't want you to put an unfair amount. Yes. I I believe there's a great deal of play.

**Bashar:** Do you ever get silly?

**Asker:** Um on occasion. No. Right. What prevents you from becoming silly more often?

**Bashar:** Um because you want it to be taken seriously.

**Asker:** Exactly. What I'm hearing usually has a very serious um connotations, so I respond. Some of the if you can allow them while acknowledging that they see it as a serious idea and not taking away from that, if you can allow them to begin to learn to play more with it and allow them to be silly with it, you will have a stronger success.

**Bashar:** Yeah. That thank you. That is really my intention. That's who I see myself as and what I feel like I do the best.

**Asker:** You will find the way to allow them to know that you take them very seriously. And all that really means is that you respect them with absolute and unconditional love and integrity. Okay. And at the same time you can then allow them to move themselves out of that. Not taking themselves away, not divesting themselves, but moving out of it in the sense of realizing that they have created it, that it is their toy to play with, that they can shape it, change it, mold it, pattern it in any way shape or form they want. It's not fixed. It's not rigid. Doesn't have to remain in a serious face, serious mask. Can take the corners of the serious mouth and push them up. Can put some smile lines around the eyes.

That might be a good exercise for you. The masks that you use to represent comedy and drama. Have them see the serious dramatic mask. Have them see the comedy mask. Tell the story that they want to tell you with the serious mask first. Tell the same story with the comedy mask and see if they feel a difference. See if they gain some insight into how to transform the idea that they are sharing with you. That can be one exercise.

**Bashar:** Can I ask you um I've been working with somebody who's had a very difficult time with a violation that occurred uh when she was 11. Yes. And uh I'm wondering if you might also be able to give me some other ways besides what I've already done.

**Asker:** Are they freely acknowledging how angry they are about that?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Asker:** Are they willing to express it as fully as they wish to?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Asker:** Are they willing to recreate the incident by saying now what they wished they could have said then, by expressing themselves while they are angry, by saying what they wanted to have said then to the other person?

**Bashar:** I believe they would be willing to do that.

**Asker:** Do it. They have to get it out of their system. When we say experience it, we mean experience it. Feel it. Say it. Say what you wanted to have said. You must get the whole expression out. The expression hasn't gotten out. The anger is there. They may be willing to say yes, I'm angry. Well, how are you angry? I'm angry enough to have said this. Well, say it. The whole act must be there in order for them to really feel the experience.

And then they can also, they can also do many different things from that point forward. But once they have truly expressed what they really wanted to say that they felt they never could say, then they will be at a point where they can pick and choose how they wish to go from that point. But they will have released a great portion of that block.

Okay. From that point forward they can do a number of things. They could recreate the entire scenario. They can have the person that they felt did this to them say to them what they would have preferred that person to have said or done rather than what they did or said. They can reinvent the entire childhood and know that it is a real new childhood, a real new childhood that they are redefining themselves. And as they redefine the child, they will redefine the adult. They will become a new person literally.

Okay. That's one other way. There are many other ways, but the key to all of this is that they must truly experience the whole experience. Understand? Yes. In a place of safety and in a way that doesn't hurt anyone else.

**Bashar:** Yes, I feel I can create that.

**Asker:** All right. Well very good. Okay. Thank you Bashar.

**Bashar:** Well thank you very much.

---

### Question 14: Developing Creative Material and Fear

**Asker:** And greetings Bashar and good day to you. Thank you. Uh I've been clarifying for myself the kinds of material I should like to develop for production. Production. Yes, yes. And um I've come across a couple issues that I'd like to explore with you. All right. Be bold. Speak up. Thank you.

One is in considering uh the material itself, shall I be only looking to consider what is exciting for me or do I need to also be conscious in some other way of the audience I will be speaking to?

**Bashar:** What is exciting for you will reach the audience that is designed to receive what you have to say. Okay. Understand? Yes. So I just as long as I'm feeling satisfied within myself.

**Asker:** Absolutely. If you're not satisfied in yourself with what you're doing, you don't reach anybody except people who like to sit back and watch you flap around miserably, not saying what it is you really want to say. You'll reach that audience. The critics.

**Bashar:** Great. Do it the way you want to do it and you'll reach the audience that you need to reach.

**Asker:** Okay. Um and then the other thing that I've been exploring is the concept um I'm very excited about the idea of looking at old patterns and breaking those old patterns and not feeling having to be attached to them so in order to be able to move on. Yes. And it in part this is connected with my first question because I feel within myself that I've learned a process with which to do that. Yes. But on a mass level I haven't seen too much evidence of this happening.

**Bashar:** A mass level. Yes. What do you mean by that?

**Asker:** In terms of the society around me, the world around me.

**Bashar:** So well, that's all right. Okay. Do understand this, please. Everything that we have said, everything that we suggest to all of you, doesn't mean we do not recognize that you are an intensely complex society. You have been steeped in the idea of belief systems you don't prefer for many thousands of years. It's going to take a little time. It's going to take a little time before you see some of the changes you want to see. But at least make the changes in your own life. That's what will allow everyone else the best opportunity to make the changes in theirs.

Don't have the expectation that you have to see anyone change. Sometimes the changes that you see in other people are not changes in the people you already know. It's simply that those people move out of your life and people who are more aligned with what it is you prefer move into your life. And that's the change. You understand?

**Asker:** Yes. I I recognize that on within my own sphere.

**Bashar:** Well the whole that can be the whole point. And that might be the entire methodology in which the change will occur. Not that you will see the other people change, just that you will only surround yourself and they will surround themselves with people who think alike.

**Asker:** So so in joining these two concepts here, if I if I work on material that speaks to where I'm at about change, letting go of old patterns and moving forward, then it'll just reach the audience I need to reach. I don't have to worry about absolutely seeing where they are.

**Bashar:** For every person that has something to say, there has to be someone who wants to hear it. Or you wouldn't exist. Or you wouldn't want to say those things. There are no one-sided coins.

**Asker:** Okay. And then then logically I would have to say that I would be able then to find the people who will finance this that want to hear the same movie.

**Bashar:** Everything that you need will automatically be presented to you as an opportunity for you to follow up. Follow up the ones that excite you the most. Follow up the ones that are truest to your original vision. No compromising.

**Asker:** Yes. Many of you think: whoa, whoa, whoa, no compromising? Well I have to be a real stuck up stiff idea person that'll never be able to bend or this or that. No, no, no, no, no. That is not what we mean when we say no compromising. Doesn't mean you don't work with people. But the idea is to recognize that the teeth fit in the grooves where they need to. That's the only compromise. That's the true working together. That's the true blending. When the teeth fit in the grooves. This is the kind of compromise most of you attempt to make, butting your heads against each other when many times you have no business dealing with the people you force yourself to deal with because you're not aligned.

**Bashar:** Okay. That that speaks to uh to something that I've been feeling while I've been looking through this which is a a fear within me that the things that I want to say have been received in a manner where other people have been scared by them. So that scared me. And is that is that meaning I'm meeting people that are not aligned with me or it means also that?

**Asker:** It means also that you are attracting people to reflect back to you that there are still some issues you're afraid of. You have to work on those. Okay. To become the person you really want to be, to do the vision you really have. And then you will attract the people who will reflect your clarity of vision. When you are uncompromising, so will the people you attract in your reality be. And they will be more aligned with you. And you align with them synchronistically.

**Bashar:** Okay. Do not put the expectation on how you think it has to manifest because there are many ways it could manifest. You will find that out when you allow yourself to be the person who is true to the vision. Okay. Does that help you?

**Asker:** It does. Can I ask you one other thing?

**Bashar:** Oh, all right. One.

**Asker:** Um I met recently someone who is a a Native American Indian Chief and who I want to propose working on this vision with. Does that excite you?

**Bashar:** It does. Um I'm I'm wondering if that um I feel this fear of that it will be offensive to him to receive the explanation that I have to share with him because then here's how you go about it.

**Asker:** Okay. Again, do not play games. Do not act in denial. That's what will turn him off. Okay. Because he will sense the fear you're not acknowledging. If you say I am scared spitless to talk to you about this, but I'm going to do it anyway because this is what excites me, then he'll know you're genuine and he'll talk to you. You understand?

**Bashar:** So rather than just going forth with with it. Oh please sir. Well no, I in that way you know what I mean though. I'm exaggerating the point, but you know what I mean.

**Asker:** More often than not the point is is that when you want to say something to someone, you don't acknowledge the total you that is saying it. You try to hide behind a facade by saying: well I have to act like I'm not really afraid, I have to act like I know what I'm doing, I have to act like this has some worth, I have to act like it has merit, I have to act like he might be interested. And then if you listen to yourself, what you're actually saying is I have to act like it is, but what you're saying is it doesn't really have worth, it doesn't really have merit, he may really not find it that way. You're scared of all these things.

So go in with the real you. I am scared. I am afraid you may not find this as exciting as I find it, but that's okay. Maybe you won't. But that's okay too. But I'm scared and that's all right. But I'm going to tell you what it is anyway. Okay. It's that genuineness that's what will click. And it is the genuineness that will erase the fear paradoxically.

**Bashar:** Okay. You understand? I I believe I do. I I've when will you contact this individual?

**Asker:** I have already written a letter which I was um going to seal up and deliver. But now I I'm I guess my question is do I may I ask you a question?

**Bashar:** May I ask you a question? Oh, you got me very excited now. Oh good. Hold, hold. Why did you write a letter?

**Asker:** Because he's in New York.

**Bashar:** All right. Would you have preferred to have seen the person in person?

**Asker:** Oh I I had intended it but then his airplane left before I got the chance to talk to him.

**Bashar:** If you had an opportunity, you would have done it in person?

**Asker:** Absolutely.

**Bashar:** All right. Thank you very much. That's all I needed to know.

**Asker:** Okay. My my question was I I really put myself forth I think very solidly in my letter but I did not say I'm scared. Do I need to add that? PS I'm scared. Send the second letter. Do you feel, do you feel that if you send a second letter that might be a little more open and more revealing about who you really are and how you really feel, that you will feel lighter after writing it?

**Bashar:** I don't know. I can try it and find out.

**Asker:** Don't try it. Write it. Do it.

**Bashar:** Well I haven't I haven't sent the first one yet.

**Asker:** Or you haven't. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. I don't I've I've really presented my idea and you haven't sent the first one? I just wrote it. When? Two nights ago. Two nights ago. Yes. Could have been on its way. It could have been. Why isn't it? Because I've been out of town and I haven't attended to. There aren't no mailboxes out of town. No, there aren't.

You understand what I'm saying? Any hesitation at all is an indication that you are not necessarily aligned with the intention of your vision. Okay. It is those chinks that you need to re-evaluate. Okay. That's all we are really saying.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Thank you very much.

**Asker:** Our love to you. Thank you.

---

### Question 15: Implants and Self-Empowerment (Repeated Theme)

**Asker:** Hello Bashar and good day to you. Good day. Speak up and be bold so that all may share what you have to say. All right. Um I have a couple of questions. The first, the first is that as a psychic healer um for years when I scan people's bodies, I noticed something you can call an energy field or a beam that's going into bodies. And I'll trace it back on many occasions I'll trace it back to uh UFO or an extraterrestrial. And I find that when people having physical problems like pains in certain areas, when I remove the beam, the pain goes away. And I've been told that some of these are implants and I've been told that they're negative. And I was wondering I wanted you to explain to me maybe I don't know if that's what it is if there is such a thing as an implant and why um an extraterrestrial or UFO would want to put beams into people on this planet.

**Bashar:** A, yes there are implants. B, they do not occur with many civilizations, in fact very few. Understand that there are many many many civilizations out here. Not all of us are aligned in our point of view. Do not necessarily always think of us as one big happy club. There are many with their own agendas. Even though we have an association of worlds and in that association we are basically in alignment, there are many who are not a part of that. There are many who are forming their own agreements with your civilization and interacting with your civilization in a various number of ways.

The idea of some of the things that have been happening to some of your species members that may seem on the surface to be uncomfortable, painful, negative our interactions with some of these other species, some of these other races, they have their own agendas, their own things they wish to learn. Some of the discomfort simply comes from understanding. Some of the discomfort comes from an inability of one species to really be able to identify even on what you would consider the most basic level of similarity with each other. Some of the discomfort comes from being forced to face certain aspects of your own consciousness that you may not yet be ready to face.

Some of the beams in that sense can also be considered implants, not physiological ones although those exist, but implants in the sense that adjustments were made in a person's energy to allow them to look at certain things. Now they can be painful sometimes because perhaps the energy going through certain chakras or energy gates in the body are pouring more energy through that gate than the person may be used to handling. And so it may be painful for a while until they can adjust to it.

It is not a negative thing necessarily to take that away, but you're not really taking it away. The idea is that you may be allowing them a little bit of a vacation, a little bit of a respite. You may be readjusting or fine-tuning their energy to allow them to be more acclimated to the change that has occurred within them so they can handle the energy better and thus it is not painful for them any longer. The beam may seem to disappear but what in many cases may actually be happening is that their energy is adjusting to encompass the beam so it simply vanishes within the total energy that they now have changed themselves to and is no longer recognizable because it doesn't stand out.

There are many many many things that are happening in what you have described. Many different scenarios, many different types of interactions with many different types of beings. The whole spectrum that you have mentioned is true, but each case has to be taken individually to understand what is happening in that specific case. You follow me?

**Asker:** Yes, thank you. Does this answer your question sufficiently well?

**Asker:** It helps. I'm the next part of that is am I putting myself a danger by uh interacting with these UFOs and and removing some of these beams from people's bodies?

**Bashar:** Are you doing it with the overall intention of being of assistance?

**Asker:** I'm doing it with the intention of helping and if somebody's in physical pain, that's why they would come to me.

**Bashar:** Then you are in no danger.

**Asker:** Okay. I mean in danger with uh these the extraterrestrials.

**Bashar:** Are you doing it with the intention of being of assistance?

**Asker:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Then you are in no danger. Okay. Do you understand how you are connected?

**Asker:** I I do understand that now. I'm I'm curious because there are times when I put my attention out and I feel that I am in communication with UFOs and sometimes at times I felt that there was some kind of an energy um that was coming towards me to make me forget certain things.

**Bashar:** Um mostly this is simply a rebound or an echo of the inner fears that you are expressing right now. Okay. Because when you send out, when you send that beam out, the things that are reflected to you and the things that will stand out the most are the issues within you that you must process the strongest. If they are fear, if it is something that you may wish to forget, then forgetfulness will usually be the strongest echo that comes back.

All right, this may seem threatening. Do not view it that way. There is nothing that any of you ever has to forget. The only reason that there is forgetting from time to time and the only reason it may seem as if forgetting is imposed upon you from time to time is because you are holding yourselves in check because there are certain things that you are afraid to look at. You in all the cases of forgotten time, missing time, forgotten episodes, forgotten interactions, each and every one of you are always sent on your way holding firmly, holding the control, the button, the string that will immediately unlock all the forgetfulness when you are ready to face what it is you have forgotten about yourselves.

**Asker:** Okay. I have one key, one cue that I can share with you now. All of you: it is all right to be afraid. But you don't have to be afraid of being afraid. That's usually what stops you. It's all right to be afraid. Let yourself dive into the fear, process it, and then you will know through your feeling, through your emotionality, what it is about yourself that you have been taught to separate, to segregate, and what you can bring back and absorb and integrate within you.

**Bashar:** Okay. More often than not you do not allow yourselves to feel or to be in touch with feelings that would help you integrate yourself because you are afraid of being afraid. You remove yourself two steps beyond the original feeling. It is all right to be afraid. You can be afraid and you can still do anything you want, even if you're afraid. Being afraid does not stop you from doing what you want. Being afraid of being afraid stops you.

**Asker:** Understand the difference. Just being afraid about something directly does not ever stop you from doing what you want. Does that help you?

**Bashar:** Oh absolutely, thank you very much. Can I ask you another question about this implant?

**Asker:** If you're not afraid to.

**Bashar:** No, I'm not at all. Oh, oh right. I actually haven't been afraid. I've been doing this now for many many years and I don't I don't have a fear at all. I I just wanted my I'm curious about this implant. What is the intention of putting an implant in someone's head? Is it with the intention of getting information from us or to put information to give us information?

**Bashar:** That is two.

**Asker:** Does it take away our self-determinism where we're thinking?

**Bashar:** No, no. All right. And it also keeps track of what the person. That's what I want to know. Why do they want to keep track of us?

**Asker:** Well, out of 6 billion people, it would take a while to find one if there were not a beacon somewhere. Okay. It is important to find the people that they have already made agreements with, they are already working with. Because those people they are working with, they are working with for specific reasons. You understand?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Asker:** Again, it doesn't mean that it has to happen this way. Part of the reason it is happening this way in such a clandestine fashion is because of the structure that exists in your own governments of keeping things secret. Once all of this is brought out into the open, none of this really has to happen this way. But again, the race that is doing this has their own agenda, quite separate from ours, quite separate from most of the beings in the association. They are very much more a reflection of your own society than you might think.

**Bashar:** Oh, I'm sure of that.