---
title: "Tipping the scales"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1991-09-01
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 126
tags: ['communism']
---



Particularly because of the recent event in your Soviet Union, much acceleration and much strengthening has taken place.

This makes it much more likely for certain kinds of changes to occur now upon your planet.

Between 1993 and 1997, you will begin to see a complete restructuring of many of the old institutions or methods of doing things within your industry, your educational systems, your social, political and economic counterparts. 

Not that these things have not been changing slowly, but you will now find that you have in many ways tipped the scales so that changes can occur more rapidly. 

Who among you would have thought a year ago that the change that happened in the Soviet Union could have taken place in only 3 days? 

<!-- Now you'll begin to understand the degree of acceleration that is really occurring upon your planet and begin to use this and other things that will occur in the very near future as examples, as symbols to show you how rapidly you can change your world. -->

<!-- It will now be necessary for  -->

A very similar kind of change could happen in the USA to achieve a certain balance in your political structures.

<!-- as to the kind of change that took place in your Soviet Union to take place in your United States of America . And this change in your United States of America  -->


This can occur before 1997 and will be its own version of the concept of your people taking back their own self-empowerment. 

Not taking power away from the people that are in your government, but allowing power to be understood as an equalization — that everyone can gain their own self-empowerment, that everyone can balance the system out and perpetuate and benefit every single member of your society in positive ways.

This will take a great restructuring and you may see many ups and downs, many shakeups, many collapses between 1993 and 1997. 

But do understand that these collapses so to speak do not mean that the foundations themselves have been undermined. It means that you have set up new foundations; you really have begun to lay the true foundations that will allow the old systems to break apart so that when they do, you can be there ready and willing with new systems to take their place, to shore it up, build it up from the beginning again, but not have to take the amount of time that it would have had to take in the past. 

Now you can do this relatively rapidly, for you are learning how to access information in new ways. You are learning how to communicate with each other in new ways and learning how to create new things very rapidly, very quickly, because now you are allowing yourselves to open your eyes to what really needs to be done. And more importantly, you are doing it — not just talking about it, but you are beginning to do it. You are beginning to see examples that you have actually made changes in your foundational belief systems. And thus things are much clearer and more accelerated than they have ever been before.

You will see many astonishing changes in that time span that we have outlined, so that in 1997 you will have created enough of a momentum so that almost every single one of the old systems that attempts to hang on to the old methodologies will no longer be able to do so. And in that year you will see the great collapse of many old style political systems, which will then be replaced by new ones. So that between your 1997 and your year of 2011-2013, you can be working together with a clear global purpose to lay the foundations for a unified system that will allow every individual to really live up to their full creative potential. You will not establish every single aspect of it within that time frame, but you will lay the foundations that will allow it to occur over the course of the beginning of your new century.


in seeing events happen on your planet as quickly as they happened in your Soviet Union, this can be the barometer to let you know that you really have had an effect, that you really have made changes, and that you really are becoming a very different society, and that you really have upgraded your frequency and your vibration so that much more, much more is now possible upon your planet. No longer do you have to listen to the ideas of "this can't be done, this can't happen."

You now really have seen miracles occur in areas that you have thought were locked in stone. You have really begun to change. And we congratulate you and your activities upon this endeavor, because it brings us closer to you and you closer to us day by day, much more quickly. 


### **Question about a Social Theorist's Theory on the Origin of Consciousness**

A social theorist James talks about the origin of consciousness. He discusses a theory that ancient people, like any other animal, had no concept of guilt, deception, evil, justice, philosophy, history, or the future. 

They could not introspect and had no internal idea of themselves. They had no subjective sense of time or space and had no memories as we know them. They were unconscious and innocent. The development of human consciousness began about 3,000 years ago when the automatic bicameral mind began breaking down under the mounting stresses of its inadequacy to find workable solutions in increasingly complex societies. The hallucinated voices became more and more confused, contradictory, and destructive. 

Man was forced to invent and develop consciousness in order to survive as his hallucinating voices no longer provided adequate guidance for survival. So today, after 3,000 years, most people retain remnants of the bicameral guidance system in the form of mysticism and the desire for external authority.

Is he referring to consciousness or conscience? He refers to it as consciousness. I take issue with this "invention" idea.

Consciousness has always existed and always will. Its infusion into human form upon your planet and expression as the human form of consciousness does have a history in time and space.

much longer ago than that individual is intimating — thousands and thousands and thousands of years ago — was this form of consciousness you recognize today as your own form of physical consciousness exemplified and expressed in physical reality in Earth terms, in human terms. 

The idea, however, is that tens of thousands of years ago, there was not the expression of consciousness that created the reflections called guilt and many of the negative expressions that you now understand to be expressed by your consciousness. This part is true. The idea, however, is that this bifurcation, this introspection in a negative sense, did take place because of certain disconnections of consciousness to its natural state, to its connection of all that is, creating feedback loops that created artificial scenarios that this person is referring to as this so-called bicameral mind. This general process did take place because of a disconnection from the natural state, but it did not create consciousness. Remember that consciousness created physical reality.

In our current western civilization, then, there was a period of time when we did not have consciousness as it is in its current form. Correct. You expressed consciousness more as a total knowingness. 

There was not so much of the segregation or compartmentalization of self-reflectivity, especially on the negative side that is existing now in your society. It was more of a holistic recognition approach, much more natural, and much more similar to what you would understand to be animal consciousness. But at no time was it ever not self-aware.

Is there anything ET in influence that regards this influx of consciousness? 

To some degree, yes. There have been infusions and alterations that have occurred from time to time, depending upon the degree of segregation that your society had already created and therefore the degree and type of interaction that made it necessary to create in your society to allow you the opportunity to rediscover yourselves once again. But we only provided the opportunity. We did not necessarily actually give you the means by which to rediscover your connection to nature.

Is your current involvement with our civilization maybe the next boost in that area? In a sense, although again, remember you will provide the boost; we simply supply the means to create that boost.


### Visitation on May 23rd**

What happened on the night of May 23rd and the early morning hours. 

Your little visitation.


You were given information on certain kinds of connections that you have with your son who is very strongly connected to the Arcturus Gate — where there is a realignment of consciousness before it is incarnated upon your planet again so that it will forget less and less of its connection to all that is. 

You were told of some of the agreements and connections between yourself and your son in terms of the timing of your life, what you have shared with him, what you have provided to him as an opportunity to learn about himself. It was explained and shown to you some of the patterns of the agreements that you have between you.


How is your own path doing with regard to your own passion? 

I would like to practice spiritual healing. I've been guided a lot in the direction that Joel Goldsmith wrote about in his books — through prayer, through communion with all that is, and seeing people as they truly are, knowing the truth about people and situations, and therefore creating healing rather than getting caught up in appearances.

And what in your estimation prevents you from seeing people as they naturally are? Because I'm not seeing myself as I naturally am. And in what way can you see yourself? Can you allow yourself to be more natural? What can you forgive within yourself to allow you to exist in your natural state? What do you assume needs forgiving? I don't know. That's not coming to me.

This is some of what was discussed in that visitation — what it is that you need or believe needs forgiving within you. 

what kind of guilt might you have about your son and/or his present situation relative to you? 

Well, that was another one of my questions. I wanted to know how I could be a better guide for Nathan. I feel like I've messed things up for him.

You have not. Understand that the breaking, as we have already discussed with him, of his middle finger on the left hand provides him in the future with a more sensitive antenna to receiving information, distilling that information, and determining what information is actually more appropriate for him. 

So in this case, the correct question is: how can my son be a better guide for me? You can learn from him if you talk with him and dialogue with him about his ability to be sensitive to what information is truly applicable to him in his life, rather than what information you have been taught to teach him is applicable in his life. You may gain some insight as to the degree of sensitivity he has at discerning what is true. And this may help you discern what is true in other individuals. 

At the same time, you can relax about the situation that you have co-created with him in terms of your family situation. Because again, the idea is to begin to trust that the timing really does have relevance, really does teach you what you need to know. And that you can relax about the idea of communicating to all individuals involved in this situation or scenario that you have created, and to trust that what it is you really need to say and what it is you really need to communicate from your heart, and what it is that really pertains to what gives you passion, will always be able to be accommodated in any situation in which you are being true to yourself and allowing others to be true to themselves as well. For if everyone in a situation is being allowed to be true to themselves, then everything that they truly want in their heart of hearts will mesh and synchronize with everything else everyone else wants. The only time there is conflict is when you place the masks of assumed personas upon yourself that you think you have to play a certain role in order to get something done. But when you go back to your true self, you will understand that the conflict will dissolve.

you can accelerate this process by already allowing yourself to practice the forms of healing that  interest you.

Can you allow yourself already to practice these forms of healing as are shown to you in your visions? Yes, I think I can. Can you define or describe one scenario that would be representative of the type of healing that you would find very exciting to do? If somebody should come into my realm of consciousness stating that they have a disease of some form or a problem, instead of falling into "oh yes, that's really too bad, I'm very sorry," seeing them as the light that they are and reflecting that back to them. By enticing them to explore in their imagination alternatives is one way. By luring them into their own child and allowing them to recreate their childhood as they desire to is another way. And this is something that you can learn from your child as well. You can learn much from him in terms of methodology and approach to the idea of helping other individuals rediscover their own child. Learn from him. Let him be the guide that he is. And it will serve to accelerate you in this direction that you say gives you passion.

And of course, above and beyond all, if you say this gives you passion, then feel the passion when you talk about it. Convince me that you're passionate about it. I had that message this morning. Thank you.

I Feel that I need to be the one that takes care of everyone financially, so I therefore can't take chances. But you don't, and you're not taking a chance. By being yourself, you're creating the strongest stable situation you possibly can create. You must trust the whole situation.

Now, do me a favor if you will. Are you ready? Yes. Are you sure? Yes. Promise. Thank you. Repeat after me: Passion. Passion. Passion. Thank you. Now, how do you feel when you say the word "passion"? Say it and tell me how you feel. Say passion. Passion. How do you feel? It feels really good. Do you like that feeling? Yes. Then head in the direction of that feeling and everything will be fine. It is your beacon. It is your lighthouse. You must relax.


When you decide to relax into a meditative state, it would be of great assistance to you to actually physically focus on a physical tetrahedral structure to do so. Thus you will have a direct symbolic physical representation of the connection or switch or valve that you are symbolically or energetically utilizing, like a doorway. You will see the triangle that rests on the ground as the three points and the one at the top as the dimensional gate. In focusing on the center of the tetrahedron — making an open framework tetrahedron so you can see all the way through it — in focusing your attention in the center, then you will be able to utilize that. As you move your attention, your focal point, up and down that center line within the interior of the tetrahedral structure, it will be like fine-tuning a radio bandwidth. And you will receive different forms of information depending upon where the focus of your consciousness is, all the way from the center of the ground all the way up to the apex. Move your attention of that point along that line up and down and see and feel the different feelings and sources of information and attitudes and vibrations and frequency changes that take place within you as you do so. Bit by bit, day by day, become more familiar with exactly how it is you are fine-tuning that system. And it will give you more precision as to tapping into what you need to tap into informationally and exactly how to ground yourself to apply that information in your physical reality.

I made a copper tetrahedron. I already have it. Thank you. Then use the device you already have.


Do you have water on your planet? 

Yes, quite a bit. In fact, more than you do. 

Do you guys enjoy being in it every day also? Does your skin... do you still participate in playing in it or whatnot? Oh, yes. Well, I was aware that you were becoming less physical, and I was just, you know, I really still play in the water. 


### Astrology**

Explain astrology.

We recognize that the idea that astrology represents is generally accurate in the sense that you as a non-physical being, when you choose to incorporate yourself or crystallize or shall we say freeze yourself into physical reality, do take on, do incorporate to some degree within your structure the patterns of energy that exists at the time of your crystallization. 

Astrology can be a generally symbolic idea of the patterns that represent your agreements, your choices, your chosen paths. 

There can be for an individual who allows themselves to be very strongly sensitive or intuitively tuned to those patterns the ability to glean very precise information. But it is more the ability of the individual to fine-tune their focus into the intricate patterns of the crystallized physicality of your consciousness, rather than the ability of the astrological tool itself to get that detail. The astrological tool can act as a trigger, a catalyst, a guide, an amplifier, or a focuser for the individual's sensibilities at being able to perceive those detailed patterns of energy that represent the general choices and agreements that any particular individual may have frozen into their being, represented by the date of their birth.

In just having a natal chart done for myself, though, the problem that I have with astrology — what makes me angry about it — is that they say that because of the way the planets were aligned, etc., at the exact time and place of your birth, that basically is your path in life in general. So what I'm asking you is: they're saying — the argument I had with the woman was — why can't I change that if I don't like it? And she said, "Marilyn, it's your path. There's nothing to be done."

it is indicates a general path. you have chosen to explore broad themes in this life. 

And therefore the energies that the chart represents are those general themes. The specifics about how you go about experiencing, exploring, and unfolding those themes is completely up to the free will of your physical consciousness. 

So while you may have a tendency to move in certain directions, what you do about that, how you go about that, how you experience it — positively, negatively, generally, precisely — is up to you. So in a sense it is a combination of both. 

It does not mean that when it represents your path, that means every single action and every single movement is already fixed and determined. This is not what it means. It means it is representative of general agreements that you will usually abide by. 

But since you can explore general themes from any number of directions, the specifics of how you do so is completely up to you.


### Manifesting Screenplays**

I'm having difficulty manifesting my screenplays into reality. I read "The Right Use of Will" as you suggested. I followed the 1-3-5-7 formula. But I seem to be blocked in attracting people that can manifest them. 

If every one of you pursues a vision that is truly yours, uniquely yours, then the path that will be most successful will be the path that allows you to retain the highest degree of control over the vision. 

The truest representation of the vision will be the opportunities that will work for you. But at the same time, old beliefs might be creating in you patterns that allow you to continue to wait for opportunities to come in certain forms rather than allowing yourself to be able to see what areas you yourself could invent from scratch new opportunities. 

You need more boldness to create the scenario that will help you move ahead instead of waiting for the scenario, waiting for the people. 

This is always an opportunity when pursuing your own vision: to create the situation, to become the person, to act like the person you already want to be in the vision.

Now in the most fully realized version of your particular dream, what are you? How are you acting? Can you give us a brief definition of the most fully realized version of your dream? 

To write, direct, and produce. Primarily writing and directing, but producing in the sense of packaging the people or individuals I see in my project. 

Why did you make a distinction with regard to the idea of being a producer? 

Because the money end of it doesn't interest me. I'm not very good with numbers in terms of excitement. 

So what you may be doing is assuming that because you have learned to look at numbers and money in a certain way, that viewpoint, that attitude, may in and of itself be creating in you an inability to see how you could learn about numbers and could learn about money in a way that's exciting, especially to you, and allow you to actually fulfill the complete function of the producer without having to learn the things you need to learn in a way that you don't want to learn them.

Many times individuals will not want to pursue one particular aspect of their dream — in your case, production — because of what they have been taught to believe it must mean, and because of what they have been taught to believe they must learn, and in the way they must learn it does not seem appealing to them, and so they say, "Well, I'm not excited about that, therefore it must not be a part of this idea." 

I'm not saying that it is, but I am simply saying in your case, what you may not be understanding or seeing is that sometimes you don't feel excited about something not because it isn't something that would be exciting, but because you are not allowing yourself to realize that there is a way in which it can be exciting, because you think the whole area is simply not exciting to you because of the way you think you have to approach it, because of the belief systems you have been brought up with. It may prevent you from feeling the excitement that actually could be in that area.

Believe that there might be a way to learn those things in an exciting way. Well, I'm already producing in the sense that I'm submitting — I've already gotten one major actress to agree to star in one of my films, and I'm getting into other entities that can make it created in that sense. I'm just saying that if I have a choice, I would prefer to be directing it and being the creative entity that pulls the emotional and narrative text of the film together rather than being more in an accounting position.

Now we are not saying that you cannot hire an accountant, but the idea in general is that if you are going to function as a producer on any level, then you must at least to the fullest definition of the function be aware of the things that really need to be done, and you must be able to discuss them from an excited point of view, even if you do not actually undertake the actual physical function of that department yourself. 


But if you have a resistance to the very nature of that particular aspect of your vision, you yourself could be putting the brakes on. Because if there should come a time when one of those aspects needs to be done by you, you will not do it because you have a natural resistance to it — or shall I say a learned resistance to it — based on the belief systems you have about not wanting to fulfill that function. You must be aware of what that function is; you must be able to discuss it intelligently from an excited point of view, from the perspective that does excite you. You can't just shut the whole department off even though you may hire someone to actually do the physical bookwork.

How are you going to impart to an accountant, to a bookkeeper, the general concept of what needs to be done if you haven't worked out at least the general numbers to begin with? How are they going to know what numbers to work with, what numbers to refine, what details to focus on if you don't have some sort of a guideline for them? Well, generally there are people who make their living doing those kinds of things. Have you attracted someone like that to you? No. Well, then why not go talk to one of them? Have you done that? No, I haven't. I suppose I've been approaching it more as a writer than I have as...

Stop. You keep bouncing around between the ideas of producer, director, writer when it serves you. 

If you're going to have a vision that contains all three, then what you need to do is all three in whatever way, shape, or form truly excites you. 

So when you say, "Well no, I haven't done that because I've been acting like a writer," or "I haven't done this because at that point I was acting like a director," or "later on I was only acting like a producer and that's why I haven't done this," 

You are saying that you're actually not doing the job of any of them. 

The idea is that there is something that you need to be doing as a producer — such as, as a producer would do. If you don't like to handle the numbers, go and find someone who does. 

If you haven't done that, then you're not doing the producer's job.

That's what's holding you back. You're not acting on the things that are obviously there for you to act upon. 

You're not doing any one of the jobs if you're not fulfilling the function of each of the jobs that it is exciting for you to fulfill. 


So get a handle on what it is that you are excited about when you are a producer, what you are excited about when you are the director, and what you are excited about when you are the writer.

When you determine what each of those things are, you must do each of the aspects you have determined are representative of those three levels, if those three levels are representative of the vision that you say you want.


### A Nephew and Television Reality**

I have a three-year-old nephew, and we were talking recently and he said that he wanted to jump off of his roof because the Care Bears, which are cartoon characters, jumped off their roof, and he was a little scared to do it. 

I told him that television was make-believe, and I tried to make that distinction. He got very upset. He said, "They're not pretend, and Alf isn't pretend, and nothing on television is pretend."

What you can do is reconcile the understanding that, as we have explained, anything in your imagination is somewhere in some dimension a reality. It is not that they do not have reality. The simple distinction you need to make is that they are cartoons and he is not. You must explain to him the difference in your dimensionality — not attempt to prove to him that they are unreal, because in one sense they are not unreal; they are real. 

Explain the differences in your realities. When you get to a character like Alf, which isn't a cartoon, which to a child can appear very real, explain the difference in the reality. There is still a reality difference. It is not that it is unreal; it is simply a different reality. Explain the rules of their reality and the rules of his reality, so he can reconcile the fact that there are many different realities with different rules — not that they are not real, because his inner sense tells him that that is not true. 

They are real in many ways. But you must explain the difference in the reality system so that he understands how to reconcile those differences and apply the things that pertain to his reality to himself and the things that pertain to their realities to them. Do not attempt to make them unreal, for that is not the correct approach.



### Tapping into Information Sources**

When you tell us to wait a moment you tap into an information source. What is it?


It will be different things at different times. Sometimes it will be other members of the association of worlds. Sometimes it will be a direct tie-in to the world's spirit that is your collective consciousness on Earth. Sometimes it will be a direct conversation with your oversouls. Sometimes it will be a conversation with your guides. Sometimes it will be a conversation with beings from other dimensions for various reasons, because perhaps I have business elsewhere at the same time. It just instantly comes forth. It's an automatic spontaneous thing.

Do you tap into the Akashic records sometimes?

Yes and you very often do. 

Is there some way to accelerate that for myself? 

There are many ways. Your imagination is a direct key to tapping into what you call the Akashic record, since it is only the collective understanding that you have created in your reality dimension universe. 

Use your imagination to stretch your understanding of what information is. For it isn't really anywhere else but within you. 

The Akashic records are not outside of you. There is nothing outside of you. That's the first key to tapping into the Akashic records: recognizing that the records aren't outside of you — that you are the records. So if you become the records, you will know what they say.

Can your imagination provide you with some sort of a visual meditation to allow you to become the Akashic records? 

I could visualize a computer. That will be a good analogy. What happens on the computer? Does information appear on the screen? 

Yes, that will be one way to tap into the knowledge of the Akashic records. There are many ways. Some individuals will see it written down in stone, on paper, glowing letters in the sky. Some people will simply know what they need to know when they need to know it. Some people will hear voices in their ears or in the middle of their heads. Some people will get it through dream contact. 

Some people will see information spontaneously or synchronistically in their physical reality in the form of books or papers or signs. Information stored in the Akashic record — the collective consciousness of the fabric of your existence — can come to you, can be unlocked in many ways. Each and every one of you will have an individual way to tap into this idea. Even though there may be ways that are generally workable for many of you, use the way that seems to work best for you by creating the symbols out of your imagination. It is not a difficult thing to do. All it takes is being quiet and listening once you ask a question.

Maybe sometimes taking a warm shower will help you listen. Your baths and showers are very good meditation boosters.


### **Dream of a Diamond Inserted into the Chest**

I was using my hands and my singing to clear a path in my what I understand to be my inner heart. As that process seemed to come to the place that it completed for the moment, I was shown a really large diamond. It was cut in part of it, but I don't recall if it was cut completely. This diamond was then inserted into the center of my chest — what I understand to be where my inner heart is. I wanted to understand what that is and what it's for.


It's a symbol of your inner heart. All the facets represent all the different angles, perspectives, aspects, personas that your inner heart can manifest. It is not yet complete because you have not completely reintegrated the totality of your consciousness in this life. But as you proceed in this life, you will add more and more facets, completing the diamond by the time of the end of your physical reality or even much before that. The idea is simply symbolic of all the different things that you must reintegrate within yourself in order to really come from unconditional love, which is what is represented by the inner heart. It is your heart in its crystalline form in a sense.

Does that mean that it wasn't a part of me before and now it is a part of me and it had to be put in? 

No. It was always a part of you. You are simply now aware of it, and you are aware of how to shape it, how to facet it, how to refine it, how to create it to be whole and representative. It was simply more like clay before — malleable, shapable, undefined. Now you are clarifying, crystallizing, defining your consciousness, and so bit by bit adding facets of clarity to the heart.


### **The Number 11:11**

I've been becoming very very aware of the time 11:11. Many individuals create their own synchronicity patterns within recognition of their clocks so that they can again recognize that they have the ability to focus in on cycles that they create within themselves, to recognize patterns that they may have either positive or negative, and to trust that their own synchronicity is in fact working for them. Very often when individuals continue to look again and again at a clock and see the same time when they look, it is generally representative that synchronicity is beginning to work for you more and more.

Is there a specific significance to the time or to the concept of 11:11? It is a power number. As we have said many times before, you will find that there is a direct succession between the channel's birthday, my birthday, and my own future self's birthday within the domain called Sirius, where the channel's birthday is 10/12, mine is 11/11, and my future self's is 12/10. 11/11 is a power gate number. It is a fulcrum point number. It is a balance point number between two polarities of past and future selves. It is the blending point, the doorway that swings both ways to access past and future. If you can gather yourself together within the 11:11, you will be completely present. I've felt it to be a gate, and I felt that if at that time I stated what it was that I wanted to become, that that was the way of using that. This is so; however, a more precise and powerful way to put it is that when it is that time, state what it is you are, as opposed to what you wish to become. Be that you at that time, and you will help reinforce it, because then every time 11:11 comes around, you will be that you, and it will accelerate until it leaks into the rest of your clock and you are always that you.

Is there some reason I chose specifically to be born on the day 11:11? Yes. It is for many reasons and has to do with many agreements and interactions with many other individuals, and even for the reason of having this conversation today. There are many pathways and many reasons and many ideas for why you chose that date. Suffice it to say, you knew your proper starting point and you are exactly on time.
