---
heading: Part 1
title: "Point of Power"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2015-06-20
icon: Bashar
weight: 1137
showdate: true
tags: ['']
---


## The Purpose of the Tools

So that the tools we will share with you this day of your time can be applied by each and every one of you in the most efficacious method. Allow us first of all to delineate to some degree that the ideas will involve a little bit of what you may call a refresher on the subjects that we have talked about just to bring you as you say up to speed with regard to exactly the approach, exactly the ideas, exactly the tools that we will be discussing.

Once everyone is synchronized, then we will begin through meditative technology, shall we say, to allow you to form within your imagination the appropriate approach, the appropriate tool that will be workable for you, applicable for you in your daily physiological lives. This is one of the most critical things to understand: that what we are co-creating this day of your time is not simply a matter of philosophy. It is not simply a matter of banding about different notions that have no bearing on your day-to-day physiological reality. It is not simply a mental exercise for the purpose of getting you to smile all the time whether you feel like it or not.

The idea is to allow you to begin to understand that what we are discussing are actual tools, in so far as we have discussed many times before that as you believe, so you create, so your physical reality is experienced. Therefore, the strongest understanding, the clearest definition we shall create this night of your time together, will be that the changes you will be making in your belief structure, in your approach, in your outlook, in your perspective, will have profound, rapid, immediate impact upon the physiological reality you discover happening in your life. We are talking direct cause and effect, direct physiological, mechanical manifestations.

Also, this night of your time at what you may call the ending of this interaction, we will have a surprise visitor. This will be simply something that is sensed as applicable to the energy this evening of your time and will not last that long but simply will be appropo for the scenario, for the atmosphere that will be co-created this day of your time within this particular interaction since everything is unique.


### **Phase 1: Persona Reconstruction**

Now let us begin by refreshing your memory of the following ideas. The first phase which I shall be handling shall be entitled **Persona Reconstruction**. And before we begin the meditative tool construction, allow me to remind each and every one of you what we have discussed many times about the idea of what persona is. Some of you may think, "Well, I've heard this before," but understand every moment is new, in the first time. Therefore, we will assume that this time there will be one particular facet of what we will be discussing that you will hear as you have never heard it before, for the first time, in a new way, in a different way, and it may trigger something within you so that you will have a broader, a more expanded understanding of exactly how to apply these ideas in your life. For that is the primary purpose: the applicability of knowledge in your life.

Persona, personality—just to bring you up to date—we have discussed as being something arbitrary or, shall we say, artificially constructed by the consciousness that you are. You have for many thousands of years considered the person that you are to be the real you. And we are not saying it is not real. And by saying artificial, we do not mean that it is not natural. But we use those words because they have meanings that are applicable to the way we wish to define personality.

You, the you, the true you, the being, the total being, the total consciousness, the self-aware consciousness that you are, is in a sense—in your own terminology—grander, more expanded, shall we say, simply bigger than the physiological representational you that you are here on earth at this time. You can say simply that the person that you are right now is one of the faces, one of the fragments, one just one of an infinite number of sections or segments of the total consciousness that you are; one of many projections, one of the many ways that the total you has of expressing itself.

You exist—the total you exists—on all different levels of creation, all different levels of reality. And in each level of reality, there is another way that is appropo for the total you to express a fragment of itself, or what you would take to be a fragment of the total self. In actuality, this fragment is also the total whole because the universe is holographically constructed. And that simply means that every single portion contains the information of the total. Your fragment now, your persona now, is a representation of the total whole. But it is presented in a particular style, a particular structure, a particular format that allows itself to experience itself as only a portion of the whole. This is for the purpose of setting up a type of momentum in physical reality that allows you to know you are learning, expanding, changing, growing, and remembering more and more and more of who and what you are. It is your way of creating, of co-creating along with infinite creation.

The idea therefore, by taking this colloquial approach that you are a fragment of the whole, can be continued in the following way. You, the you you are as a physical being, is simply one of the many ways you could be expressing the total self in this reality. Even within any particular level, even within any particular reality, there are many ways to express the self, the total self, the you that you are. You all know that from time to time your persona changes, goes through shifts and transformation.

But the way you are used to thinking of reality allows you to look at this idea in the following way. You say, "Well, I'm the same person. But this one little thing about me now is different." Now you can look at it that way and that is a very valid way to assess yourself, a very valid way to look at your reality. However, it is not the only way. There is a polarity view and the difference in effect between the two views is profound.

The first view, once again, simply being by analogy the idea that you have one whole thing and you look at this whole thing as a collection of components, a collection of segmented parts that go into making up the entire thing, the entire persona in this case. And you can say, "Well, when one of those things, one of those components—my emotions, my thoughts, my beliefs, my attitudes—when one of these things changes, then I am simply the same thing. I have always been the same person I have always been, but this one little thing about me is different."

Or, and you can look at it this way: you can say, "All right, even though I may believe I am a collection of parts, it's a collection of components, collection of ideas. I can still understand that I am like unto an equation. And I know that when I take any variable in an equation and change that variable, it really is not the same equation. The total equation is different. It is not the same equation really with a new number. By changing this one number, I have changed the value of the entire equation."

In a sense, a persona is an equation. It is a vibrational construct, an artificial temporary presentation representative of a particular approach at that given moment. It is an equation and if you change any variable within that equation, you change the whole idea, the whole persona, the whole personality, the whole person. Many of you think that personality is something you have as a person. You do not. Your personality is the person. The person is the personality. In other words, a person is not a solidly fixed thing that has a personality as an expression of itself. A person is the combination of all the things that go into making up what you call the personality. That is why if you change any aspect of your personality, you have changed the person you are. Literally, not figuratively, not philosophically, literally.

You can look at it that way too. And again, the analogy that we have used many times is the analogy of the cube which has six sides and it is a blue cube and you decide, "All right, I'll paint one of the sides red." Now it is the same blue cube with one red side? Or, and you can say because one side is different, by definition it is also a completely new cube. It does not matter that five of the sides are similar to the cube that had six blue sides because this is a cube with five blue sides and one red one. It does not have to be labeled the same cube at all. It can be viewed as an entirely new equation, an entirely new cube.

The difference between these two points of view can on the surface seem very subtle. But the effect that these two different points of view can have in your life is profound because it implies the following thing. If you look at yourself as the same thing with a small change, then you change very slowly. You create more time in which many more changes, many more components need to change in order to become what you say you desire to become. But if you allow yourself to understand that if you change any one thing you have changed everything, then you can make great, as you say, quantum leaps and bounds in the direction you prefer to be moving in. You remove many of the steps that you used to think were necessary to get from one point to another by allowing yourself to take greater bites, greater leaps, greater gulps of ideas, whole concepts, whole events rather than, shall we say, partitioning those events into minute details each and every one of which must change one at a time. Groups of details can be looked at as one collective idea. And if all of that group, that set of details in your equation falls into one particular category, then if you can change anything within that category at all, you have changed all the details within that category. And you can work with larger sets of things and move that much more quickly.

Where they stand relative to where you stand... Now your estimation analytically speaking of what that stand may be is not always necessarily true of what they perceive it to be. But you sense something nonetheless vibrationally speaking. And this sense is basically located in every single cell of your body through electromagnetic alignment. Although the great activators, the great coordinators of the information your cellular antennas are picking up, are in what you call the glandular systems, especially the glandular systems of the brain, especially the pineal gland. These are the organizers that make sense out of what your cellular antennas are electromagnetically receiving of the vibrations of all around you in your physical reality.

The eighth sense is simply the transcendental sense of knowingness, direct non-physical knowingness. There are simply times when without any benefit of any physiological sense whatsoever, you simply know something to be so. It is a gestalt recognition. So understand first of all that in this clarification we are pointing out that even as a physiological being you have a few more components than you have previously assumed that you have. With this understanding that you are a seven-sensory being physically speaking, we can begin to further delineate what you are as a persona and you can begin to apply the tools we will share with you in a more direct and more precise method of understanding.


### **Meditative Tool Construction: The Sea of Light**

Now at this timing we would ask that each and every one of you become comfortable in your own way. Whether sitting, whether standing, whether laying down does not matter, whether eyes closed, whether eyes open, does not matter. And we remind you of the following things before we begin this particular meditative tool construction. Everything, anything that you perceive in your physical environment during this exercise is a part of the exercise. That which you may in the past have termed a distraction is no longer a distraction. It belongs. Whether it is a sound or a feeling, a noise, it does not matter what it is. It belongs. Let it in as a part of the exercise. The more you let in what is going on around you, the deeper towards the center of your being you will go. The deeper towards the center of your being you go, the easier it will be to reconstruct your persona in any way, shape, or form you so desire.

Let everything in. Let it in. Let it continue to chatter knowing that the chattering is a part of the process. The more you include it, the quieter it will eventually become. Validate all portions of yourself that you discover in this exercise. Accept it. Acknowledge it. Invite it. Accept it. Integrate it. Four steps: Acknowledge, Invite, Accept, and Integrate. This will take you deeper and deeper and deeper to the center of your being. Anything that pops up, do not deny it. Denial is what causes all disease, all strife, and all struggle. Deny nothing of yourself. No portion that you have created yourself to be, deny nothing of it. Do not deny your denial. Allow all emotions to come up. All perspectives. It doesn't matter whether it is positive or negative of yourself or of others at the moment. Observe it, observe it, acknowledge it, invite it, accept it, and integrate it.

By doing so, as you continue to breathe in a relaxed way, allow sensations of physical reality, allow sensations of electromagnetic reality to wash through you, around you, over you, under you. Allow yourself to begin in your imagination in any way, shape, or form that works best for you. Whether you picture it or feel it does not matter. Allow your imagination now to create the following scene.

Imagine stretched out to infinity the surface of a magnificent clear blue-white undulating sea of liquid light. Everywhere you look all around as you bob on the surface of this ocean, the sea stretches to the horizon, to infinity. There is no end to it. And you are a crystal bobbing up and down in the surface of the sea. One point on one end is pointed toward the sky. The other point is pointed down to the depths of the ocean. And exactly at your midpoint does the surface of the ocean bisect you and wrap around you. And you are bobbing gently in the waves up and down, around, back and forth. Gently, gently, gently, relaxed and enjoying this place of peace, this place of centered beingness.

And as you look around as a crystal, as your crystalline consciousness takes stock of its surrounding, you cast your attention skyward and you notice that the sky is a lighter shade of this electric blue. And it stretches to infinity. It is a dome all around you as far as you can perceive, stretching and stretching and stretching to infinity until it dissolves into the blue-black depths of infinite space filled with crystalline stars. And now you shift your attention back to the surface which stretches out all around you and it shimmers and sparkles with the light that comes from the sky and the light of all the crystalline stars.

And now you shift your attention downward into the depths of the sea. And it is infinite in depth, infinite in volume, rich and deep and eternal. And as you extend your consciousness further and further and further, it becomes the rich dark velvet, violet, deep purple, blue, black hues of infinite depth and meaning. A richness of creativity, an infinite well from which to draw sustenance forever.

And you bring your consciousness back to the surface. And you feel simultaneously the infinity of the plane all around you of the surface of the sea, the infinity of the dome above you that stretches on forever, the infinity of the depths below you. You feel all three simultaneously. And you know you are at the center of all these things. And you now begin to realize, fully realize in whatever way, shape or form makes the best sense to you. You now begin to fully realize it does not matter where you are in this sea. You could be anywhere in this sea and you would still be at the center because it is infinite in all directions. There is no way to tell if you are halfway to some place, a quarter of the way to some goal. A quarter of the way to infinity is still infinity. You are still at the center. It is infinity behind you, infinity before you, infinity on all sides and above and below you.

No matter how far you start relaxing into the understanding that what you desire in life is your right to experience. But it is also your ability to create it. And it is up to you to create it, to use your tools, to use the consciousness that you are, because your reality is created from the consciousness that you are. It is made out of the consciousness that you are. Redefine the consciousness that you are and you will get the reality you want, physical reality that you want. I guarantee it. You do not have to take my word for it. In fact, I do not want you to take my word for it. I want you to prove it to yourselves by acting, by using these tools and seeing the difference in your life. I guarantee 100% it will work. There are no exceptions. None of you cannot use these tools because all of you have already used these tools. We are simply reminding you of the fact that you have always used these tools and we are simply suggesting ways in which you can use these tools consciously so that you can be aware of the reality you are creating so you can create the reality you want. It is that simple.

It is that simple. It is that simple. Every time I say it is that simple, pay attention to the dialogue that may or may not be going on within yourself and see whether you have a dialogue that is responding in the following way. Every time I say it is that simple: "Yeah, sure. It is that simple. Nice thought." "It is that simple. Nice thought. It is that simple. All right. Well, maybe it is that simple." "Yeah. So, it is that simple. It's just the sound I'm hearing. It's just words." "It is that simple. Wait a minute. Maybe he means it really is that simple." "It really is that simple. Could he really actually literally mean it's really that easy? No. He must mean something else. There must be more to it than that." "It is that simple. Oh my. Oh my. Wait a minute. I maybe, maybe, just maybe starting to get excited that he actually means what he's saying. I feel doubts coming in. I have been told things are easy before and they haven't been. I feel doubts coming in." "It is that simple." "What if I try it again? What if I fail?" "It is that simple." "Maybe he means it, but maybe I should be cautious. Maybe I should be careful. I don't know."

It is that simple. But it's up to you to decide whether you believe it or not. What we are guaranteeing is that as soon as you do believe it is that simple, it will be that simple. Nothing will get in your way because there is nothing that can get in your way. Because you are everything in your way. Everything you come across in life is made of your consciousness. Therefore, the only thing that can ever be in your way is you. And things being in your way doesn't mean they are blocking you. It simply means that everything on your path is made of you. That your path is you. That you are your path. Everything you experience is an aspect of you. A reflection of you. It is that simple. You're doing it all the time. All the time. Blink and look upon a new reality. Blink and look upon another. What you are learning now is how to apply the tool so that when you blink, you open your eyes on the reality you prefer. Take as many blinks as you want. Take as few blinks as you want. It's still your creation and you cannot deny nor run away from that. But the joy and the ecstasy of that awareness is that you can do anything you want to with it because you are completely responsible for everything in it. 



### **Phase 2: Excitement and The Inner Child**

We give you greetings this day of your time and we would remind you that we are here to discuss the idea of excitement and abundance in your lives. We will tell you first of all that we will commence with one half of this idea and allow you to refresh yourselves with a break halfway through. We will then pick up the idea and discuss the notions of abundance which exist in your life. But first let us discuss excitement. Let us discuss the idea of what it means to play. This is critical in the creation of the reality that you desire: to learn to remember how to play, because all your reality is the product of the creations that you create in play, of your dynamic existence, of your transformations in play.

The aspect of you that knows how to play is called the child. And you are going to learn to be children right now. To nurture yourselves as children, to remember the children you are, not the children you were, the children you are. So take three deep breaths and close your eyes and drift to your place of perfect centering. And we are all going to play in the following way on a bright and sunny or moonlit day. It does not matter. You are going to recall all that you are as a child.

Envision in your imagination now a beautiful hill with trees and flowers and grass and you are standing on that hill. But you are a child between 3 and 7 years of age. And you look all around down the slope of the hill and below you on all sides is an infinite meadow of lush green grass and trees. And light from the sun and light from the moon shines down upon this infinite lush green meadow of your youth. You are a child and you feel the exuberance and the excitement of being in this meadow of being where you are right now. For where you are is the most beautiful place you can imagine being. And you are surrounded, immersed in this beautiful meadow. This meadow of promise, this meadow of a thousand discoveries. This is no analogy. This is your life. It is lush and rich with promise. The promise of just starting out, taking the first steps as a child knows every step is its first step in a new rich green moist meadow of being.

Yourself as the waves upon the shore refresh yourself. Breathe now. Breathe in. Breathe out. Again, a new reality, new playmates, new lives, new loves, new children. Breathe. Realize the giddiness, the heaviness, the richness, the fertility of life, the fertility of your being. You are a womb of creation, giving birth to a new child. You are the child you always wanted to be. Right now, you are that child forever. It never ends. It never ends. It never ends. It only changes but always in while of childlike fascination. Always. Always. Always observe, invite, invite, accept. Allow yourself to know what a child knows. To acknowledge what a child acknowledges, to accept what a child accepts. To integrate what a child integrates, to love what a child loves. To excite yourself because every moment is the playground of new discovery, new challenge, new growth, new life. Love as a child. Love unconditionally forever. Forever. Wave after wave of love. Breathe three times and lock the love in. Lock the child within you and free the child within you. You are a child of the universe. Open your eyes and see with the eyes of a child. Everything is new. Everything is bold. Everything is painted in rich and bright colors. Feel the child you are that loves all other children, all other adults, all realities, all beings that loves itself as it loves the light.

You are children. Refresh yourselves and in your break play as children play. Release as children release. We will reconvene with the idea of finding your abundance of self and blending your polarity of beingness. For now, laugh as children laugh. Feel the joy. Tickle yourselves and feel the glee of release. Use this time of your break to create in your imagination the scenarios you will create, that you will act out, that you will manifest. Create the sandboxes in which you will play. Create the props that you will build. Design the reality you will create from this moment forward. Indulge yourselves. Enjoy the selves that you are. 


### **Phase 3: Abundance, Polarity, and Integration**

we have discussed the idea of awakening the child that you are, now that you have allowed yourself to begin to experience the release of that energy, and now that you can begin to imagine, allowing that energy out in a day-to-day basis, applying it to your circumstances and situations. Allow us to discuss another level of intimacy so that you can be in touch with the idea of all the abundance and richness of treasures within each and every one of you. So that you will all know that everything you want is accessible to you because you already contain it.

Now that you have engineered and begun to design the idea of the childhood you prefer, allow us to remind you now and to design with you the idea of the adult that is the result of that child that you have now created. No matter what childhood you think you had, no matter what you think did or did not happen in that childhood, that childhood is not necessarily any longer what led to the adult that you can design yourself to be. Now you have now designed a new childhood and you can allow that new childhood to be what progresses into the adult you can define yourself to be at present. You can begin to find a new understanding of intimacy within yourself. And in the blending of the polarities of your male and female aspects and in the allowance of that new marriage and that new intimacy within yourselves, you can begin to discover the rich treasure that you are. And you can begin to discover how to manifest that treasure in any number of ways in your life physiologically.

Begin by once again allowing your eyelids to flutter into a dreamlike sleep. Close them, relax them, relax your bodily form, and allow yourself to drift to your centered place of peace. Once again, take with you to that place of centered peace the happiness that you felt as the child, the likeness of being, the joy of being, the simplicity of being. And while retaining that simplicity of being, see yourself now standing approximately 10 ft in front of yourself. The body, the body that is representative of the facet, the fragment, the persona that you are. See that body standing approximately 10 ft from yourself and explore the idea of that body presentation of that body consciousness. Explore the idea of the spirit that you are as it manifests itself in that bodily form.

Walk over to that body. Know that it is conscious. Know that it is alive. But for now, simply allow that it will observe you. As you observe it, walk all the way around that body. Observe it from every angle you can observe it from. Relate to it. Acknowledge it. Observe it from above. Observe it from below. Float above the body and look down. Float underneath the body and look up. All angles in space and time. See the body as it grew from the new childhood into the present idea. See the present idea as the result of the new childhood you have created, not the result of the old childhood or aspects of the old childhood you no longer prefer. See the body that you are, the consciousness that you are as the result of the joyful childhood so that you are now a joyful adult.

Go back to your starting position. Still seeing the reflection of your body consciousness standing approximately 10 of your feet in front of you. Observe that body. Observe those eyes observing you back and see the love in the reflection of your eyes as those eyes observe you. Allow that body now to come to you and walk all around you. Allow that body to observe you in any way, shape or form it cares to because it is looking upon you with love. As you return that love and now you have the opposite point of view. You now know that you are the body being observed. You now know you are the result of that childhood. You now know you are the idealized new crystallized loving body state consciousness. Watch as the other body floats above and looks down, floats below and looks above and observes you from every angle and goes back to its starting point 10 ft from you.

And now allow yourself to feel the magnetic attraction between you and acknowledge that you will now walk towards each other to a place in the center approximately 5 ft from both of you. And with each step you take closer and closer to that center point, you send wave upon wave of acknowledgment and love and forgiveness for anything that you believe was a negative idea that was chosen by that body in the past. Forgiveness and acceptance, acknowledgment, invitation and integration. You walk and you open your arms towards your own reflection. And as you meet in the center, you embrace and you hug with love and assurance that all is well, that all is one, that all is a reflection of all else. And as you embrace and as you feel the love, you feel your hearts pressing together and the hearts beat as one. As one, as one. And you melt into each other's arms, embracing and loving and forgiving your reflection and feeling the self-worth and the love coming back from your own reflection, feeling the deservability in the exchange of love of self. And as you hold each other, you move closer and closer still until you blend and melt into each other and become one, one whole idea.

And as you become one whole idea, you turn and you look and 10 ft from you is another body. But not one like before, this one now has the appearance of your sexual opposite. This now body looks as if you would have appeared had you been born your sexual opposite. If you are female, this body now appears to be the way you would have appeared had you been born male. If you are male, this body now appears the way you would have appeared had you been born a female. It is your identical twin but a sexual opposite. And you walk toward that body as it stands still for you, observing you with wise eyes, with knowing eyes. Even if you observe it with wise eyes, knowing eyes. And you walk all around that sexual opposite, that mirror reflection, that polarity being. And you observe from all angles and you acknowledge it and get used to it and familiarize yourself with that polarity and float above and look down and float below and look up. And you orbit around and you acknowledge all the differences and you acknowledge all the similarities and you observe that body observing you. And you go back to your starting point 10 ft away and you invite your polarity reflection to come up to you and allow it to move all around you and observe you in like kind in like manner. And you radiate love and you radiate allowance and you radiate acceptance of self in this polarity format. And you allow it to observe you from all directions and to go back to its starting point 10 ft from you.

And with your eyes and with your hearts, you send each other a signal that it is all right to approach the central point 5 ft in the middle. And with each step you take, you may feel a few apprehensions and a few fears come up. But you observe them and you acknowledge them and you invite them and you accept them and you integrate them and you forgive all transgressions of the polarity. You forgive all transgressions of negativity. You forgive all choices because they have been usable to you. And as you approach the center, you open your arms wide and you embrace and you cry and you share and you release upon each other's shoulders and you forgive and you accept the power of the polarity, the male and the female, the female and the male. And you feel your chests pressing together and your heartbeat beating, vibrating as one. As one. As one. As one. As one. And you float in your embrace in a dreamlike state as you dance. As you dance, as you dance. And you hold each other closer and closer and you blend and merge as one. And you marry each other and become one heart, one mind, one body, one spirit, one soul, one being, one love, one single blended, homogeneous, loving, ecstatic light.

And as you blend, you see yourself radiating a brilliant white light that shines like a beacon, that shines like a lamp, that shines like a candle, and radiates out like a bubble, and dispels all shadows, all darkness, all doubt. And you are loved and loving. And you are fulfilled and fulfilling. You are radiant light and radiant love. You are the marriage of the infinite. Dance and spin in magnetic joy as electromagnetic light. Dance. Light. Dance. Create your own music and dance as one spinning over the crystalline surface of your new reality. And as you spin as one marriage, as one idea, as you throw off light, the light that you throw off crystallizes into new children, new ideas, new creations, new abundance, infinite treasures that you contain. And you display them all before you. And you are rich with promise, infinite in being, eternal in scope. There is no end to your creativity. There never will be. You draw from the depths of eternity and give birth to the children of light, the children of love. You are those children. Nurture yourself and feel yourself wrapped in the arms of creation and sent wave after wave of warmth and love. You are the womb of your own birth. You are the marriage of forever.

Breathe now. Breathe now. Breathe the marriage. Breathe the light. Deeply drink of these ideas deeply. Drink of this life. Breathe it. As you breathe in, you are the crucible. Your heart on fire with desire for all manifestation and abundance and joy and ecstasy. As you breathe in, the fire and the crucible of your heart melts down all old reality into liquid light. And as you breathe out, you use that liquid and spin off the light and crystallize the new children, the new reality, the new life. You are the forge. You are the crucible. You are the fire, the seed of desire and manifestation itself. You are born a new, pure and clear without a shadow of a doubt. Without a shadow of a doubt, without a shadow of a doubt, a shadow of a doubt. Our love, love, our blessings to you all. Blink and open your eyes and feel free and light and enlightened. You are made of new stuff. You are no longer as dense. You are spinning more freely with less friction. You are radiant light. Our love to you all. You are transformation. You are transformation. Dynamic transformation and transformation.


### **Closing Meditation: The Fabric of Consciousness**

You are ancient. We are ancient. You are old. We are old. You are eternal. We are eternal. You are one. We are one. Allow yourself the projection of linear time back, back, back as far as your imagination can go. Wave after wave of linear time. Project, project, project. Now in your imagination, now in the center of the crystal that you are, now in the time in which you exist, in the here and the now. Project. Project into the idea you have called the past. Into the idea you have called the future. Project as far as fast as you can go. You are a beam of light in both directions simultaneously into the future, into the past. You are now a burst of light simultaneously. All dimensions. All directions. Project. Project. Beams of light racing as fast as you can imagine. It is possible to race in all directions. Project. Project. Faster and faster. Farther and farther. As fast than as far as you can go. Imagine. Imagine. A factor of 10, a factor of a thousand, a factor of a million. Farther and farther. And yet and yet there is never never never an end. Never never never a beginning. Only all that is and the center of all that is where you are.

You are ancient. We are ancient. You are eternal. We are eternal. You are the fabric of consciousness. You are the dreams of God dreaming itself in all the ways it can possibly dream itself to be. You are the canvas. You are the paint. You are the book. You are the ink. You are the printed word and the idea. You are the press. And you read yourselves and create the stories of your lives, the stories of your beings, and create the libraries of your existences, the libraries of your world that can be read by consciousness anywhere, everywhere. You are storehouses of knowledge. You are creators of knowledge. You are imprinters of patterns upon the records of space and time, upon the records of existence itself. You are readable. You are creators, dynamic existence, transformational creators. You are expansive. Your body does not contain your spirit. Your body does not contain your consciousness. Consciousness contains all the concepts of your body, all the concepts of your persona. You are projections of your spirit, manifestations of your spirit, manifestations of your consciousness. You are expansive. You are focused. You are polarized. You are one. You are limited and unlimited. You are day and you are night. You are not this or that. You are this and that. You are all that you can imagine yourself to be. You are everything you are capable of conceiving. You can forget. You can remember. You can live. You can pretend to die. But you do not die. You never die. You always exist.

Blink and create new universal reality. For you are the fabric of existence. You are the fabric of consciousness itself. You are always walking through new doors. And the doors are infinite in all directions. You ride the waves of space and time. You ride the waves of space and time. Even as you create them before you, even as you create them within you, even as you create them behind you, you are them and they are you. You are waves upon wave of idea interacting intersecting all one giving form and expression to itself, giving truth and validity to itself, supporting itself, being itself, existing as itself in all the ways that it can. This is how we see you. This is how we see us and all dimensions and levels of being. You are light.

Close your eyes now and absorb three of your breaths. Create the scenario around you as follows. You are on a bench of your own design, sitting on a street of your own design, surrounded by trees of your own design, observing a building across the street of your own design. And you observe windows through which you can see many beings in the building, going about their business, focused in their own way, doing things of their own design, following their own stories, reading the books that they are. And you desire with your curiosity and your fascination to know what they are doing, to share and enjoy, to absorb and to learn. And so you create, you manifest a telescope of your own design, a binocular of your own design, a looking glass of your own design. And you hold it up to your eye so that it within there is a magnification of the image of a window of a room of the building across your street.

And as you peer, you are fascinated and you follow the comings and the goings of many of the beings in the buildings as they go about their business. And you lower the telescope. You lower the glass from time to time so that you can gain perspective of where you are and where they are. But so that you can know that at any moment according to your own timing and your own desire, you can raise the glass once again and see and experience the magnification of all that takes place in yonder building. And you become more and more fulfilled of curiosity. And more and more do you delve to see the magnification of all taking place within that building. And you peer from window to window until you are absorbed by the images you see. Until the magnification is all there is and you have quite forgotten that you are on the bench across the street from the building that you are observing.

And you see a book and you see a television screen and you see an information source and it rivets your attention and you see that there is information coming across this screen and with all your desire you wish to focus upon that information for you know it will tell you many things. It will open up all that you have called secret, all that you have called occult, all that you have called hidden and will be clear and applicable and precise. And all that matters to you now is the magnification of that screen, of that book, of that information. And you see it closer and closer and closer until it fills your vision and closer and closer and yet the words are still not distinct. So you magnify again and again and closer until it seems as if your very eyes, your very vision is simply moments away from the page. Moments away from the screen, mere fractions and fragments of an inch away, and you become closer, and the words magnify. And finally, you can see them, you can read them, and the words simply say, "Turn around."

And your vision scans around to look back out the window of the building. And lo and behold, there you are on the bench with a telescope. But your vision and your sight is now independently detached. You have expanded the bubble of your consciousness and you are now roaming and roving as remote sense itself. You are now creating the reality with an expanded awareness, an expanded definition by knowing that you can magnify and expand your reality in any way, shape or form you wish. And you can explore the building with your vision alone, with a projection of your sense alone. And this gives you ecstasy and joy. And you roam and shoot at amazing speed through the building, absorbing all the knowledge, interacting with all the people, fascinated and curious by all that you see.

And then you allow yourself to float or snap back to the focus of being on the bench. And you lower the glass and the building no longer appears as just a building. But you understand it is your gateway to all knowledge, your gateway to all information. And that at any time using this symbol, using this tool, you can magnify its location to you. You can project your senses and be within that information and allow that information to be within you. There is no effort required but only the joy of desire and curiosity. Only the fascination that turns the key and unlocks the lock to all doors. Only that is is your legacy. That is your birthright. That is your ecstasy. Be that vibration. Be that magnification. Be living light. Accelerate and ascend. Arise within yourselves and create the new heights to which you will aspire by being the vibration of inspiration. Inspire and share and serve. Love and light and light is what you are.

Breathe three times and open your eyes if they are not already open. And once again know beyond a shadow of a doubt that you are looking upon a new manifestation, a new reality, a new dimension, a new earth. You are not the same. You are not the same. You are not the same as you used to be. You are new printing on new pages of new books. Read the story you have decided to be. Be that story. Our unconditional support, our unconditional love, our unconditional joy, our unconditional manifestation to you all. Be at ease for a moment. [Applause]

***

### **Final Address: The Solar Wind and The Challenge**

The entity that you understand as Bashar has explained many times the idea of the vehicle, the vessel, the ship that is called the solar wind. You may address the idea of myself for now for the moment as a convenient label as the captain. Allow us simply to extend to each and every one of you as individuals the challenge of matching the vibrations that you have been given and to meet that challenge and arise to that challenge by matching those vibrations out of the energy of your own being. Be that challenge. Walk that challenge. The conviction of that challenge as your own ships, as your own realities, as you project yourselves into other dimensions and other frequencies of being. Even as we in the city ship of the solar wind project into other dimensions and interact with other beings and other consciousnesses to form the one association of worlds that together that we are so that we may serve and be of benefit to you all. Serve and be of benefit to each other.

We extend this challenge to you to be the true members of the Association of Worlds by acting with the conviction that you know is your due, the conviction that you know is your right and the service that you know it is in your terms your duty to perform. By supporting the whole, you will support yourselves. Have no fear of that. We extend this vibration and we extend this challenge not as an idea of effort, not as an idea of struggle, not as an idea of demeanment of you, but we extend it as a challenge of joy, a challenge of growth and a challenge of new horizons of exploration. We thank you for boarding the craft of your own beings and for the creation of your own craft that ascends to new heights and new realms and new dimensions of experience. We extend our greeting and we thank you at this timing.

Allow yourselves now to know beyond a shadow of a doubt that you are children of creation, that you are aspects of the eternal beingness of all that is. We cannot share this reflection with you enough. Whatever will trigger, whatever will catalyze, whatever will crystallize this understanding of action, this understanding of conviction within you, let it happen. Allow it to happen. For you will know joy as you have not experienced for millennium. Allow yourself to dive into that experience. Do not fear. Remember, there is nothing you will ever discover, nothing you will ever experience about yourself that cannot be applied in an ecstatic way. Choose through conviction. Choose through clarity the reality you desire. Live it, be it, and manifest the world that you want. Remember that abundance is simply the ability to be what you want to be when you decide to be it.

Our love to you all, our joy to you all, and our thanks and gratitude to you all for the co-creation. And remember, if you feel the tears of release at any time, those truly are prayers of identification with all that is. Gratitude is the final key. Share from all the treasures you have been given, from all the gifts that you have and the gifts that you are. We thank you for allowing us to share with you. And remember, one of the greatest gifts that you can give is to allow others to give to you. Love yourselves. Love all that is. And all will flow as one. It is a promise. It is a guarantee.


