---
heading: Part 1
title: "Amplifying first contact"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2016-10-15
icon: Bashar
weight: 972
showdate: true
---



### **Conversation 20: Germany, Excitement, and Permission Slips**

**Questioner:** I'd call myself a happy child, because uh, even if the circumstances are not that good, I still feel this happiness

**Bashar:** That's because state of being is, in a sense, more powerful than the circumstances. Circumstances do not create state of being; state of being creates circumstances.

**Questioner:** When circumstances was bad and I still felt good, I felt like something was wrong with me.

**Bashar:** But circumstances are not inherently bad. They're just neutral. You're the one that decides to give them a negative or a positive definition. Circumstances are just circumstances.

**Questioner:** my mom used to tell me, "Oh, sweetie, don't get so excited all of the time." I didn't understand it, because to me it was a natural state of being to be excited.

**Bashar:** Exactly. It's your natural state.

The only reason that she was telling you that is because she didn't give you the complete toolkit. Because the true state of excitement, you can't be hurt. Otherwise, you're not really in the state of true excit... true alignment.

**Questioner:** But I realized that uh, whenever I'm excited now, and for example, I am not only wanting to, but I will spread what you um, teach us in my country, which is uh, Germany. I just don't know in which way I shall do it, because I do not want to interfere with my opinion in what you say. Because what you say is clear and absolutely powerful.

**Bashar:** But you have to put it into your own words. You have to make it your own truth. And that means it will then come out in the way that it needs to, and it will be an honest representation of what you have made true for yourself. So if you're living it, that's the best example of all. Sometimes you don't even have to say anything. Just show people what you're like when you're living it, and they will come to you and say, "How are you doing this? How are you living such a life of joy and abundance?" 

They'll want to know. And then you can simply tell them in your own words how it works.

**Questioner:** I had all these people telling me, "Oh, don't be so excited," and "Just stay with what you do, don't change your mind like every five minutes," 

I started to have this um, blockage, I'd say, in my head, that whenever I'm excited, I can't really, you know, let the energy flow in a way that people go with me. I just overrun them.


**Bashar:** Well, that's not excitement [dharma] either. Excitement [Dharma] brings a balanced state of expression. Not an overwhelming one. 

So what is that overwhelming coming from? Do you think the fact that you are blocking the natural excitement, you're resisting the natural excitement, you're overcompensating? 

You've been told not to be excited, but you know you wish to be, but now you're overly excited.

You're not really excited; you're just overly compensating the energy and actually going into anxiety. Like, "I have to be excited, I have to be excited, I have to be excited." 

That's not excitement [dharma]. That's just being manic. Excitement has a naturally balancing energy to it.

**Questioner:** Well, I do feel excitement uh, right now, but it's in a... it's in a calm and loving way.

**Bashar:** Exactly. And that's more real as an expression and more accurate as an expression of excitement.

**Questioner:** So when I was talking with friends about um, the UFO sighting I had, yes, I was kind of very couraged, because um, I was raised to be very rational, and only while being rational and good I got love, and you know, yes, from my parents. So um, I do know that, but I still have uh, I have the problem with uh...

**Bashar:** Then you need to find the belief systems within you and reveal them to yourself so you can let them go. When you allow them to appear nonsensical, this is your process. It's all right to be in process. That's your life. That's fine. There's no rush. You're an infinite, eternal, indestructible being. What's your hurry? No hurry. Then be here now. Mhm. And stay in a balanced state of expression of your excitement.

**Questioner:** So would you say that, for example, um, meditation would be...

**Bashar:** That's your permission slip. It's a permission you have to attract yourself to. What permission slip works for you with your belief system? All things are permission slips. All tools, all techniques, all rituals, all objects—they're all permission slips. Use the one that works best for you until you realize you're the one giving yourself permission anyway, and don't need the permission slip anymore.

**Questioner:** That would lead me to the question uh, I asked whether it would be meditation, because um, in the beautiful movie you showed yesterday, um, Daryl was um, during meditation, um, got contact uh, well, was able to make contact with you. So this is something I realize I really, I really wish um, to have contact.

**Bashar:** You are having contact right now.

**Questioner:** Yes. But I can't take you with me.

**Bashar:** Yes, you can. That's a belief system. All you have to do is understand, number one, you're speaking to your own higher mind right now as well. You're just using me as an excuse to do so. Okay. And therefore, your own higher mind is with you all the time. So all you have to do is use the technique, the permission slip, of us. Mhm. To go at any moment. Hm. "What would Bashar say?"

**Questioner:** Yeah. I did so. I did so. And I actually I wanted to ask you whether the answers I got were from your higher mind.

**Bashar:** Okay. And then um, I'm not going to ask you can take it with you. Okay. And it... it's true. Because if I would ask you the question now, that how can I tell that it's not what I wish to hear is what I hear, but that it is what you know... it's you or my higher mind telling me... I start feeling the the difference. What is true.

**Bashar:** And all right. You will get what you need. You will get what you need. And trust that instead of trusting something you don't prefer.



### Norway, Meat Consumption, and Introversion

**Questioner:** After 20 years of listening to you, I would finally get to a state with a grandiose question or something.

**Bashar:** But not necessarily. if you're making statements that are true for you, you don't need to ask questions. The idea is to understand that you can answer all your questions.

**Questioner:** I have been able to do so. And your voice is constantly in my head answering most of my questions.

my excitement right now is cutting down on the meat consumption. my meditations are getting more and more um, exciting. 

you explained excitement as nothing... doesn't have to be dancing around, and this is my kind of excitement, leading up to maybe a question. I don't know. But um, well, why don't you get... feel maybe uh, that I am a little bit more introvert than the common people uh, that I interact with? Uh, so is that uh, yeah...

**Bashar:** Well, is it the product of a negative belief about yourself, or is it simply natural for you?

**Questioner:** I... I think it is natural.

**Bashar:** Then you can roll with that for the moment.

**Questioner:** I don't feel any connections to the hybrid program. But maybe I should ask a little question around that anyway. Anyhow, just for the curiosity. Is that okay?


**Questioner:** How did I fall for that after so many years?

**Bashar:** I don't know. It has to be me standing up here making me a little anxious, perhaps.

**Questioner:** Yes. Um, well... um, the answer is really no. Not in the way that most people mean it.

**Questioner:** Yeah. That... by... so does that answer your question? It does. Uh, a little question about uh, the fall of...

**Bashar:** You're not getting any information on that.

**Questioner:** No. No. Okay. We have to allow things to unfold. Okay. Last one. Uh, P. The last one was question. I thought you didn't have any.

**Questioner:** Well, it pops up as a... right. Yeah. Yeah. And so uh, pineal gland. Yes. The pineal gland. Pineal gland. Uh... any... I... I understand that this is a very important tool.

**Bashar:** Yes. Well, it produces the N,N-Dimethyltryptamine, DMT, that allows you to perceive into other dimensions, especially the idea of your dream time and allowance of encounters in other realms and realities. Yes. So the idea of focusing on that to some degree, in whatever permission slip way you prefer to, can increase your ability to perceive interdimensionally more precisely and more often. I... but it's up to you.

**Questioner:** Yes. I have experienced this once, but that was during uh, Ayahuasca. Yes.

**Bashar:** Uh, and the teachers of the Earth can bring you these abilities, but teach you also that you can achieve these states on your own without the teacher.


### Hybrid Children, The Sphinx, and Mass Consciousness

**Questioner:** Do I have hybrid children? Do you have hybrid children?

**Bashar:** Yes. You have three that are listening in.

**Questioner:** can you tell me age of of these three?

**Bashar:** 7, 13, 17.

**Questioner:** Thank you. And maybe same question but regarding my wife. Is there any children of her?

**Bashar:** Yes. Well, some of the same that you share. Okay. That's enough. And others that you don't.

**Questioner:** Okay. It's okay. Where did your minds go with that?

**Bashar:** Remember that genetic material used in the hybridization agenda is spread around quite a bit. Yes. But if you... if you mix it with your idea of the big family, that every adult is parenting to every child, is quite okay.

**Questioner:** Yes. So next question would be about the Sphinx. Because the Sphinx, yes, some years ago you have mentioned some probability that we will find something under it. And what is the result? And Y question is: what's the result? What was there?

**Bashar:** There are records there. Yeah.

**Questioner:** And is it uh, discovered already, or is it still hidden, or there are people that know about it but haven't told anyone?

**Bashar:** Yeah. So it's not public. Not public, but it has been discovered.

**Questioner:** Yeah. Is it Emerald Tables?

**Bashar:** No. No. Okay. Not all of it has been deciphered either.

**Questioner:** Yes. Most of it has not.

**Bashar:** But you will find in there records of Atlantis. You will find many of the things that were destroyed in the Library of Alexandria, among other things.

**Questioner:** And is there any any evidence about the ET?

**Bashar:** In a sense, yes. There is talk about beings that actually are references to extraterrestrials, but that may not be completely obvious at first when you read the texts. Yes. You'll have to see deeper, as you say, read between the lines. Yes. Because there are many references to the idea of extraterrestrial beings that are referred to in your literature as gods. Not that we are, but many of the people back then referred to extraterrestrials that way.

**Questioner:** Okay. Um, next question would be about the mass consciousness. Mass consciousness. Yes. Uh, because I don't understand the the exact relationship of the unique person. So is there any limitation that you have to wait for M Consciousness to...

**Bashar:** To you? You don't always have to wait. But there are things, obviously, you have agreed to abide by in the consensus reality. But they are usually, at this point, relatively basic. You can still experience everything you need to experience that's relevant for you as an individual, even within the mass consensus reality. But there are things you're going to abide by in the mass consensus, because that's the general game that you're playing. In other words, look at the mass consensus reality as the concept of playing the game of chess. You do have to follow certain rules in order to be playing the game of chess. But how you play, your strategies, what kind of pieces you use, what they're made of—that's up to you as an individual. So you can have a lot of individuality, but you're still on a chessboard playing by the rules of chess. That doesn't stop you from playing the way you need to play.

**Questioner:** Yes. I guess it was my choice to to choose this reality.

**Bashar:** Everything is a choice.

**Questioner:** And is it coming from the template level?

**Bashar:** Well, it's from the spirit level, which includes the template reality.

**Questioner:** Yes. And because you know, I don't like the idea that there is something written that I can...

**Bashar:** It's not meant that way. It's not meant that way. It's not that rigid.

**Questioner:** Yeah. So... so for example, I can change it in the... in my dream states?

**Bashar:** Yes. You can.

**Questioner:** Yes. But this is why this is happening now. Now, it's giving you the understanding that you have more control and more freedom than you've been taught. Now you can change your themes in the middle of a physical life without having to die in order to do it. There are many things now you have the freedom to do, if you understand that you have these freedoms, if you start redefining what the reality is to you. So there are many more things now that can be done than could be done before.

**Questioner:** Yes. So it's more flexible now.

**Bashar:** Much more flexible now.

**Questioner:** Makes sense. Yes. And probably last question: uh, if somebody is uh, incarnated, and you... you are saying that everything is neutral, the situation that we are... we are giving the meaning. But you know, when you are giving it the meaning, that doesn't mean you can't recognize the difference between mechanically positive energy and mechanically negative energy.

**Bashar:** But that's not a value judgment. It's a recognition that negative energy, negative mechanics, is that which disconnects, segregates, gives that experience. Whereas positive energy gives the experience of connection, integration, and expansion. These are just mechanical descriptions of the way the energy works.

**Questioner:** Yeah. But when a human being starts his life, who is defining the the world around you?

**Bashar:** You know, from the spirit, you define and choose the theme. Then, as the physical being, you will play out that theme. How you play it out is up to your free will, but you will play out that theme, because that theme defines you as this unique perspective. You are a theme of exploration of a higher level of your consciousness. But remember, physical reality is a dream.

**Questioner:** Yep. So... so just to have an example, for example... *[Music]* ...if... if you eat chocolate, you will die. So... or or something like chocolate is not healthy. So... so who is defining this?

**Bashar:** So it may be part of the theme that you have to explore these ideas and find what kinds of reactions you have to these things, because they may be symbolic of a theme you are exploring about what is and isn't relevant for your life, or what is and isn't positive for the theme that you're exploring.

**Questioner:** Yes. So... so it's all included.

**Bashar:** It's all included. Yes.

