---
heading: Part 3 of The 5 Levels of Mastery
title: "JFK and The Grays"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2016-12-04
icon: Bashar
weight: 1110
showdate: true
---




### **Q&A Session 6: Disclosure, JFK and The Grays**

**Participant:** The presidents were aware of your... of the existence of ETs since the time of Truman, and I would like more an understanding of what the big issue is about keeping this... this big secret.

**Bashar:** At the time, there was a lot of fear and paranoia. you had just come out of what you would call a World War. 

it was simply deemed that the populace couldn't handle something that large at that time because they had yet to really integrate and assimilate the effects of the war. 

But a plan was made to overtime release the information. Now, other people sort of got a hold of that and had a difference of opinion about whether that should be released or not, and eventually they came to be the ones that would be in power and control that information, because then it became an issue of keeping the information from others, especially the technological information, so that they would perceive that others would not have a technological advantage over others.


**Participant:** Is it true that Eisenhower met with them and made a deal for uh, to allow ET presence for the sharing of their technology?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant:** And talking about President Kennedy now. Kennedy... there was the Cold War going on, and Kennedy and Russia were concerned because the radar could not distinguish the um, ETs from, you know, the different missiles, and they didn't want to start a war accidentally.

**Bashar:** Yes. We understand how our ships work. 

but we couldn't identify you, and so we didn't want to think the US was firing. 

Kennedy put through an order to have um, our information shared with the Russians in order that we would not make this accidental War. 

However, he was killed before the order was in the reality you understand now.

**Participant:** Exactly. That's in other reality?

**Bashar:** No. What happened in the other reality where he did not die? 

He revealed the information. But in that reality, the information was revealed too soon and actually did cause a breakdown of your Society, for which he was then killed 5 years later because he was blamed for it.

Because your people were not ready for the information. They didn't know how to integrate it because they had never been prepared properly to integrate the information of our extraterrestrial presence. 

Now there are other parallel realities where everything went just fine. I see. But that was the reality, just to speak linearly for a moment, that was the reality that was immediately preceding the history that you all changed to to have him die before he was capable of revealing the information so your society would not collapse. 

However, there were still ripples from the reality in which he was killed later in 1968, and those ripples that entered your reality as you know it now, and your history as you know it now, was responsible for the assassination of his brother and the individual known as Martin Luther King.

so you see how these things overlap.


**Participant:** You say that Kennedy, his brother, and Martin Luther King were killed so that this information would not come out. 


Yes. The original president. Not the others in the other realities.

Oh, the original... you're just saying Kennedy, just JFK as you know him. Okay. Because I thought I heard you say Robert also.


**Bashar:** The reflection from the old reality where JFK was killed in 1968 still existed as a ripple in the new reality, and that ripple caused the idea of Robert Kennedy and Martin Luther King to then be assassinated. It was in a sense a remnant or a residue from the old timeline.

Because you see, your history changes all the time. You think it's static; it's not. It's dynamic. 

But you only remember the history that you've recently created as if that's always been your history and have no real memory of the other history that might have actually been here 5 minutes ago, where you might have had a completely different reality. 

But as a consensus agreed to shift that history, so now you may have a completely different history, even though history, by definition, will seem to have always been the history you had, even though it wasn't.

This is what you begin to understand when you learn to perceive things multi-dimensionally.

**Participant:** So there are realities in which we already have had first Contact.

**Bashar:** Absolutely. And continued beyond that. That's what you're shifting toward if you stay in the vibration that is representative of that reality. 

Because remember, you never change the world you're on. You change your vibration, and you shift yourself to other versions of Earth that are already more reflective of the change you made within yourself. 

The world you were on still remains the same and never changes. Because you're changing billions of times a second right now, even to create the side effect you call time and space. 

So you're navigating through a series of versions of Earth like frames on a film strip, navigating through that timeline, but you're always moving through a different version, a different parallel version of Earth. 

And you navigate more and more in the direction of whatever your strongest state of being vibration is. That's what guides you. That's your rudder, okay? And it is the wind in your sail.


**Participant:** So if I am already following my excitement to the best of my ability without expected outcomes...

**Bashar:** You are navigating along a series of timelines that will ultimately allow you to experience only those versions of Earth that are more and more and more reflective of the reality you prefer, based on the state of being you prefer.

**Participant:** So that I will eventually get into these other realities in which there is contact and life has progressed from there with the ETs?

**Bashar:** Yes, if you allow yourself to continue in each moment to recreate the vibration of your preference. That will be one of the things contained within it, because that's one of the things that is contained within the definition of your excitement, as it is with ours.

So you are helping us get there by giving you this information and seeing what you do with it and how much of it you absorb. You then make the change in your own frequency that brings you closer and closer and closer to the vibration of contact.

**Bashar:** Yes. Okay. Not that you have to. Right, right. Well, but if you do, then you are accepting the vibration of contact more and more into your being. Yes. That's what this exchange is all about. This is one of the protocols of how we do first Contact. We give you the option to choose, based on the information we share, as to whether you actually want to adopt that information or not and have contact or not. It's always left up to you.

**Participant:** So that those of us who are proceeding along with that... that 90-day experiment are expressing the fact we want to get into this reality.

**Bashar:** Is a reflection of your passion. 

**Participant:**  Ronald Reagan, who had experienced um, ET... he had seen him... um, is it true that he took Jackie Gleason, his friend, and they observe some things?

**Bashar:** Yes. 

**Participant:** And also, what happened when Admiral uh, Byrd went to the Antarctic to explore some activity that was reported there?

**Bashar:** Some members encountered a certain kind of energy portal or vortex that allowed them to experience a shift to another dimension of reality temporarily. 

**Participant:** So Byrd was in another reality, but he came back?

**Bashar:** Yes, to ours. everything is actually new, but in the way that you mean it linearly, that was the effect, yes, that you perceived. Okay. When... but again, remember, it wasn't the same person.

**Participant:** Oh, it wasn't the same Admiral Byrd you're saying? Because every second is a new Admiral Byrd, just like every second is a new you?

**Bashar:** Exactly. We mean this quite literally.

**Participant:** When President Carter was given the information, he was uh, given a briefing about the ET situation. Yes. Why did he become so emotional and actually even put his head on his desk and cried? What was so critical about the information that he was given that caused him to react like that?

**Bashar:** The Gray civilization destroyed their version of Earth, okay, and mutated themselves in that way in order to survive, thus tunneling into other parallel realities to use viable human DNA since they could no longer reproduce, to create our hybrid societies, which then allow them to perpetuate their culture.

The information is that you were heading down the same path. Destroying ourselves again. Yes. And actually going to replicate that history in your own reality and eventually become Grays yourselves if you continued down that destructive path.

**Participant:** So have we changed our path?

**Bashar:** Some of you have. Some of you haven't.

**Participant:** Okay. Why is it that the CIA is controlling and holding back all of the information?

**Bashar:** The CIA isn't. It's a different organization altogether that most of you have no awareness of. We don't call it anything Because we don't focus on it.

**Participant:** So you don't want to tell me what it is so I won't focus on it.

**Bashar:** Correct.

**Participant:** why have we gone back to the atomic bomb to then start our transitioning in this reality? 

**Participant:** the transition began when the atomic bomb was dropped? 

But what do you mean by going back to it? Um, that we are changing that... we are um, our technologies are changing, we're growing, we're realizing different things.

**Bashar:** Yes. But what are you asking? 

Why did the timeline start? What was so important about the dropping of the atomic bomb that started trans... what? 

The effects would be and allowed you to understand whether or not you really wanted to continue down that path.

**Participant:** So that was to give us a picture of what could happen if we keep going where we're going.

**Bashar:** Yes. Therefore, all of the... the world tries not to... another one. 

However, it's been many, many years since that idea of global thermonuclear war would actually be possible, because it has also been demonstrated by many beings from other civilizations that you would not be allowed to launch such a war now. 

It doesn't mean you can't have isolated nuclear strikes here and there, terrorist acts, and so forth. Mhm. But global nuclear war? No. Because it will not be allowed, because a global thermonuclear war would rip through the fabric of different space-time dimensions and affect more than just you. 

So your military has been shown many, many times by different space vehicles of extraterrestrial origin hovering over your missile silos that we have the ability to completely scramble and erase your launch codes. Yes. This has been shown many times. Yes. So global nuclear war is not in the cards for you. Okay. The machines just don't work. The buttons don't work when you're... the missiles won't launch. Yes.


**Participant:** Another concern is that the media and film industry shows movies like *Colony* or whatever. They're showing the fact that there is contact, but there's so much... they're fear-based.

**Bashar:** It's interesting, though, isn't it, that those are the ones you gravitate to instead of the ones that give you a positive message?

you're focused on the negative.

**Participant:** Is there a force working against those that will gravitate to that? Will gravitate to that? 

**Bashar:** Those that won't, won't. Choose what you prefer, vibrationally speaking. And that is actually what I wanted to... he... there is a contact film that exists right now in your society that actually will give you a much better idea of the depth of what a real interaction with an extraterrestrial civilization would be like. It's called *Arrival*.

**Bashar:** When... not allow your energy and your vibration to align with ideas and stories like that, instead. Okay. And that will make all the difference. Instead of focusing on what you typically would call conspiracies, okay, because that will take you down a path, I guarantee you, you do not want to walk down. Right. And you must understand, as we have said before, the beings that you are on your planet assigning great power to don't have as much power as they would like you to believe they have, but they do control media in a way to make you think they do. So don't play the game of falling into what they want you to believe they're able to do. They're actually not able to do. Okay. Okay. So don't play their game.


**Participant:** I know the soul leaves the body.

Not really. Well, at death, I know that that's the experience in the way you have it from linear perspective, but it's more just like your Consciousness expanding beyond the physical focus. Because your soul is not in your body; it's actually more accurate to say that your body is in your soul, because it's a crystallization of focus that happens within your Consciousness, which includes the soul and the oversoul and many other levels of your being. Okay.

**Participant:** So when we are created, when the energy, the Consciousness, and the physicality is created, at what point...

**Bashar:** Consciousness has always existed and is within a time frame. It appears as if your body is being created from within a time frame. 

It appears that you have a beginning and a middle and an end, right? But in terms of existence, there's no such thing. It all exists at once. In that what it appears in the physical world, yes, and you're born. Yes. At what point does the soul enter? 49 days from conception.

**Bashar:** Because that's when the brain structures that are capable of processing or expressing the idea of the Consciousness in the way that you would consider to be relevant actually form. 49 days on. 49 days in. Yes.

**Participant:** Okay. Well, I thank you for all of this. And by the way, yes, sir, even often up to the age of seven, there may still be what you would consider to be a very loose connection.

**Bashar:** Right. I have heard that. It doesn't really crystallize solidly until, for most people, about the age of seven on your planet. And that's why uh, children have memories, right? They are connecting to things more purely through the spirit realm and not forgetting as much of who they really are as a greater being.
