---
heading: Part 1
title: "Amplifying first contact"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2016-10-15
icon: Bashar
weight: 965
showdate: true
---



### **Conversation 7: Dancing, Music, and Near-Death Experience**

**Questioner:** how do you dance in your society? Because you're still quasi-physical, yes? Right? Yes. So what does the dance look like?

**Bashar:** It depends on the person and how they feel they wish to move. Mhm. Okay. There's no real structured sense of dancing. People will dance as they wish to dance. All right.

**Questioner:** you said the music that was mostly was um, the steel drum, and it's very, very simple. 

Mostly it's percussive. There is some wind, there is some string instruments, but it's very simplistic to you. 

But to us, we can hear many different harmonies within what you would perceive only as a single note. So there aren't any drums?

**Bashar:** Yes, yes. Simple drums. Okay. Yeah. Different kind. Not just the idea of what you call steel. We don't really have steel drums. It is made of a crystalline nanomaterial. 

**Questioner:** last year in August, I got stuck in a machine. Stuck a machine in a... well, it was an accident, and it was pretty exciting. 

Uh, I got stuck on a conveyor belt. It squeezed my leg. Oh. All right. And uh, and what popped out? 

Oh. Well, well, a lot of stuff I didn't need. And what was interesting about the experience was that um, at some point I could see myself lying on the floor and all the people around me helping me.

**Bashar:** Yes. You had an elevated point of view.

**Questioner:** Exactly. And it's... it yeah. It kind of... I could... I could like be the person that put on the movie instead of being the person playing it. And so what did that do for you in life?

**Questioner:** Well, it taught me that uh, I don't need to uh, go for jobs that pay a lot of money, but instead go for what excites you. Excitement, and you will be supported in whatever way you need to.

**Bashar:** Did it also remove any kind of concept that you have to be afraid of death?

**Questioner:** Not quite. Not quite. No.

**Bashar:** Not you're still afraid of death? Is that what you're saying?

**Questioner:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** Why? What are you afraid will happen? You know that all of you die billions of times a second.

**Questioner:** Well, that helps. Not so bad, is it?

**Bashar:** No. It's all right. Yeah. Still here, aren't you? Yeah. All right. You will always change. You're always dying. You're always being reborn billions of times per second. You're becoming a new person every moment, every moment, every moment, because you're shifting your consciousness through billions of parallel reality versions of yourself in order to create the side effect you call time and space and change. Okay? So you're dying all the time. So yet here you are. So... so what? Exactly. Okay. The most powerful mantra you can have: "So what?"

**Questioner:** Yes. Yeah. That's a favorite.

**Bashar:** Does that help?

**Questioner:** It does help. Yes.

**Questioner:** All right. Uh, talking about mantras, I'm following my excitement now, and in about 3 weeks I'll fly to India. Oh. All right. Go to the Himalayas. And um, is there anything you want to tell me about that?

**Bashar:** Have a good time. Okay. Discover more of yourself.

**Questioner:** Yes. Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:** There may be a few things that will be imparted to you by some of the people that you meet that will be some of the information you've been looking for. Mhm.

**Questioner:** Yeah. I have a feeling there are some people that want to meet me. Like looking at the clock and like...

**Bashar:** Yes. Yes. Yes. So have fun.

**Questioner:** Yes. One more question. That was a question. Another one. That was a question. Two more. Okay. Some of you are actually learning. Um, so last year I was traveling to Rotterdam with a friend, and I looked out in the... in a train, and I looked outside the window, and there was a... a thing in the air. And it looked like the ship... thing. A thing. Yes.

**Bashar:** What the thing look like?

**Questioner:** Like an Independence Day ship. And I know you're keeping schedule of all the ships that are flying around, so do you know anything about it?

**Bashar:** No.


### **Conversation 8: Tesla Technology, Hybrid Children, and Sound/Matter**

**Questioner:** Um, hello Bashar, and to you good day. Um, for my profession, uh, I'm an electronic and audio engineer. And uh, I have a major passion for Tesla and Tesla technology. Yes. And also uh, health technology. One of the things I'm into is ozonated water and electrotherapy. Um, I just wanted if you could elaborate on those things and whether they are a benefit to uh, humanity.

**Bashar:** Any permission slip that you're excited about is a benefit to someone. So the idea is always understand that all tools, all techniques, all rituals, all objects, no matter in what form they may be created, if they are exciting to you, if they are an expression of your excitement, they will be a benefit to someone. They may not necessarily benefit everyone, but they will be a benefit to someone, because if it's a gift you have to give, there is someone waiting to receive it.

**Questioner:** Okay. I thought you were going to say that. Um, would you oh, how psychic. Brilliant. Would you elaborate a little bit more on my uh, my interest actually on Tesla and the connection there? Cuz I'm uh, I've been told by medium I have a connection there. But I'm sure...

**Bashar:** You're making a connection just like anyone. When you are passionate about something, you will make energetic connections to other beings that you are aware of, or even some that you're not aware of, that may be similarly focused. And therefore, you can download energy and information from them to assist you in exploring the theme and the passions that you're following in this life. So you make whatever connections you need to to help guide you and propel you forward on that path.

**Questioner:** Brilliant. Uh, one final question. I wanted to know: do I have any hybrid children?

**Bashar:** Not directly in the way that you mean it. You are involved peripherally in another way that has to do with certain educational things, but we won't go deeply into that right now for a variety of reasons that I can't go deeply into right now.


**Questioner:** Im a musical composer. whats the connection uh, between sound and uh, matter or or mass? Uh, I feel that uh, sound creates um, the the whole creation.

**Bashar:** Yes. Well, everything is resonance. Everything is frequency. Everything is a vibration of existence itself. So all the different frequencies determine the things that you perceive as different things. It's all made out of the same thing. It's all made out of consciousness. It's all made out of existence. It's all one thing. But the different vibrations, the different resonances, the different frequencies within it create the appearance and the experience of different things, including the concept of sound and light. You can see that they are interchangeable when you start to discover, as many of your scientists have, that you can transform one into the other, such as the science you know, or the effect you know as sonoluminescence. You're familiar with this? Where sound is used to create light. Where sound is used to create light. Light. Yes. It's called sonoluminescence. Look it up. Uhhuh. They have found a way on your planet to use sound vibrations to actually create light, because it's just different expressions of the same thing at different frequencies. Okay? So it's all about resonance.

**Questioner:** could you tell us about uh, the full potential of music for for our civilization?

**Bashar:** Well, there are many ways to express it, of course, and different individuals may need to experience it in a variety of different ways according to their belief systems, according to the themes that they're exploring and the path that they are on. But generally speaking, you could say that when you create the resonances that are most aligned with your true selves on an individual, group, and collective level, you will immerse yourselves in a bubble of vibration, in a bubble of resonance, in a bubble reality that will be conducive to accelerating and amplifying you very, very powerfully. This we do on our planet in a very specific way. We have three spheres that surround our planet that orbit our planet. Each sphere is about 75 miles in diameter. They resonate at a certain frequency and immerse our planet in a bubble and energy that allows us more ability to remain within a synchronistic state. These three spheres are referred to as Epsilon, Epiphany, and Eclipse. We don't have moons, but we have these three spheres. They create an energy bubble, a state of being that allows us more opportunity to remain within the synchronism that we experience in our reality.


### **Conversation 9: Sonoluminescence, Superconductivity, and Quantum Tunneling**

**Questioner:** Good day Bashar, and to you good day. My love to you.

**Bashar:** Our unconditional love to you as well. Let me just expand on the sonoluminescence. Is there a similar conversion process in which you can convert sound or any other uh, uh, medium into electrical energy?

**Bashar:** Absolutely. Tell absolutely. Well, you have it in the basic fact of sonoluminescence. You just have to make slight adjustments, or you can add what are called wave guides in the area where you are creating the light with the sound. And the wave guide can be of a diameter that is representative of an electrical wavelength so that it can conduct that vibration down its length in such a way so that it acts as a step-down transformer and a converter into the idea of what you call electrical phenomenology. Cool. It would help if it was actually lower in temperature. Yes. What you call superconductive.

**Questioner:** Right. So is superconductive the only possible at low temperature? Is there a way to...

**Bashar:** No, no, no, no, no. The idea can be at what you typically refer to as room temperature and even higher temperatures than that. You just haven't discovered the materials yet that are responsible for being able to do that. But you have... didn't you? Yes. Tell me about it. You can use mixtures of copper and boron and a few other things that we will get into at another time when you are ready for that information. But you can begin experiment with those.

**Questioner:** Gotcha. Does that help?

**Bashar:** That does. Thank you very much. What is the speed of the what we call here electrostatic potential or the potential of a charge density?

**Bashar:** Well, it is fundamentally infinite, but you have different levels of it that you interpret in your dimensional reality. So depending upon the frequency you're at, it will determine a different speed for that. But the fundamental tick of the clock is what you refer to as the Planck time.

**Questioner:** Okay. So Planck's constant is valid in some sense?

**Bashar:** It is the tick of the clock of your experience of physical reality.

**Questioner:** Yes. Thank you. Yes. Does that help?

**Bashar:** It does.

**Questioner:** What role does macroscopic quantum tunneling play in energy reception and energy conversion in electric...

**Bashar:** It plays a huge role. It's actually within your biology. It's actually within your brain and helps to allow your brain to act as a receiver for the higher frequency energies of your higher mind and convert them down into things that then can be processed as belief systems and thoughts and emotions and behaviors and activity within your biological...

**Questioner:** And how does it apply specifically to electrical energy in systems?

**Bashar:** Well, it helps generate the matrix along which electrical impulses can most easily be conducted.

**Questioner:** So and can you talk about an application to a um, other than the brain?

**Bashar:** Well, in the senses. Many of your scientists are now discovering that the ability of certain animals, such as certain birds, to navigate by the electromagnetic field has to do with the idea of quantum tunneling.

**Questioner:** Gotcha. Does that help?

**Bashar:** It does. Thank you. Thank you very much.

**Questioner:** Okay. Um, that's enough. Thank you very much. Love you Bashar. And our love to you. Bye-bye.

***

### **Conversation 10: Vibration, Visibility, and Daily Life**

**Questioner:** Hello Bashar, and to you good day. Nice to meet you.

**Bashar:** And you as well. So I would like to ask you if uh, some um, uh, beings uh, have higher vibration than human being?

**Bashar:** Uh, well, we have a higher vibration than humans. Your physical body can be seen for us or not? You can see us, but we are almost non-physical. But we can make ourselves appear to you in solid form. So you can uh, decrease your vibration, yes, which we do in order for this channeling to happen, because we have to come closer to the vibration of the channel, and the channel raises his vibration to come closer to us.

**Questioner:** Yes. Thank you. Thank you very much for... is that it?

**Bashar:** Yes. Oh. All right. Thank you.

*[Applause]*

**Questioner:** Hi Bashar, and are you good day? It's so nice to meet you.

**Bashar:** And you as well. Speak up. Speak up so that all may hear you.

**Questioner:** Oh. My question that I wanted to ask you was already answered. How synchronous of you. Yeah. So I just wanted to ask you a just demanding question: what does your normal day look like?

**Bashar:** What does my normal day look like? All right. Not that anything in our reality is normal; it is natural instead. But the idea is, as many of you know, I am a first contact specialist. Therefore, a lot of my day is occupied by making contact with different civilizations such as yours, extending the relationship between my civilization and those civilizations such as yours. Some of my day may sometimes be occupied by the idea of exploring space, discovering the idea of new civilizations to make contact with. A lot of it is spent observing how different civilizations function. A lot of it is also spent participating in some of those civilizations in a variety of ways. Some of it is also acting as a sculptor, utilizing different materials such as what we described earlier as the nanoglass material to create different forms that are receptive to different levels of energy and express those energies through those forms as we create them. Interacting also with my fellow beings on my own world in a variety of ways. There are many things that occupy my experience on a day-to-day basis. Will that answer your question?

**Questioner:** Thank you very much. Yeah. And just one more question. Do... oh, you had a question after all. Yeah. Do you also need to sleep?

**Bashar:** We do not sleep anymore. We do not eat anymore. We learned at one point in our civilization, in our evolution, to lucid dream very powerfully. And when we learn to lucid dream, we became aware that on a higher level, there is what we call a template, a blueprint for physical reality. And in lucid dreaming, by becoming awake in the dream and controlling the dream, we could take our consciousness to that level of the template and actually make adjustments in the template, in the blueprint, to make changes in physical reality that then allowed us to become more lucid in the physical dream. And then we started to understand that physical reality was just a different kind of dream. And so by becoming lucid in our dream state, we became lucid in the physical dream, and they started to blend together until there was no difference. So we don't need to go to sleep because we're always dreaming, and we're always awake. 


### **Conversation 11: Healing and Negative Beliefs**

**Questioner:** Well, I hate... forgot Bashar he has to go get... Bashar. Oh, did you do that cuz you like hearing them applause?

**Bashar:** No, I took my glasses off.

**Questioner:** Oh. Okay. So again, thank you all for coming. And you ready to connect with Bashar and share some more wonderful information with us? Sure. Okay. Good. So thank you again Daryl and Bashar for taking us on this journey. Thank you. Thank you. Bye. For... for...

**Bashar:** Or say, let us continue the transmission with the continuation of your questions and dialogue if you wish. All right. All right. Thank him. Please proceed.

**Questioner:** And good day to you. My... you. My abilities I wish to be able to where the earthly medicine can... and I can see that my abilities are not good enough for that. I wish to create a network of um, people who would be able to do the same. Are you able to assist? That can you teach me how to heal what we cannot heal at the moment?

**Bashar:** You cannot heal those who do not wish to be healed. Do you understand? There are people who wish to be healed, but uh, they may say so on the surface, but that may not be true deep within. The idea as a healer is you simply create an energy that represents the healed state. The person must be willing to match that frequency in order to heal themselves. A healer never heals anybody directly. But many people may go to a healer and not necessarily actually desire to be healed. They may wish to even prove to themselves that they cannot be healed. So the idea is, if they walk away without being healed, you have still given them what it is they actually wished to experience. You cannot force the idea of healing on anyone, but you can simply provide the opportunity for them to heal themselves if they choose to match the energy that you are giving off. You have to allow them to choose whatever they choose. Does that make sense?

**Questioner:** I also... I even met people claim they wished to be healed, but inside they didn't wish so.

**Bashar:** Yes. And many times, even though the mind may say they wish to be healed, they may be on a journey, they may be on a path where it doesn't necessarily serve them to be healed that way. They may need to go through a different kind of process in order to truly heal themselves. But if they come to you, they are going to get something out of it in some way, shape, or form, and you may not always know what that is. You have to let them walk away with whatever it is they have taken from you and work on it themselves in their own lives, fitting it in where it belongs. So all you need to do is generate the state and allow them to experience whatever they choose to experience. That's all a healer can do. Make sense?

**Questioner:** Yes. It do. There are diseases that cannot be solved or healed uh, by our civilization?

**Bashar:** No. That is not true. You can heal anything. Fundamentally, anything that you create, you can heal.

