---
heading: Part 1
title: "The 5 Levels of Mastery"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2016-12-04
icon: Bashar
weight: 1008
showdate: true
---



### **Introduction: The Five Levels of Mastery and Elementals**

Willa explained the five levels of Mastery being the Cryptic, the Nocturnal, The Shape Shifter, the Sage, and The Wraith, being represented symbolically by the triangle of the Mountain of Earth, the connection to Earth; by the way we line the Nocturnals in the night, the secrets, the wavy line of the water, the emotional depths therein; the arch of the sky representing the shape shifters to represent the changing weather patterns; the idea of the circle representing the Sage which represents space and the void; and the idea of the dot which represents The Wraith which is spirit and Source.

There is also a crossover direct analogy between the five levels of Mastery and the Five Laws:

1.  **Law Number One: You Exist.** The level of the Cryptic. It is a statement of your existence on earth, a connection and an expression of your life as it is in the way that you are familiar.
2.  **Law Number Two: Everything is Here and Now.** Thus in the level of the Nocturnal, connecting into parallel realities. It is the beginning of the awareness that everything exists all at once and that you can connect to those parallel realities.
3.  **Law Number Three: The One is the All, the All are the One.** Representing the ability of the Shape Shifter to call upon those parallel versions of themselves and represent them to others, actually appearing to turn into those other representatives and demonstrating that the one is the all and the all are the one and it is all interchangeable reflections of each other.
4.  **Law Number Four: What You Put Out is What You Get Back.** Being represented by the Sage who can actually call upon those parallel realities and actually transform entire environments into other worlds, other realities, manifest things out of the Void, out of apparently thin air, putting out that vibration that allows them to relate to other Realities so strongly that they can transmit that vibration to others so that they can perceive the changes in that reality too.
5.  **Law Number Five: Everything Changes Except the Laws.** Being represented by The Wraith who thus bridges physical and non-physical reality, matter and spirit, and can call upon the idea of changing the template, the very foundational underlying blueprint of physical reality to manifest all sorts of Transformations not only in the physical world but in spirit as well, simultaneously turning physical reality into a living spiritual dream.

So the Five Laws correspond very directly to the idea of the expressions of the five levels of Mastery just so you have a more complete picture of the system that is in existence and the knowledge that is expressed 700 years in your future by Willa and many of the hybrids that exist at that time blended into your Society on its way to becoming fully the sixth hybrid race. Do you understand? All right, I guess not all of you do. The idea therefore is we will now facilitate Willa so that she can discuss with you, share with you, the idea of the Winter Spirit and the Elementals as it relates to the concept of your historical understanding and transformation of the Winter Spirit into the representation, the symbol that you now call Santa Claus.


long ago, humans on your planet had more sensitivity than they express in your contemporary time frame to the idea of nature. When they lived in nature in a more natural way, as you would say, and that they were able to, at least to some degree, sense the presence of the Elementals. Now let us explain before we go on: Elementals can express and have what you would perceive and experience as a physicality of a sort, but many of them are also shape shifters, and it is from the Elementals that the idea of the masteries were developed and that the abilities of the shape shifters were acquired and learned from them in the beginning.

But the idea is that the Elementals can manifest themselves in many ways physiologically and sometimes in different forms, but the idea is that they are not exactly physical as you understand physicality. They are part of the nature physicality; they are part of the nature of your world, of our world, of the Earth, what you may call Gaia. They are part of that Consciousness expressing itself in a variety of archetypal ways, for Consciousness can express itself and divide itself and project itself in a variety of groupings or individualities according to whatever is required by the mass consensus experience. And Elementals, for lack of a better term, are like portions of the collective Consciousness and the electromagnetic energy that is associated with the Earth condensing into a form and expression of Consciousness that can then sort of wrap itself in the concept of physical reality but isn't really born in the way you are born as a physical being, nor do they really die in the way that you die as a physical being. They're more like a constant fluctuation of the Consciousness that is associated collectively with your world, from the world, by the world. And they can perhaps, again, more aptly, like bubbles in a boiling pot, pop up here and there using the medium of the water, the electromagnetic energy, to temporarily form the idea of a consolidated focal point that you would recognize in the water as a bubble but recognize in nature as an elemental.

This is why many of them can exist for many hundreds of years, even thousands of years of your time of counting, but the idea is that when they come into being and when they transition into other states, it is more like what the Bashar Civilization now experiences where they are a consolidation, very rapidly where *poof*, as you say, they are there, and *poof*, as you say, they are gone, even though they may linger for a long time. But that Consciousness can reform itself like clay, like being molded into other forms and express itself. And so Elementals can, in that sense, experience a shift of identities in much the same way that you might allow more of your true being to come through you from time to time, saying that you are truly a different person now but still recognize a connection, a continuity that you may create. Well, Elementals have a little bit less of that continuity; they can flow and change in form and become this and that and appear and disappear in a variety of ways, but they experience that continuity in a very different way than you do.

Now that you sort of have a little bit of a picture of the fact that they are certainly far more ephemeral than you're used to seeing in a being that you relate to, in those past times of your counting, humans were more sensitive and more capable of recognizing that Elementals existed and sometimes could actually interact with them in a variety of ways. And over time, as your civilization changed and focused on different things, you became less and less aware of the Elementals as an actual presence that you could interact with, and many of them became what you would call mythologized and told in your stories in a variety of ways. And sometimes there were different interpretations about what they could do or what they were or what they were all about, some of which remained relatively accurate according to their temperaments, and some of which really spun into stories that almost have nothing at all to do with what they do and who they are and how they live. Nevertheless, you retain the idea of the Elementals in your stories sufficiently enough that you never really lost sight of the fact that you are on some level aware that there are other levels of reality even within your own, other divisions of Consciousness even within what you call the world, and that there are many things that are invisible to you that are around you all the time.

But now, in this day and age, as you call your contemporary time of transformation, there is the ability to regain those senses again, to expand your senses to the point where you can begin, and have begun in many cases, to know that those Elementals do exist among you, have their own reality, their own world in a sense, blended in, intermingled, intertwined with your own. And bit by bit, as you expand your Consciousness and move down through your timeline further and further, you will begin to experience that these beings still do exist and they will make themselves known to you in a variety of ways as you become more aware and more capable of perceiving and interacting with them.

***

### **The Winter Spirit: Kinos, Krampus, and Santa Claus**

One in particular that we will address this day of your time is what is typically referred to as the Winter Spirit. Now that does have a name, a name of old, an ancient name, and in the area in which I live—even though this Winter Spirit can appear in many different ways around the world in different cultures—in my area of what you would call Ireland, in your time, you will find that it is known by an ancient name of **Kinos**.

Kinos, this being, is generally described as having elements of a human form but also elements of animal form, a kind of face that might be reminiscent of what you would call a blend of human and elk, and it does have the expression of large elk-like antlers, and it does have the expression of the cloven hooves, and it does have certain other elements to it that would be considered sort of fawn-like or of a nature in the sense of what the being you know as Pan or Puck. In that sense, but it is a rather large Elemental because its energy is very great, and it represents the season itself, and its focal point is the winter solstice that you are about to experience in your timeline.

But the idea of Kinos is that it is, to use an ancient term, a kind of a karmic Elemental. It is a Fourth Law Elemental, specifically geared to that vibration of "what you put out is what you get back." It is that kind of a reflective Elemental, and in ancient times, even ancient to you, it expressed this in the way that those that were positive to it, kind to it, loving to it, would receive that in return, but those that were of foul heart within themselves and mean disposition would find that reflected back to them by this Fourth Law Elemental in a variety of ways that represented the concept that became known to you as karma, because it is simply again the fourth law of what you put out is what you get back, and this being can amplify, magnify, and reflect that to you once you engage within that level of Consciousness with it.

Over time, as you began to lose the sense of the being itself, the Winter Spirit in its original form, its original expression as Kinos, and you drifted away from your knowledge that these beings existed among you, and it began to fade back into its own reality to the point where you could no longer really perceive it in the same way that your ancestors did, but remembering that such encounters did occur, you began to weave different kinds of expressions or different kinds of stories about this being. One of the first that you created was the idea of splitting the being in two to recognize its positive side and recognize its negative side. Now, again, we remind you that when we talk about the idea of positive and negative, like the Bashar, this is not a value judgment but it is simply a description of the mechanics of positive energy being that which integrates and expands, negative energy being that which segregates and disconnects in the experience.

But the idea is that this then became separated into two different beings, still the original idea of the Winter Spirit, but then the negative side was embodied in a concept and another being altogether that was given the antlers in the form of horns, still had the cloven hooves, still had some animal aspects to its features, but this being was given a new name, and that name was **Krampus**. Krampus then became the embodiment of the idea of the negative side, while the positive side was then begun to be associated with other things that came into your Society, religious ideas, other forms of spiritual expression, and in the idea of your European area, you will find that it began to be associated with the concept of saints, and in particular, the idea of the being you know as St. Nicholas.

But having been divided in this way, it was also then Krampus being associated with the negative polarity of those that believed in the idea of Heaven and Hell, and thus Krampus also became the embodiment of the devil in that way, for it had the cloven hooves and it had the horns. The idea also is that it was a being of mischief in that sense, in the negative way, reflecting the negativity. But this also continued to evolve, the idea becoming a little bit more benign in what became Santa Claus, where Krampus began to be forgotten, and again, the idea of forming the list and checking it twice to find out who's naughty and find out who's nice, so that became simply an idea that evolved into, or shall we say devolved into, a simple list, a checklist of who was either a good boy or a good girl or a bad boy or a bad girl, allowing the idea to come into some other religious form and go in a different direction and focus on the idea of the giving of gifts and the giving of presents, which originally was the concept of simply making loving offerings to the original Kinos Winter Spirit and receiving in return the idea of also gifts and offerings to carry beings through the winter, to help support them through the ice and the snow, because the Winter Spirit in a sense could also be represented as that which could control those things, those realities, and allow there to be an easing of those elements that you might experience in the winter time in harsh climes.

But understand that there is still that remnant of making those offerings, because even to this day many of you will leave milk and cookies for Santa Claus. Now, of course, in your Society, it has continued to evolve into something, of course, that you would consider to be quite commercial, for you understand that the Santa Claus you know today is purely an invention in terms of the look, in terms of what it does and how it does it, but it still contains that seed, and it contains that remnant. It contains, even as a mythology, the connection all the way back to the Winter Spirit who, when offered the idea of gifts, would give gifts in return, and who, when presented with foul temperament, would offer foul storms in return.

So you can see, through the progression of forgetting your connection to Nature and no longer being able to interact directly with the Winter Spirit in the ways of old, that you have allowed this to become something which is a surface feature only, a mythology, a presentation that serves you in the way that your Society is now structured. But as you go through the transformations that you are now going through in your society, and you open up to the idea that your senses can expand and begin to interact once again with the heretofore invisible that's always around you of other realities and other levels of consciousness within the Earth itself, you will begin to honor again, you will begin to own again, you will begin to experience again those interactions.

But I will tell you, when you come upon Kinos, you will find that it will be a very powerful energy, for again, it is the energy itself of Winter, the energy itself of the solstice, and that crossing threshold will become more and more meaningful to many of you as you advance in your development toward the idea of the sixth hybrid race. For in our time, upline 700 years from you in what you call your future, Kinos is a being that we interact with all the time. It is a presence that we can actually experience in a very physical way, as with many of the other Elementals, what you may call the Pukas and the Sills and the Gnomes and the Silkies and many other beings that exist in different rarified realms and express themselves as shape shifters, taking on different forms to represent the kind of energies that they interact with in your reality. They are symbolic beings that can physicalize themselves, archetypal energies and archetypal consciousnesses that can actually physicalize themselves and take on very unusual forms that you would think to be physically impossible, but the only reason they are possible is because they are not physical in the way that you are, though they can express themselves in a very physical and solid way sufficient enough to interact with them in the physical plane.

So these Elementals, being of that nature, will also be beneficial for reminding you of your own nature and that you are truly walking in a dream, that physical reality is a dream and another expression of a greater archetype of the Gaia Collective Consciousness energy, of which you are also an expression, even though you express it in a more physicalized way. So as you reclaim your own natural selves, you will also reclaim and express a part of your being and a part of your Consciousness that is also vibrationally connected to the Elementals, for you contain that as well. For you contain everything that exists in nature, and everything is a symbol and a reflection and a shard of that shattered mirror that has broken into an infinite number of parts and reflects back to you in an infinite number of ways all the different aspects that you are, that you can vibrate in harmony with, that you can adapt and adopt into your self to express yourselves as the greater being as you walk through the dream of physical life. Is what we're saying making some sense to you all?

***

### **Q&A Session 1: Dreams and Dolphins**

**Participant (Cookie):** Hello Willa and good day. Cookie. Um, I used to have these dreams where I would go into this green... green pools. The water was uh, just like, like the green on the on the background there, and then they became uh, like caves, and then I will see doors... green caves and then I will see doors, green doors opening in trees. I wonder if uh, you have anything to say about that. Is there any significance to that dream?

**Willa:** This is to some degree what we were discussing last night of your time, as you understand your time, the idea of connecting cryptically to Nature and opening those doors of communication to things that you don't necessarily think are capable of communicating with you, such as the trees. So it's making a connection on a higher level, vibrationally speaking, to other kinds of beings and other expressions of beings in nature with whom you can learn to communicate and receive information that can serve you in your life. You understand, going deep within yourself is what is symbolized by the cave within you, and finding the trees within is what symbolizes your connection to Nature and your ability to open those doors to other Realms and see and enter those Realms vibrationally so that you can match the frequencies that give you more ability to receive information from all beings and all reflections in nature. That is how we would see that particular experience for you.


**Participant:** I'm Celeste. You were talking about Elemental beings, is there Dreamer Dolphins or dolphin Consciousness in upline, in your timeline?

**Willa:** Yes. There are Dreamer Dolphins and we interact with them as well.

they don't really express themselves so much differently as we are simply capable of clear communication with them and understand them fully.

**Willa:** So it's about the practice that you're doing to learn how to receive and get into a telepathic contact with them by matching those frequencies so that you can also practice understanding the deeper conversations that are going on. 

Because there are many levels to a dolphin and a whale conversation, more than just what you might understand on the surface. They live in the depths of the sea, and because they live in those depths, and because gravity to them is not what it is to you, you find that their way of communicating actually contains many different levels and operates on many different levels and communicates different information the deeper you go. So you need to learn to understand how to dive deeper in your connections with them so that you can get the fullness of the communication that they are sharing with you. But they understand, now in your time frame, that they need to deliver the first layer so that you can begin to sensitize yourself to their frequency, and as you become more accomplished at that, they will also then give off vibrations that allow you to go deeper and deeper into the conversation. And especially with the Dreamer Dolphins, then, until you are so deep in the conversation that you are dreaming together with them and don't know whether they are the human and you are the dolphin, or they are the dolphin and you are the human. It can become a real bonding experience, and it is something that we enjoy in our time.

**Participant:** And by going... I would not have described it to you that way. Yeah, I really appreciate you describing that. Um, by going deeper, are you saying going deeper into yourself?

**Willa:** Of course. That's always not into the ocean, or both? Like again, anything external is the symbol of the internal. The deeper you go within your own self, the deeper you will go in the consciousness of the reality that appears to be around you but which you know is actually within. Yeah, because there is nothing around you that's a projection; it's a reflection; it's an illusion; it's all within you.

**Participant:** You told me uh, yesterday to have a holistic... well, um, I interpreted it to have a holistic approach.

**Willa:** So yes, yeah, because the holistic view contains all the details that can simply fall into place automatically as they arrange themselves within and take their cue from the holistic view, rather than working the details and trying to figure out where they fit. Allow the template of the holistic view to simply arrange them as befits the whole, then everything will fall into place quite nicely, quite neatly. It's really no different than understanding a recipe. For the idea is that in the beginning, if you are cooking, you may focus on the ingredients individually, but as you become a Master Chef, you understand that you have the end result already pictured in mind, and everything sort of happens automatically to manifest that holistic experience.

**Participant:** Okay, so the state of being is in mind and then it holistically manifests.

**Willa:** The state of being itself contains all of the detail vibrations within it, and it is that energy that encourages everything to then come together in the proper way.

That's why we call you all Cookies.

**Participant:** Wow. And I appreciate hearing that analogy from that perspective too, because last night I heard the perspective that you were saying that we were sweet just from our presence alone, or the essence of it, but then also from the perspective of baking.


### **Q&A Session 2: Beliefs, Excitement, and Parallel Realities**

**Participant:** Hello. I have been struggling with belief that if I follow my highest excitement, if I express my talent, I will be attacked, humiliated, rejected by the group.

**Bashar:** Then you don't have a clear definition of excitement. For how can a true definition of excitement contain those things? You have a different definition, and it's not the definition of excitement. So you need more precision and more clarity about your definition of excitement so that you can understand that when you are truly aligned with that vibration, things that are not compatible with that vibration simply cannot be experienced. This is just physics. So you need clarification of your definition so that you have an accurate definition of excitement instead of something different. And does that make sense to you?

**Participant:** It does.

**Bashar:** All right. Just... and so what is the belief? And why are you afraid that someone might say, "Oh well, by being yourself, we don't like you"? Who cares? What do they have to do with you? That's correct.

**Participant:** If I'm happy, I'll be punished.

**Bashar:** If you are happy, you will be punished? Yes. Again, not a definition of happiness, is it?

**Participant:** Mhm.

**Bashar:** Is it a definition of Happiness? A state of being in which you get punished? Do you actually have those contradictory beliefs locked together? "If I [am] in a state of Happiness which can attract other people to attack me?" No. You see, you're not getting the point. Right. A state of Happiness cannot attract people to do something that is not reflective of a state of Happiness. People may do that, but it's not that the state of Happiness attracted that. Huh? Okay. Do you understand?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** And the idea is that if you are creating a state of happiness and people choose to do that, what do you care? Because you're in a state of Happiness. So why would you match the vibration they're offering you and come out of your state of Happiness to match the vibration of their misery? Why would you choose to do that?

**Participant:** I don't know why I choose to do that.

**Bashar:** Of course you choose to do that. I'm not saying you choose it consciously, but the only way you can leave one state of being is to choose another. It doesn't automatically go away. When you choose a state of being, that state of being is there. If it changes, you're choosing, on some level, consciously or unconsciously through your belief system, to believe you need to change it to something else. Right? So this calls for awareness of self, knowing yourself, being clear in your discernment of your belief systems and how your belief systems that you're holding on to are changing your state in a way that you don't prefer. That's why it's so important to get in touch with what those beliefs are and identify them consciously, because if they remain unconscious, you have nothing to work with. You don't know what's going on, and it appears as if you're not choosing to change your state of being when you are, by holding on to beliefs that don't work for you. But when you identify them consciously, then you have something to work with, because you can see what the belief is that you are buying into that convinces you to change your state of being from something you prefer to something that you don't. Right? You find the logic in the negative belief, but you don't have to buy into that logic once you are aware of what it is. Because once you are aware of what it is, it doesn't logical anymore; it appears illogical and nonsensical. It doesn't make sense when you shine the spotlight on it. And as soon as it doesn't make sense, it's gone. You don't hold on to things that don't make sense. Therefore, when a belief is exposed in your Consciousness and it no longer seems to make sense, that's the end of the process of letting it go, not the beginning of the process of letting it go. You instantly drop things that don't make sense. Now, if you keep doing the same thing, you haven't found the core belief. You need to keep digging. 


**Bashar:** Is this helping you? Very much. But it all comes down to Clarity of definition and knowing yourself and identifying those beliefs as clearly and precisely as you possibly can. Then you have something to work with. Then you know that you're in charge. Yes. Is this making some sense?

**Participant:** Yes, it does. Is this helping enough or is there something else you want to discuss about this? Let me just make sure that I get correctly... by that, I do not have to feel guilty when another person is not feeling well. I do not have to match their level of... expe... don't... and in fact, if you match their level, all you're doing is reinforcing that negative vibration for yourself and for them, instead of remaining in a vibration that would actually be capable of helping them, should they choose to match yours.

**Bashar:** Mh. So you're actually removing their ability to have an option to change by matching their frequency. Oh. You understand? Yes. You are depriving them of that option. Be the living example of the state of being you prefer. And even if someone else doesn't choose to match your frequency and change themselves in a more positive way, you have at least assisted them and been of help to them by being an example to them of a choice they could make. But if you don't do that, you're not giving them any choice.



### **Q&A Session 3: Other Universes and Motherships**

**Participant:** Hello Bashar. I... are you good day? Um, what is Another Universe like?

**Bashar:** Well, there are an infinite number of them. We recently described one that we have termed the "Inside Out Universe." Have you heard that description?

**Participant:** No, no, no.

**Bashar:** Let me describe it this way. We have recently, and are still, exploring the Inside Out Universe. Well, let me start with what you consider to be normal, okay? You have what appears to be—it isn't, but what appears to be—empty space, mhm, in which there are stars and planets. In general, the Inside Out Universe, there is no empty space. In the area you would consider to be empty space, it is full of a kind of heavy gravitational fluid. But there are bubbles, very large bubbles and small bubbles, in that fluid. The gravitational fluid builds up and compacts in such a way as to create the skin of the bubble, and it is inside the bubble which has the empty space. And the inside surface of the bubble is where beings can live. Oh, instead of on the surface of a ball in empty space, they are on the inner surface of a bubble in space that is full.

**Participant:** Wow.

**Bashar:** Now, the one so far that we are dealing with—because of course there are many different kinds of beings that can exist in such a universe—but the ones that we are dealing with so far, the beings themselves on the inside of their bubble are actually themselves also spherical. Oh, although they have tentacles that can stretch out and help motivate them, move them around, balance them, support them, but they can also retract those tentacles so that they are a pure sphere so they can roll around.

**Participant:** Oh my God. That's their mode of transportation?

**Bashar:** And all of their structures, in a sense, are tubular so that they can move through those tubular hallways in a variety of ways. Now, at the center of that empty bubble is not exactly what you would call a star, but something that shifts back and forth and fluctuates very rapidly back and forth in a variety of ways between what you might colloquially refer to as a black hole and a white hole. And this exerts the idea of a kind of outward pressure that they would consider day, and then an inward pressure that they would consider night. That's how they experience it, but it looks nothing at all like your day or your night. It is a fascinating universe that we have begun to explore and are still learning much about.

**Participant:** Wow, that's fascinating.

**Bashar:** Yes, it is.

**Participant:** And then another question. Yes. Um, what's it... what's it like to uh, live out your life on like a Mothership?

**Bashar:** Well, it depends, but it can be quite fascinating. Just like you, you're born and then you grow up, and yes. There are actually very few of us that actually live our entire lives on a Mothership. We do visit our own planet and other planets as well. Mh. There are a few beings that have chosen to do what you are saying, and for them, it is a fascinating way to live because they get to go constantly visiting other realities, other worlds. They get to explore in a variety of ways, and they get to also participate in communication in a variety of different ways with the mothership itself, because remember, our ships are sentient.

**Participant:** Yeah, wow.

**Bashar:** So it can be experienced in a number of different ways depending upon the theme that the individual is exploring by choosing that particular path. So it's a choice, of course. It's a choice. No one is forced to stay aboard the mothership.

**Participant:** No, no, no. You can't come down to this planet; you have to stay on the mothership because you've been a naughty girl.

**Bashar:** So it's... it's fascinating for them. It's fun for them. It's... of course. Please remember, in our society, we don't do anything that isn't fun, yes, that isn't representative of our highest passion. We live on pure synchronism. Everyone is exactly where they need to be, exactly when they need to be there, interacting with exactly whom they need to interact with, exactly when, how, where, and so forth. That's pure synchronism. Everything is in orchestration, and we know that it is so. We experience it as such more consciously than many of you do, even though it's also always synchronistically in orchestration for you as well, but most of you are just becoming aware of that in a more conscious way. But we're fully aware of that.

**Participant:** Okay. So how about like, when... when Bashar goes and visits... yeah, when you go and visit, um, the mothership, like how many... how long do you stay there for a visit in our time? Like how many...

**Bashar:** It depends on what business I have there. Oh, I could be there for a few moments. I could be there for days. The longest I've been on any one mothership is about what you would consider to be 3 months at a time before going off and doing other things. Now, there are those that I am in contact with that have been on the mothership for what you would consider to be years.

**Participant:** Oh, wow. So, wow. So it's never boring?

**Bashar:** Why would it be? There's no such thing as a boring situation. There are only bored minds.


