---
heading: Part 2 of The Keys of Ascension
title: "Ascension and Cellular Change"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1992-05-31
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 129
tags: ['']
---



## Q&A Session 1: Ascension and Cellular Change

**Questioner:** Are there certain energies that are coming through from another area outside of our existence and on this planet that are affecting directly affecting us at a cellular level and our DNA level?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** Okay. And is this creating this change of cells in our body? Is happening and is it happening to everybody, even those people who maybe are not quite ready for it, or at different rates?

**Bashar:** To some degree, yes. Although some of the transformations in certain individuals will not be sufficient to take them to the same places that it will take other individuals. But everyone will ultimately fall into the proper slot of the vibration that is representative of what they are giving off.

**Questioner:** So for those people who... we are all going through an Ascension process right now. Some of us are maybe midway or different stages or levels of Ascension.

**Bashar:** Oh yes. Of Ascension. You're all proceeding at your own rates, and yet together you're all moving up. But various individuals may resist it and may in that sense then, by creating a certain vibration within themselves through this process of resonance or harmonic vibration, will simply determine for themselves what area, what reality they wish to remain in. And others will go on to other kinds of realities, and then the two will never see each other again.

**Questioner:** That's exactly what I wanted to ask about. What will happen living here on this planet?

**Bashar:** You will think your world is changing. You will simply start to interact only with the people that start to resonate at the same vibration. You will simply wonder what happened to all the other people. You've never seen them again. They will simply have shifted themselves to other dimensionalities, but you may not necessarily intellectually know that. You may just think you're not running into them anymore. But you will actually be walking in different dimensions and simply will not have the capability of running into each other anymore.

**Questioner:** More. Is this going to be happening quite quickly within the next uh, 5 years or 2 years?

**Bashar:** It will accelerate greatly in your 1993 and will continue all the way up through your year 2000. Yes. By 2011, 2013, the reality will be completely defined.

**Questioner:** It's kind of mind-boggling.

**Bashar:** That's the point. Your mind is supposed to be boggled so it doesn't get in the way.

**Questioner:** Well, I'm very excited about this meditation you're going to give us.

**Bashar:** So are we. Yes.

**Questioner:** Um, well, to move on to one more question, is that okay?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** Um, is it accurate to say that the Earth and our whole solar system are going to pass through a photon belt or some kind of an energy belt?

**Bashar:** The concept of the photon belt is accurate in the following way: as you go through this dimensional shift—which is what you are doing—as you accelerate, like anything that changes from one energy state to another energy state, you give off extra energy, a flash of electromagnetic light. That is the photon belt. It is the threshold, the barrier in a sense, not only through which you are passing, but which you are actually creating with the collective consciousness in its transformational state. You are being bathed in your own light. How you use that light will be determined; how you experience that life will be determined by the vibration you choose to exist upon. You will either let that energy through you in a positive way or a negative way depending upon where you're at. It is a real phenomena, but the photon belt is not so much something that is there that you are passing through as much as it is actually the energy or flash of electromagnetic light that represents the threshold that you yourselves are in terms of the shift you are making. You understand?

**Questioner:** Okay. It was... that's a little different and I can understand that. Uh, this was an article that was being passed around by Hatonn.

**Bashar:** We understand that it has simply been to some degree misinterpreted a little bit, or simply it is being translated in a way that makes sense to certain individuals on a certain level. But this is another way to look at it. Both are correct to some degree depending upon the perspective that you come from. You understand?

**Questioner:** His seemed a little drastic as far as... understand the Earth may be going through five days of darkness or 5 days of light.

**Bashar:** There will be some individuals who will experience very, very, very, very extreme Dark Nights of the Soul. It is not physiological darkness; it is spiritual darkness. I see. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. Thank you. That makes more sense. Thank you.

**Bashar:** It will simply be the formlessness that we originally talked about. If you find yourself going through that, trust that there is a light at the other end of that tunnel. Mhm. All right. Okay. That trust will get you through. Very good. Thank you very much.


## Resistance and Emotional Expression

**Questioner:** Hi Bashar and good day to you. Nice to see you. Um, this is going to be a very personal question, but um... alright. Uh, nobody else listen. Okay. Well, I think I'm doing what I really like to do and I'm... yes. Uh, and I... but then I seem to get sick quite often. Yes. And um, I feel like there's some... my feelings and my core of myself is sort in a way blocked. Yeah. Yes. And um, that's probably why I get sick. But I'm wondering if you have any suggestions to... I understand how um, what you say and I'm trying to follow what I want to do, but it seems like it's... I have a lot of resistance to it. Yes. And um, why? I was wondering why. Why? Because of... I think of fear of letting go of what I was taught, maybe.

**Bashar:** Alright. Well, let's use that fear to your positive advantage, shall we? Mhm. Yes. Alright. What is the worst possible thing you could imagine happening if you did let go? The worst. Don't hold back. Let's use that imagination to the fullest in the negative. What is the worst possible thing you're afraid of happening?

**Questioner:** I don't think nothing would really happen. I just... I'll be fine, I guess.

**Bashar:** I'll... you guess I'll be fine? Are you sure?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** How do you know?

**Questioner:** Because I will go through some embarrassment and some conflict because I have this uh, um, beliefs from from the past.

**Bashar:** Whose beliefs are they?

**Questioner:** Probably my parents and other people.

**Bashar:** Alright. Why do you hold on to them? How do they serve you to hold on to them? Um, how does it serve you to hold on to them? Are you entrusted with these beliefs? A sacred trust that you must bear with you and carry from generation to generation?

**Questioner:** Well, intellectually I understand that that won't serve me in any ways. Intellectually, yeah. But it seems like uh, there's some emotion... emotional level I seem to have a hard time um, overcoming it or just letting go of it.

**Bashar:** Do you allow yourself freedom of emotional expression?

**Questioner:** Um, to myself? I think I do, but...

**Bashar:** [Take] that as a no. Okay. Would you like more freedom of emotional expression?

**Questioner:** I... do you... would... yes.

**Bashar:** All right. What would be the first free emotional expression you would like to have if you could have any emotional expression at all?

**Questioner:** Um, at the beginning of the session I felt uh, quite quite a lot of emotions and I felt like crying.

**Bashar:** Yes. And did you?

**Questioner:** And um, did you... a little bit, but not very openly.

**Bashar:** Why not more?

**Questioner:** Embarrassment, I guess. So yeah.

**Bashar:** All right. All... I don't guess. You know, you don't have to guess. Right. Alright. Embarrassed because why?

**Questioner:** Because people would know you are a feeling being. Mhm.

**Bashar:** Because people would see that you are releasing old ideas?

**Questioner:** I think yes. Because people would judge you for doing that, I think.

**Bashar:** That's all the past belief... belie... but that's what's... yes. Bing! You must remember something: you are creating those beliefs *now* by doing it. They don't come from the past; they come from the present. You may be making an association to the past, but they don't come from the past. There's no bind on you, no hold on you from the past. Everything that's happening to you is happening within you right now, from you. You are creating the association now. You are creating the restrictions and the limitations now. You are creating those beliefs now. If you don't prefer them, you do not have to keep creating them. It doesn't matter who gave them to you; you had to create them in order for you to experience them. No one actually is capable of giving you literally their belief. You have to create your own version in order to experience it. So what you are dealing with are *your* beliefs, really, not their beliefs. They may have given you a guideline to follow that you don't prefer, but you created the belief that is limiting you. You can easily uncreate that belief because it doesn't really come from them; it comes from you. Right now. Right now you're creating it. Every single moment you're creating it over and over and over again to sustain you in one particular modality. You can stop it any time you wish. You can feel spontaneous and inspired any time you wish. You can cry anytime. You can laugh anytime. You can jump up and down. You can run around. You can lie down. You can go to sleep. You can paint a picture. You can sing a song. You can do anything you want right now as you wish. That's up to you. All you need to understand is that you actually have that freedom and you always have had, but you have tricked yourself into thinking that you don't. Do you understand what I am saying?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** How do you feel right now?

**Questioner:** I feel my... I don't know, my... sor... my heart felt a little soothed.

**Bashar:** All right. All right. Let that feeling grow. Let it grow. Don't push it down. Don't worry that it's going to somehow go away. Don't worry that you will lose it. Don't worry that you will be chided out of it. Don't worry that you will be argued out of it. Don't worry that you will be punished out of it. Let yourself feel it. It's all right. It's all right to feel whatever you want to feel. It's your life. It's your reality. No one has any say in that. No one. Just you. Just you. Thank you very much. One moment. One moment. Remember you chose your parents. They chose you. Primarily, if there is something that you do not prefer about what it is you think they taught you to create in your life, remember that you probably chose them because you knew they were going to give you the kinds of limitations that were the specifically exactly perfect kind of limitations you would need to push against in order to achieve what it is you wanted to achieve. So it's all right to let go of those, because the purpose in having them was to point yourself in a certain direction to be what it is you want it to be. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Does that help lighten you up a little bit?

**Questioner:** Yes, very much. Oh, thank you.

**Bashar:** You sound stronger.

**Questioner:** Yes. Thank you. Thank you very much.

**Bashar:** Our love to you.

# Q&A Session 3: Channeling and Artistic Expression

**Questioner:** Sharing. Hello Bashar and good day to you. Uh, this is my first experience with the channeled entity. Oh, well, this is my first experience with you. Thanks. So I'm a little nervous, but uh...

**Bashar:** You could be excited instead. That's true also. Thank you. Yeah.

**Questioner:** Um, so I had a dream the other night. Oh, all right. Do share. And the dream was I'm walking down a city street and uh, somebody I knew along time ago and the dream said uh, "You are to be a conduit for uh, an alien." Oh. What? And uh, how's that feel?

**Bashar:** Well, it pissed me off.

**Questioner:** Oh. And why was that?

**Bashar:** I don't want to be a channel over an alien.

**Questioner:** No. And why not? Uh, uh, well, it seemed to me at the time I have my work to do, which is which is what I'm really excited about, which is which is... I'm an artist.

**Bashar:** Of what kind? Um, gosh. Uh, a gosh artist. All artist. Uh, I am a gosh artist. All right. Gosh. Yes. What do you like to do? What excites you? How do you wish to express your artistic creativity?

**Questioner:** Oh, that's a great question. Oh, thank you very much. You have a great answer. Yeah. Um, it's uh, I want to talk about uh, all levels of a certain moment all at the same time.

**Bashar:** This is how you wish to express your art?

**Questioner:** Yes. Holographically.

**Bashar:** Yes. Thank you. Do you experiment and explore with the concepts of holograms themselves, or do you simply represent this in some other form?

**Questioner:** No, some other form, such as such as um, working in uh, different modes. Sometimes I'll work uh, on a thing that will take me days to work on, and other times things that will take 30 seconds to make. So they have... they feel like different parts of the mind.

**Bashar:** These are channelings, of course. You know that?

**Questioner:** No. I don't.

**Bashar:** Understand that the fundamental mechanism of a channeling is simply allowing anything you love to do to come through without hesitation. Well, that's true. Yes. It doesn't have to be another entity such as myself for you to be channeling your full self. You understand? Yeah. You are channeling anyone who is artistically creative in that sense, or gives over to any form of artistic or creative expression at that moment if they're doing it without hesitation, without doubt, in full love, fully involved, fully occupied, fully creative, is channeling in the fundamental meaning of the term: being more of their total self. In that sense, channeling their total self through to the physical reality. Yeah. You understand?

**Questioner:** I do.

**Bashar:** Now in that sense, therefore... well, let me back up a little bit. Let me ask you a question if I may. May I?

**Questioner:** Yes, please. Thank you.

**Bashar:** What do you feel or desire that your art do, or what kind of effect do you desire it have upon people? Um, or upon yourself?

**Questioner:** Moments from the past. Um, things that that I I have like happening are somebody receives information that they haven't had before. Oh. And that's also what I like for myself and why I keep exploring, because I I seem to be a lot more interested in what I don't know than what I do know. So the so the art is really a way of uh, opening things up and expanding and exploring your curiosity. Yeah.

**Bashar:** All right. Very much so. And to what end does this information then get used? Does it simply add to the overall ability that then people have in life to choose different things and to create the realities that they want by receiving more of this information?

**Questioner:** I think so. I think it's um, I've often seen it as uh, as it comes through, it's like a navigation point. A navigation point.

**Bashar:** Interesting term. Why would you choose that term?

**Questioner:** Well, uh, as you as you go through life uh, you come to different moments in your life, nexus, and often times a really good piece of art will will help focus your attention so that you know where you are and know where you're going. And this to you feels like a navigation point.

**Bashar:** It does. Well, thank you very much. Interesting. You are the aliens you are channeling. You have your own extraterrestrial connection. It is not anything being pushed upon you. You are simply choosing to assist the transformation of the planet in a way that is specific to your understanding, not only in this life but from other existences and connections that you actually have in other civilizations. The idea of using the term "navigation point" implies that you understand the vibrational essence of navigation as we operate our spacecraft, which means you probably are connected to being a pilot yourself. You understand?

**Questioner:** I think so.

**Bashar:** All right. Navigate in whatever way you wish. But that is the simple meaning of your dream. You yourself are simply bringing information through from other dimensionalities. It is not something that means you have to change your identity, and that is really not what is expected at all. In fact, that would be counterproductive. Be your true full self. You are really doing what you need to do. But simply stated: you are the alien that you are channeling. So that's what was pissing me off in the dream is uh, that uh, uh, I didn't want to be something else.

**Bashar:** I to be what you are recognizing is the level of integrity that you have decided to have, to make sure you will stay firmly grounded even while bringing this information through. It is simply that it was the timing to give you the recognition that you are connected to more levels than you may have realized, but not to in any way shape or form imply that you must detach yourself from the task at hand that you chose to perform. Your anger was simply a momentary natural anger that allowed you to align with your original purpose of why you are doing what you are doing.

**Questioner:** Oh, that makes a lot of sense. You understand?

**Questioner:** I do. Thank you very much. Thanks.

# Q&A Session 4: Following Excitement and Abundance

**Questioner:** Shy Bashar. Um, I'd like to first of all thank you for the impact that you've had on my life in the last couple of months. Um, well, we thank you for the impact you have had on ours as well. All of you. I uh, my life has been profoundly changed since I started listening to tapes that you that I've heard of your channeling. And well, thank you for profoundly changing your your life. I have a dilemma.

**Bashar:** Oh, how exciting. Thank you for sharing your dilemma today with us.

**Questioner:** I've been looking at the idea of following the excitement, and I found that I'm excited about everything. Yes. And it's hard for me to know how to choose um, when it feels as if it doesn't matter that all right, that everything is full.

**Bashar:** All right. Now remember that when we say follow what excites you the most, that any given moment, we have also added many times the understanding that it is following what excites you at any given moment *that you have the highest degree of capability of acting upon at that moment*. Usually you will find that you do not have an equal capacity to act on any particular number of things that may equally excite you. Pick the ones that seem to give you the greatest capacity to do something about at that given moment. And if you even find that there is equality in that, look for the understanding of the overall category in which all these seemingly equal exciting things may fit. For there may be an overall category that is truly more representative of the thing that excites you, and all of these other things that excite you may simply be equal components of the overall category. You understand?

**Questioner:** Do you mean like enlarging the hologram?

**Bashar:** Yes. In other words, you may find that an individual may say, "Well, I'm very excited about painting, while I'm very excited about singing, while I'm very excited about giving speeches. All these things excite me equally. What do I do? What do I do? What do I do?" But they stop and then realize, "Well, wait a minute. Maybe the overall category is that I'm excited about communication." And each of these is simply a different way that I can express the overall idea that excites me of communication. And that there will be more opportunity of this moment to be a painter, then there'll be more opportunity at this moment to be a speaker, and then there more opportunity at this particular moment to be a singer. They may not equally overlap in terms of the degree of opportunity or capability of acting on these things, but they all still fit. I don't have to decide between them because they're all a portion of the overall picture of the thing that excites me the most. They're simply different methodologies and details of doing this one big thing. You understand?

**Questioner:** So you can change the perspective. Yes. Enlarge the hologram of the idea of what it is that excites you to begin with so that you're not causing a warfare to occur but between all the different ways in which you could be doing that exciting thing. It it doesn't feel to me as if it's a warfare and where where the dilemma is that it it feels bigger than what you're describing. Bigger in what sense?

**Questioner:** Well, it's not about choosing this or that or how do these things fit, but it's about... it feels as if there's a connection something to something larger than things that I know out out of this life reference.

**Bashar:** Yes. That's all right.

**Questioner:** Well, I don't know how to make that leap because it doesn't make any sense to me.

**Bashar:** Define "make the leap." In the sense of what do you expect to leap to, or why do you assume that there is a leap you need to make?

**Questioner:** There's nothing. No, that doesn't make sense either. Wait a minute. It's not something that I can explain, Bashar. That's the dilemma. It's a feeling that I have about um, a movement to a kind of service that's operating from something different that I've done all my life. And it's an an internal feeling that I can't name or that I can't put into specific words.

**Bashar:** Do you feel that you may simply be feeling the greater idea of yourself, what you may be evolving into?

**Questioner:** No. I feel as if it's what I already am, and I'm not sure how to manifest it in the realm that the regular life that I have.

**Bashar:** Are you saying that you do not trust that your life is bringing you the opportunities that are reflective of the next step you're supposed to be taking automatically?

**Questioner:** That sounds like it. That maybe... do you not trust that life can do that for you?

**Questioner:** I do. This seems there seems to be a contradiction. Cu I I do, and yet I get confused.

**Bashar:** Confused in the sense that you do not recognize the opportunity as an opportunity when it comes, or confused in some other way?

**Questioner:** I think I get afraid of the degree of abundance that I'm experiencing.

**Bashar:** For what reason?

**Questioner:** I'm not sure.

**Bashar:** You don't think you can handle it? You think it's something that you might lose? Something that perhaps is not... One moment. One moment. One moment. Are you afraid you might have to become, in the eyes perhaps of other people or even yourself, all of a sudden more responsible than you want to be responsible in a different way?

**Questioner:** Not not to people, Bashar. Responsible almost to a covenant.

**Bashar:** So you don't think that you can carry the torch? Mhm. So you do believe that it is possible. Yes. Is this what you are saying? You do believe that it is possible that you can actually be given something more than you can handle? Something that literally could overwhelm you? You really believe that that's possible for the universe to do?

**Questioner:** Not when you say it that way.

**Bashar:** [Laughter] It is possible to create the feeling of being overwhelmed certainly, but only by not trusting that you can handle what the universe gives you. As if that were possible. It really isn't possible. You know. You are a cup. You are a vessel. And yes, the universe is filling you up with abundance. Now, what you are worried about is the idea that you might overflow and that you won't be able to handle the excess. Is this a rough analogy of what you are saying?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** All right. I understand your analogy, but also understand it this way: when the cup is full, the cup doesn't have to worry about what spills onto the floor, because the cup only deals with what the cup has. Everything else doesn't belong to the cup. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes, I do.

**Bashar:** Does that help you define your parameters a little better?

**Questioner:** The cup seems to get bigger and bigger though.

**Bashar:** Oh, yes. The cup can grow. But that's all right, because again, there will always be the same relative scenario. The universe is infinite. You are infinite. Yes. You are feeling your own infinity. You are feeling your own infinite capacity. Yes. You will keep growing, expand and expand and expand and expand and expand and expand forever. Yes. But by definition, it will never be possible for it at any given moment to be more than you can handle. I'll tell you exactly why, too: because if it were, you wouldn't keep expanding. So in a sense, it is a failsafe mechanism. If you really feel you can't handle it, you'll stop expanding, and then you won't have to handle anymore. If you want to expand, then you will expand and be capable of handling more. And you will always be capable of handling what it is you are handed. And if you feel you can't, you will stop expanding and you won't be given anymore. You will always have that self-governing system. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes, I do.

**Bashar:** You are self-regulating. You were created and designed to be that way. Self-regulating in that sense. Again, remember the universe does not do pointless things. So if you feel that you are expanding and can handle no more, everything will stop at that level. The only thing that makes it feel that you may have to handle more than you're ready to is because you are worried that the Universe might not be hearing you say "enough, enough, enough, enough." But you *are* that Universe. You are self-regulating. You will hear yourself. You will say, "All right, wait a minute, stop. All right, all right, go on. All right, wait a minute, stop. All right, go on." You'll do that forever. So relax into the mechanism as being self-governing, and then you can simply with ease and with grace say, "All right, go on. All right, stop. All right, go on. All right, stop." That's okay. That's an all-right process. You don't have to worry that by saying "stop, stop, stop, stop, stop," you are somehow defeating the idea of the torch you're supposed to carry. It's up to you. No one wants you to proceed faster than you are ready to proceed, because if you did, you would be worthless. And who would want that? You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes, I do.

**Bashar:** Does this help you a lot?

**Questioner:** Thank you. Thank you very much.

# Q&A Session 5: Focus, Visualization, and Healing

**Questioner:** Shedding. Hello Bashar and to you good day. Well, a lot of my questions have already been answered, so I'm going to pull from some other ones in the back. All right. Um, I'm hoping that this will um, help to enrich uh, my experience of the process that we're going to do later. Oh. Um, what I really want very much is to become more consciously aware of um, my self, as you talk about the higher self. You know, my awareness of who I really am. And um, in meditation and the keys of ascension will help you in that in that sense.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** Well, in the P... but there is also one other technique if I may interrupt you, which can help you very strongly if you have not heard of it. It is called the Periscope Technique.

**Questioner:** I've heard you mention it, but I need to be refreshed.

**Bashar:** All right. Do you want me to refresh you now or wait until you are done?

**Questioner:** Why don't you wait till I'm done.

**Bashar:** All right. Okay. It's hard enough for me to keep my train of that. Okay. Well, just follow the track.

**Questioner:** Okay. Um, in the past I I've had difficulty retaining my focus, including times when we've had these kind of workshops together and you've taken us through meditations. Um, it's as if at a certain point I go away and I'm not saying that part of me isn't still there and getting it, but my conscious awareness is gone and I don't know where it goes to. And somehow you feel that this is something you're supposed to correct. Well, I'd like to be consciously aware of what's going on. Um, and and um, but who says you're not doing what you're supposed to be doing?

**Bashar:** Well, nobody. It just feels that way. You feel like you are out of integrity by doing that?

**Questioner:** I feel like I'm just out of it. I just... I don't feel I would like I would like to remember out of this, but what are you into?

**Bashar:** I don't know.

**Questioner:** You don't know?

**Bashar:** No. Well, where do you think you go?

**Questioner:** I don't have any idea. None. I really don't.

**Bashar:** Well, would you like to draw yourself a map?

**Questioner:** Sure.

**Bashar:** All right. Then that's your homework. That is your exercise: to lay down on paper what you think is representative of where you happen to be, and then where you think you go when you check out.

**Questioner:** What can give me a clue if I'm not aware of it now? Can I give you a clue?

**Bashar:** Yeah, yes. I can give you a couple. Okay. Use crayons.

**Questioner:** I am serious.

**Bashar:** Well, no, I'm asani, but you understand. Use crayons.

**Questioner:** Why am I telling you to use crayons?

**Bashar:** Um, to be more playful with it. Thank you. Because your child knows where you go. That's your biggest clue. Your child self knows where you go when you do that. And if you use crayons and lay out a map of those uncharted waters, your imagination by being a child will show you exactly where you go when you do that. And you'll find it's actually not such a bad place to be, and you'll find that it's all right to be there, and it's all right to go back and forth. And actually, that's one of the things you're learning to do is go back and forth anyway and blend the two realities together to some degree. We do actually give you an energy that really does allow you to ride the wind and get pushed out of this particular attention span focus. It's all right for you to follow that. I understand what you are saying. What you are looking for is more balance and blend between the two. Yes. Not so much that you must remain riveted right here, but that you're looking for balance and blend and conscious recognition and awareness between the two. Draw the map. Draw a line that represents the threshold. Left, right, up, down, doesn't matter. And draw what you think is representative of being here and focused, and draw what you imagine is representative of being there. Let this evolve as a game. All right.

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Now, the Periscope Technique is another ability, another tool you can use to help yourself. And this goes this way: all of you can use this. It is another idea of knowing you already are the higher self. Many of you have looked into either a toy periscope or a real periscope, so to speak, where you know that as you look in the periscope, you have a mirror here and a mirror here, and it lets you see what's over the wall or underneath this or around that without actually looking. You understand? Yes. You are seeing the image in the mirror of what's around the corner. Yes. Yes. All right. Remember how that feels to see an image in front of your eyes that actually isn't what's in front of you, that it actually is representative of somewhere else. Remember how that feels and apply this to physical reality in the following way: pretend that you are, when you look around in physical reality, just the bottom end of a periscope, and that the scene you're actually seeing is actually in a mirror up here in front of the eyes of your higher self. And that you're actually using your physical body as a periscope sticking it down into physical reality and looking around, but that the scene you see in front of what appears to be your physical eyes is actually in a mirror in front of your higher self non-physically. You understand? Practice that technique of pretending that what you see is in a mirror and that you're actually up above the physical reality seeing that image of physical reality that's down there and where your physical self is, but that you're up here looking at physical reality in a reflection of a mirror. And see if that doesn't start to reverse your sense of where you are, really where you are. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Using that will stretch you and blend you so that you really start to feel the connection between the non-physical and the physical. And it will start to dissolve that barrier. Now, you may get a little foggier, you may get a little dizzier for a time, but eventually you will learn how to blend the two in a type of stereoscopic vision that allows you to see a third reality that is representative of both. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. And yes. Um, I know better than to say, but too late. Um, and we we've gone through different processes over the years, you and I, on um, uh, visualization, because I used to believe I could not visualize, and you proved otherwise to me.

**Bashar:** Yes. However, no, you proved otherwise to you. But go ahead.

**Questioner:** Okay. You helped me to see that. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Nice choice of word. You. Um, in taking me through these processes, I saw that I can get quick glimmers of of of images. Yes. When I was a child, however, I was able to very um, in much in detail, see whole scenes and hold the the visions and create things that I didn't know and I and I that I seems to have gone.

**Bashar:** Yes. Okay. Use the crayons.

**Questioner:** Okay. Okay. It will help that too.

**Bashar:** Okay. It will help that too. The more you draw with crayons, the more you will reconnect with a child that knew how to see. Huh. All right. Okay. And now one quick other thing for a friend of mine.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right.

**Questioner:** Um, I have a friend who's been very sick for a couple of years, and um, even though she's aware of, you know, your information and and tries to utilize that in in healing herself and seeing how her illness is serving her, yes. Um, it doesn't seem to be um, it's not helping at this point, and she's beginning to get just frustrated and sick and tired of being sick and tired. And I was wondering if you could...

**Bashar:** Sick and tired of being sick and tired? What is the nature of the disease?

**Questioner:** It's called chronic fatigue syndrome, where her immune system seems to have kind of given out, and she gets ill all the time and has no energy at all.

**Bashar:** And for what duration of time in your counting has this been happening?

**Questioner:** Several years. Several meaning uh, two or three.

**Bashar:** That is a few. Okay. One moment. What is this individual's diet?

**Questioner:** Uh, at this point it's very very restrictive because she has um, allergic reactions to very many foods, so it's basically fruits and vegetables.

**Bashar:** Does she have a negative reaction to cucumber?

**Questioner:** I don't think so.

**Bashar:** This will be very good for infusing the body with certain enzymes to increase certain energy levels in the immune system indirectly. A slight increase in the intake of that substance may be of assistance to that individual. One moment. One moment. Many individuals also who go through this particular series of symptoms are actually reconstructing their lives, going through major changes, and it is simply necessary for them to go through it so that they will come out the other end a completely different person. It is simply one way that people have of doing this. Other individuals choose to to do this by going through accidents. It is a profound change taking place within this individual. It can be rebuilt. Can be rebuilt over time, but it may take some time yet. Maybe still another year or two, perhaps. But in time it will rebuild, recrystallize. Another technique if she has not used this will be the idea again of seeing herself as made of electromagnetic light, blue-white light, and recrystallizing, dissolving her body down into that electromagnetic liquid and recrystallizing it in a new form. Doing this three times a day, 10 minutes each time, three times a day, 10 minutes each time as a meditation, will help infuse her body with new energy as well and may allow it to take only 6 months for regeneration. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. Thank you. Is there um, any reflection as to why she's um, and how this is serving her? I mean, we have already said that she is rebuilding, reconstructing herself.

**Bashar:** Okay. By tearing down old ideas in this way, leaving her at some loss without some foundational principles, but she will replug them, reconnect them back in over time. By using the technique and the intake of that cucumber substance, she can reduce the amount of time from 1 to 2 years to 6 months.

**Questioner:** Thank you very much. RAR. Thank you.

## Belief Systems and Religion

**Questioner:** Sharing. Hello Bashar. I'm really and to you good day. I'm really grateful to be here today. Um, I came across your book about a couple months ago and I read it twice in two weeks. I really feel like it's a terrific handbook for living.

intellectually I really understand that it is totally possible for me to have exactly what I want. Here we go with the intellectualizing again, right? But the the part that I have a difficulty is taking that to my whole being so that I really truly truly believe it.

**Bashar:** Yes. Well, that's why we constantly stress that one of the primary things that is necessary for you to do that is the action itself. When you see in your mind's eye the thing that is the vision you want, and you feel excited about it, you must actually literally physically act it out. You know, let's talk about being a child once again. When you're children, you all know exactly what to do to manifest your reality. You daydream. You pretend. You pretend. You physically act out your imagination. You get excited about it. "I am a pirate! I am a space pilot! Zoom zoom!" You understand? Maybe it's difficult for you as adults to understand what I am saying to you because you have all been taught out of the tools of manifestation that you all instinctively understand as a child. But when I say "act out your vision," I mean get out there and "zoom zoom." I mean it. Physically act out your vision to the best that you actually can. Because by doing that, you will be encompassing the vision, the feeling, and the physical body, and that's what will give you the ability to allow it to integrate into the totality of your consciousness. That's why the physical activity is so important. It locks it in. It grounds you. It completes the cycle. You understand?

**Questioner:** But I guess you know, I get to a certain point then I think, how can I think it's possible because I've just never seen any models? I mean, I feel like I have really big dreams.

**Bashar:** You never see any models? All right. What is your biggest dream?

**Questioner:** That I can have exactly everything that I want in life.

**Bashar:** And you know of no individuals that exist in your planet that get everything they want in life?

**Questioner:** I haven't really met anybody.

**Bashar:** Why don't you go find some? Use even someone who is closely representative. Closely representative of that idea. Can you think of any individual who might even be somewhat representative of that idea?

**Questioner:** Yeah, there are some people that I really admire.

**Bashar:** Then go talk to them. Let them rub off on you, or emulate them in your own way, knowing that if you emulate their vibration in your own interpretation, you will be existing on the same level of frequency that will attract to you the circumstances, the same kind of circumstances they attract into their life, to give you the same opportunities to act on them in the same way they do, so you can get the same results. You understand? Yes. Use the role models that you can. But that's why you are supplied with your imagination, because it is the strongest role model. If you see yourself in your mind's eye doing the thing you say you want to do, all you have to do is copy yourself in that vision, and you get the same reality. That's the point. That's why it's there. You are your best role model. That's what your visionary capability and imagination is there for. You understand? Yes. But you can't just sit there and go, "Well, that would be nice. Well, yes, I would be very excited if I could be that me, but I'll just sit here and daydream. I don't know how to be that me there. I am look at me. I'm going about excited doing all these wonderful fun things and I'm getting so excited watching, but how do I be that me?" Do you see the absurdity of this? "How do I be that me?" All you have to do is watch it so closely that you start acting like it, and then you *are* that you. That's how easy it can be. You understand? Mm. And as soon as you are that you, you will get the reality of that you. But you must really be that you. You cannot contradict yourself. You cannot see that that vision and then act contrary to what that you does. If that you is representative of what excites you the most, you can't see this and act like this. You have to act like this if that's what you see. And when you act like this, you give off a certain frequency. You attract the reality that is representative of that frequency. Remember the third absolute: what you put out is what you get back. And then you will get the opportunities, and if you act on those opportunities like that you in that vision would act, you'll get the results. Okay.

**Questioner:** One thing you say is the blueprint, the beliefs, right?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** Now I realized that part of my thing is, you know, I don't have the right blueprint in certain areas. You know, like my beliefs are not make like I I don't believe it's possible to have it all. Sort of, you know, I really want to have it all. So like that's a belief which I'm conscious of. But I think this... oh, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoo. You just told it to me. How can you be unconscious of it?

**Questioner:** Okay, I no. I said I am conscious of it. Okay. But I think there's lots of other beliefs which I'm not conscious of which also gets in my way.

**Bashar:** All right. So what can I do to help myself become at least conscious of it so I can work with it? Be a more expanded belief designer. Say to yourself: "All right. Maybe, maybe, maybe just maybe there are belief systems I have that I am unaware of that might be holding me back. What can I do about that?" Imagination. Oh, imagination says: "Why not design a new belief that takes all those unconscious beliefs into account in such a way that no matter whether they exist or not, they will not stop the new belief from allowing you to do what you need to do? So that the new belief will override all the unconscious ones." Why not design a new belief that takes that into account?

**Questioner:** Well, and the old beliefs will go away?

**Bashar:** They will transform, or they will come up so that you can become consciously aware of them so you can deal with them. But the point is, is you have the ability to design a new overriding parameter, a new program, that includes the possibility that you have beliefs you're not aware of, but includes them in such a way that you know it will force them to the surface so you can become aware of them so you can change them. You can create a command program belief that will allow you to know what all the unconscious beliefs are when you need to know them. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yeah. And just I'm thinking, wow, that's neat. And I'm thinking, how do I do that? Well, that's neat, but I don't believe it.

**Bashar:** Well, how do I do that? I just told you how. Just create this command belief and it will... you see, you see, you see, you don't think it's that easy. You don't believe it's that easy. All the beliefs you have ever bought into, even the ones you may be unconscious about, were created in the same way. What's so different about this? You just think the other beliefs have more power because you're used to them. That's all. They don't have any more power than that. You created them in the same way.

**Questioner:** Yes. It's that easy. Just by designing the new belief and knowing that that's equally in effect, it will automatically incorporate all the other beliefs into the matrix and bring them to you in whatever way, shape, or form at the appropriate time that they need to be brought to your attention for you to deal with them in the best possible and most constructive way. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yeah. That's neat.

**Bashar:** Yes. It is. That's great. And it does work. It does work. It does work. It does work. Okay. Repeat after me: "It does work."

**Questioner:** It does work.

**Bashar:** "It does work."

**Questioner:** It work.

**Bashar:** "It does work."

**Questioner:** Why?

**Bashar:** Because I've done it before. Thank you. But even more fundamentally, why does it work?

**Questioner:** Because it does.

**Bashar:** All right. But even more precisely, why does it work? Louder.

**Questioner:** Because I say so.

**Bashar:** Oh. Okay. Because who else is in charge of you? All right. Because I say so. And I will make it happen. I say so. Really been like keeping in mind all the time about following my excitement. Keeping in your mind? Well, doing it. I have been doing it. But what's been happening is that I have been doing so much of it that physically, yes, I'm like, I don't... I'm burnt out.

**Bashar:** No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And I'm trying to understand, you know, how is that? All right. All right. All right. Remember that there may be a period of time when you are bringing up certain ideas that may be within you, and you may be dealing with transforming these things. Your degree of resistance to that transformation is what is tiring you out. Doing what excites you does not tire you out. Your degree of resistance to your natural self in the process of becoming what you want to be is what tires you out. You understand? It's resistance. The degree of resistance you have to change, to becoming what you really are, is what tires you out. Not the thing that excites you. The excitement never tires you out. That is your sustaining energy. It is your true natural self. It cannot tire you out. Perfect alignment with that excitement is absolutely energizing and sustaining. Any burning out you feel is simply the result of the degree to which you have resisted being the natural self in the process of becoming it. See? Then I get confused because I think, is a truly following my excitement, or am I really, you know, doing something that I shouldn't be doing?

**Bashar:** All right. Understand something very important: you are in a world of vast limitations. For thousands of years, it has been drummed into you all sorts of limitations. It may take a little time, a little time, for you to really break through that threshold and allow your natural self to sustain you completely. You can take a break. It's all right. Again, remember: no one expects you to go faster than you are comfortable going. If doing the thing—or I will say it this way—if attempting in that sense to become the person you want to become tires you out, take your time. Take a break. There's no rush. Be kind to yourself. Love yourself. If you know that doing this is what excites you, keep moving in that direction, but change the pace to what is really overall representative of what excites you the most. Sometimes there is confusion on your planet about the idea that just because this thing excites you more than anything else, you have to hurry up and do it. The idea is: you have to do what excites you in the way it excites you to do it. So if for now it is actually easier, more comforting, and more peaceful for you to do what excites you the most at a different pace, then that's the way you need to do it. You don't have to bring assumptions with you that you have to do the thing that excites you at a pace that's not comfortable for you, because then in all reality, by definition, you're not really doing the thing that excites you in the overall sense. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. There's still some confusion. Well, I guess the confusion was I started to almost doubt myself, saying, well, you the things that excite me, I started to almost doubt myself because I'm thinking, you know, because I'm tired, you know, because I'm getting overwhelmed and I'm, you know, feeling burnt out, is because I think I'm actually doing stuff that's from my higher self, but it's really from my ego. So therefore that's why the resistance is happening. So I'm confused whether it's what you said that you I was just going too fast, or whether... let me ask you two questions. Are you, in doing what excites you, are you still holding on to other things that don't, or ways of doing the thing that excites you that don't excite you? Are you holding on to any of those two things?

**Questioner:** Poss... yes. Probably.

**Bashar:** And what would they be?

**Questioner:** It's interesting. All of a sudden I'm like getting zoned out. I'm not clear anymore. Can you can you ask your question again, please?

**Bashar:** Sign. It's a good sign. Trust me. You're finally letting go of something. Okay. You please ask the question.

**Questioner:** Yes, I will relax. Okay. In doing the thing you say really excites you, are you still holding on to either A) something that has nothing to do with that that doesn't excite you, or B) are you attempting to do the thing that excites you in a way that is not exciting to you? Are you doing either of those two things?

**Questioner:** Probably a bit of both.

**Bashar:** All right. That's where your tiredness is coming from. You understand? That's what we mean by the resistance in attempting to become what you want to become. Because if you see a certain thing that excites you, but you're still holding on to something that doesn't, it's like dragging a 100 lb weight behind you. That makes you tired. Let go. You don't need it. If you are doing the thing that excites you in a way that's not exciting to you, your expectations and assumptions may be telling you that that's the only way you can do it. But that's not an exciting methodology, and that can drag you down by assuming that the only way you could do it is through this way, which is not exciting. Two things about that:

One: Allow yourself to understand again that doing what excites you the most is a complete kit, and that means that it will attract into your life all the best ways. If there's something you need to learn before you do this exciting thing, it will attract to you a way that is just as exciting as the exciting thing, because the way you learn how to do the exciting thing is a part of the exciting thing. And there's no reason to assume that what you have to learn in order to do the exciting thing should be any less exciting.

Number two: There may be things that you are doing that you really should be doing, but you are labeling them as not exciting because again of what you have been taught to think about them. And perhaps you have to get in touch with certain portions of yourself in order to change those labels of that thing and allow that thing to be as exciting as it actually could be. You have to decide and determine for yourself whether you really are doing something in a way that's not exciting, or whether it really is the most exciting way you could be doing it, but that you're labeling it as not being such because of some other idea you have within yourself that you have been taught. When you get in touch with that, you will then understand that there is no reason to do anything that excites you in any other way than the way that excites you, and in any other place than the place that excites you.

Very often people on your Planet will tell us, "Well, I really want to do this exciting thing, and I keep trying and I keep trying and I keep trying, and I can't seem to do this exciting thing." And let us say they are in Pipy [Poughkeepsie?] and they say, "Well, this exciting thing I can't seem to do it." And we say, "Well, what is this exciting thing?" "Well, I'd love to have a retreat in Santa Fe." "Well, what are you doing in Pipy?" "Oh." "Yeah. Well, I thought I could just do this exciting thing here while I'm here because I'm afraid to move." Well, there's the problem. The idea again is that you must look at the thing that excites you as a whole picture. A whole picture. No offense to Poyy [Poughkeepsie?]. The idea is that it must be done in all the ways that are exciting and in the places that are exciting to be the exciting thing. You understand this?

**Questioner:** Yes, I got it. Thank you. Yeah, I got it. Because I wasn't doing it in all the ways I wanted to do it because I felt it was not possible to have it exactly the way I wanted it.

**Bashar:** Thank you. That's what's burning you out. Your resistance to the truth that you can have it exactly as you want it. Because I say so.

**Questioner:** Thank you.

**Bashar:** Because you say so. End of story. Thank you very much. Thank you. You may all enjoy a short break. We'll resume contact in approximately one and a half to two of your hours of counting. We thank you very much. Allow yourself to enjoy and digest your break. Your information. Yourselves. Relax within yourselves. Be fresh and be prepared to become new selves as we continue.

# Q&A Session 7: Platonic Solids and DNA

**Questioner:** Will say, let's continue with sharing. You may proceed. Hi Bashar and good day to you. Um, we played a spinning game once and um, I marked out a matrix, so I'd like to do a a holographic game question.

**Bashar:** All right.

**Questioner:** And um, I'll mark out the matrix points and I'll give a little explanation. Is that's okay?

**Bashar:** Okay.

**Questioner:** We talked about the platonic solids and the fact that there were 5 designated, but there really are 8, the sixth of which is the Tesseract. 

So that's the first point. Could you relate that to what you talked about this morning with the seven chakras and the fact that the Tesseract is the sixth um, at located at the sixth chakra point, and that you didn't mention um, uh, icosahedron and dodecahedron.

**Bashar:** This is a different system altogether. 

What we are giving you as the keys of ascent are symbols that are connected to activation points. 

These are not exactly the same as the lineage as geometric solids, though some of them will overlap and have certain similarities to them. 

The other regular solids, like the tesseract, do not exist exactly in the physical reality dimension. It requires an extra dimensionality, an extra quality—that of self-interactivity—before these other regular solids can be created. 

But the Tesseract acts as the bridge between the physical and non-physical reality, pointing the way to the extra forms which really have no names per se and can really only be experienced from the fourth-dimensional state. 

But the Tesseract is the one that coexists with both feet: one in one world, one in the other world. 

Bridging the two and allows you to see the direction in which the others would exist.

There do exist in your reality to some degree shadow forms, bits and pieces of these higher-dimensional regular solids. 

But again, these things do not really have an exact naming in your language. They have from time to time been perceived by certain individuals in certain ways, but you generally only see them as flat images, flat designs, flat patterns, because that is the only way your physical mentality can make sense out of the higher-dimensional forms. 

The Tesseract is the last level on which your physical mind can basically perceive the idea that we are discussing as self-interacting forms, or self-overlapping forms, or forms that occupy in a sense the same space as another form, apparently from your point of view.

The idea of the keys we have chosen is that they are relative to your physical reality and the levels of reality non-physically speaking that are immediately connected to your electromagnetic field and are generally representative of your version of the higher realms, but are not actually the forms of the higher realms themselves. 

There is a difficulty in translating this directly into your language and into your concepts, but the forms we have chosen will at least be analogies of some of the higher dimensionalities and will suffice to act as symbols representative enough to get your vibration to move in the direction that it needs to, ultimately eventually in your evolution leading to a more direct experiential understanding of the higher forms and the higher realms themselves. 


**Questioner:** Please repeat the formation you gave for the chakras, those symbols are uh, visual doorways in a sense, geometric doorways?

**Bashar:** Yes. That will assist in connecting to the higher realms. Yes. They are geometric translations of vibrational equations.

**Questioner:** The platonic solids, if we were to go from 1 to 8 um, with the test AC [Tesseract] be number six, then could you give a flattened visual image for number seven if you said before that these would have to be created and shown to you, which is not possible right now? 

**Bashar:** There are no names for these shapes in your language already existing. 

You said number 8 could be represented as a sphere.

**Bashar:** That is being used in this case only as an analogy for certain other kinds of expressions in your physical reality. 

There are shadow forms similar to the tesseract which could be drawn to represent the same equations.

For now, the idea of some of the higher forms we have described are not direct representations but are only analogies to get you to move in a certain vibrational direction. 

They are not representative of the forms themselves, and the shadows of the forms themselves are not representative of what we are showing you as the keys of ascension. 

The keys of ascension are more for the purpose of changing a vibrational frequency rather than showing you the actual forms of the places you are going to when you change your vibrational frequency. 

Through the keys of ascension, you may find yourself perceiving these forms and then may yourselves be able to draw the shadow representations in three-dimensional terms that are representative of these higher-dimensional forms. But we do not use the forms themselves per se because there is no way to really translate that. 

We simply use a rough analogy to get your vibration to change in the proper way to give you the ability to experience these forms and dimensions directly. 


**Questioner:** And this is the 1 through 15 that you were describing, which is a separate idea altogether, but they're all the keys of ascension?

**Bashar:** Is not exactly the same lineage as the platonic solids or that which would be represented by higher-dimensional forms in the way we have just discussed it.

**Questioner:** Okay. It is a different system. Can we make these parts of the matrix and can I go to the next one -- The DNA? We discussed the Star of David. Yes. And the second interlocking triangle is that non-physical?

**Bashar:** Yes. Are you talking about the reflective triangle?

**Questioner:** Yes, yes. The lower one.

**Bashar:** In a sense has non-physical properties and physical properties as well. 

Both the first level of the tetrahedron showing its reflection is the first level where you have both physical and aetheric qualities. They are still below the level of the tessera [tesseract], but they do begin to exhibit the ethereal qualities of the non-physical. But there is a type of physicality in that they are still a part of the electromagnetic fluid that makes up your physical realm. When we talk about the higher forms, they are tremendously beyond the concept of non-physicality. 

They are not even associated with the idea of physicality at all. They are other-dimensional realms that have nothing to do nor ability to be translated into terms of physical/non-physical. Even the term "non-physical" doesn't apply. It is pure interactive consciousness. But even that may not make sense to you. 

They are self-reflective, completely self-reflective cognitions within creation itself. Are you understanding this?

**Questioner:** That's the other half of the DNA strand.

**Bashar:** There are pieces of your DNA strand missing, right? I understand that. Yes. Some of them have been equated into non-physical form and still exist there. Some of them exist on higher planes altogether, nothing to do with physicality. But the keys of ascension will eventually affect the genetic structure of the DNA strand to give you back at least most of what it is that has been taken out.



## Choosing Beliefs and Children

**Questioner:** after thinking about where to begin, I chosen to start with the belief system.

**Bashar:** Yes. You said that it's important to choose a belief system.

**Questioner:** Yes. I'm having a hard time with that.

**Bashar:** Are you not in all cases? Sometimes it is easy for you.

**Questioner:** Understood. But I don't know why it's easier sometimes and not easier other times.

**Bashar:** Because when it is easy, you do not bring expectation into it. You just do it. Right. There are certain times when you simply know what you want and you just choose it exactly. There are other times when associations are being attached to the belief, conditions are being put upon the beliefs, and you in that sense sometimes will bow to the conditions rather than just going for the pure belief. This is simply how many of you have been trained. That's all. It's just a matter of training. Just a matter of habit. Just a matter of practice.

**Questioner:** How do I change that?

**Bashar:** First, by knowing that you can. That's the first clue. By knowing that you can. By knowing it is not absolutely chiseled in steel or fixed in form. By knowing that your beliefs are mutable, malleable, transformable. You understand so far?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** A belief will always attempt to make itself seem to be absolute in its nature. That is the way you experience reality. Belief must be self-fulfilling, self-reinforcing, and carries with it generally as part of its equation an automatic inability to know that other beliefs can replace it. Otherwise, you would not be able to experience limited reality, which does have a positive purpose. So the idea first of all is to recognize that the very formula of a belief is self-reinforcing, and that's to some degree what has made it difficult for many of you to realize that you do in fact change them all the time. Many times when you change your belief, you don't really realize that you have, because the new belief leaves no clue of the old belief and leaves no awareness that there can be a new belief after that. You understand me so far?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** All right. Are you sure?

**Questioner:** No.

**Bashar:** All right. Each belief is an equation that sets up a certain reality. That reality has to appear for the purpose of experiencing that reality as if that really is the only true reality that exists at that moment. Thus, by definition, many realities are exclusive of the possibility of even knowing that another reality can exist. That's how belief systems can manifest in physical reality. Now you're in the transformational age where you are beginning to include as one of your belief systems that other belief systems can exist and that you can actually change from one to the other. That's why you're exploring this whole notion at all. So now your beliefs are becoming more open-ended, and this is what is causing some confusion in many individuals. And it is also the reason this idea of self-reinforcing realities... why so many religions and other philosophical belief systems upon your planet always think they have the truth, the one truth, the one right way, and everyone else is wrong. It's because for them, that is true. Their truth is true. But all truths are true. That's the whole point. What you're learning now is that all truths are true. But when you're in one particular truth, it designs itself to seem as if all other truths are false. Otherwise, you can't focus on the one truth. You can't experience that one particular truth in all of its limited glory. But now you're beginning to understand that all truths are true, and so now, now you have the ability to move ahead and to create within yourself an understanding that as soon as you acknowledge that all truths are equal and equally choosable and one does not have more power than another to manifest, then you begin to equalize and balance all the possibilities in your life. And then it's just a matter of preference, not a matter of "well, I can't choose that one because it's more difficult than this," or "if I choose that, it will make it impossible to choose that one." Now it's just: all right, here's this choice, here's that choice. It's positive, it's negative, doesn't matter. I just prefer this. I just prefer that. And knowing, knowing as we said before, that the act of choosing itself, the act of making the decision itself, is the creative act. Then you can know that as soon as you choose, you have changed the entire reality. With every choice comes the change of the reality completely. Completely. Completely.

The one thing, the one belief that makes it seem or might make it seem as if that is not happening is that there is only one reality and that any changes you experience are only small changes within the one reality that never changes. Instead of understanding that each and every apparently small change you make actually changes the total reality, and therefore the total you.


**Bashar:** we use the analogy that we call the blue cube. Imagine in your mind a blue cube. All six sides are blue. Have you got it? Mhm. Have you got it? All right. Now in your mind, change just one side to red. Just one. All right. Now, two ways to look at this: "Same blue cube, but now I've changed just one side to red. Small change, but it's still the blue cube. I've just changed one face." Or you can say, "Wait a minute. Wait a minute. A cube with five blue sides and one red one is fundamentally different than a cube with six blue sides. They are two completely different concepts. Two completely different cubes. Two completely different realities." So it's not just a small change; everything has changed. This is another equation. This is another belief altogether and has nothing, nothing, nothing to do with the old cube. When you look at it that way, it becomes easy to change everything in your reality because you know that any change is a change in everything. But if you have the overriding belief that this little change changes nothing much, then it takes a long time and you feel there's an inertia and a momentum to the old reality that still overrides all the things you want to change. And you make it take longer because you think you have to change all the little pieces in order to change the whole, instead of understanding that if you change one piece, you have changed the whole thing. These are two completely fundamental different ways of looking at life, and they have profound differences in the effects that they give you.


**Questioner:** Well, I think it's a little deeper than that. Well, I'm having some confusion with that. Well, I'm having some confusion with the religion subject. Right. In what way?

**Questioner:** Well, the fact that there is a God, yes, and there are so many religions out there. I I feel like I feel like I have to choose a religion.

**Bashar:** Why?

**Questioner:** Um, the only thing you need to know is your relationship to all that is. That in a sense is a religion. But I want to um, I have children. I want to raise them with respect for the Lord.

**Bashar:** Start in your home. With the Bible. It doesn't matter. But the idea is to understand this: generally, what you call religion on your planet, the ones that you recognize as mainstream religions, have generally been structured to take your power away from you. Have been structured to disconnect you from your natural relationship to all that is and to get you to hand over the responsibility of that connection to someone else. And I don't agree with those religions. Then there is no reason for you to teach your children those structures. All you need to do is put them in touch with the fact that they are aspects of the infinite. That is their relationship. And that's where it all began anyway. The ritualization is up to each and every individual. Each person is their own religion in that sense of how they wish to represent their connection to the infinite. As long as you instill within them that they are already aspects of the infinite, and if they know they are already as powerful as they need to be to create whatever reality they want without having to hurt themselves or anyone else in order to do it, there's nothing else you need to teach them. Let them manifest their relationship to the infinite in whatever way feels correct for them, because whatever way feels correct for them will be the way that the infinite wishes to express itself as that person. You understand? Mhm. Keep it simple. Keep it very simple. Let them be self-realized beings and decide how they wish to express a connection that already exists. You don't need religion to give you the connection. The connection is already there. Religion is just a way of expressing the connection that's already there. And the less ritual a person needs, the less religion they need. 


## Guided Meditation: The Keys of Ascension

Become very, very comfortable. Put down all your things. There will be no writing. There will be no recording. There will be nothing that you need to pay attention to. Do not have anything that will demand your attention other than what will happen spontaneously within your imagination in the following meditation. Do not attend to any other physiological needs or desires or wants. Just let them go. You will miss nothing. You will know everything that you need to know. Allow yourself to close your eyes and take three deep breaths.

Your imagination knows what it's doing. Therefore, at any time during this meditation, if you find yourself focusing on something different than what you perceive is actually literally being said, let it go that way. Have faith in yourselves. You know what you're doing. You will miss nothing. It will all sink in. Believe me, it will all sink in. Let us be concerned about that. We will find the doorways as you open them. We will insert the keys into the locks. They will open. Just be willing. Just be willing. That's all you need to do. Just be willing, and you will be open enough to receive the benefit that you need to receive. You may find that once this meditation has been delivered, you will want to listen to it a few times. You will want to again practice with it, and I would suggest that you do practice with it every day if possible. Practice it until you really know that you have really become familiar with that vibrational state, that vibrational state of your higher self.

Now let us begin. Breathing evenly. At peace. Feeling the joy and the love, the unconditional love that you were created with from all that is. Relaxing into your true natural selves. All the ideas of doubt, all the ideas of worry, dissolving, dissolving, becoming more and more transparent, allowing you to see for what they are: just thoughts, just notions, just beliefs. Not steel, not concrete, not even wood, not even paper, not even air. Insubstantial. Only as real as you believe it to be. On and off. Here and gone. Opaque. Transparent. Heavy. In light. Light. Light. Light.

Now let the light fade. Fade. Fade to darkness. And all-encompassing. All-embracing. All-supportive. Deep, velvety, velvety darkness of great potential. Formlessness. Absolute, eternal formlessness. You are floating. Just floating in that formlessness. Deep. Rich. You sense the potential within that formlessness. Yet all directions now are the same. Infinite in all directions. You are at the center of a place that has no center. It is formless. Timeless. Spaceless. No space. No place. Nowhere. Nothing. Nothing at all.

But then, a realization. A cohesiveness. A crystallization takes place within the consciousness itself that is the formlessness. A realization that even nothing is something. And it crystallizes. Collapses the infinite depth of the formlessness. Collapses to a single point. A single point. A one-dimensionality. And a birth. A birth of self-reflective awareness is concentrated in that single point. All potential exists in that one space. That one point. And has no real thickness. It has no real depth. It just is. It is isness itself. Concentrated. Concentrated existence.

And now the first step: feel the vibration of that isness. That fundamental low vibration. Deep, resonant vibration. A hum of all that can be. All that can be. Feel the deep, deep vibration of all that can be.

And now, in that realization, sense, sense that concept of polarity, of self-reflectivity, of a mirroring. One point. Now two points. And between them, a line connecting them. The two points are simply two ends of a line, but the line can stretch to infinity, and the two points become two points on the line. The line is straight and true. A line of light stretching forever. Feel the slight raise in vibration from the single point of the vibration raising to a line stretching forever. Onward forever. Out forever. And ever. And ever. And you feel that pitch, that vibration.

And now another realization: if you could move in this direction, you can move in another direction. And the line vibrates like the cord of a string. Vibrates. Vibrates. Giving birth to a new dimension. And it turns and vibrates and vibrates and turns and turns into a plane. Flat and true. Stretching perpendicular to the line forever and ever and ever. Humming and vibrating with potential and energy in a thin, thin, thin plane. No thickness at all. Just thin. Just plain. Just out and away. All directions out and away. A never-ending horizon. Never-ending horizon. Vibrating. Vibrating at a higher pitch. Containing an infinite number of lines which contain an infinite number of points. An infinite number of points rising to an infinite number of lines rising to an infinite plane. An infinite plane. Vast potential. And yet you know, yet you know there is something more. Something higher. Yet another direction that you could move in. It's no longer an "outness." What is it? What is it you search for? That new direction of self-reflection. It is not just an outness, but it is an outwardness. An upness. A down. A depth. A weight. A mass. A space. A volume. A time. And you stretch. You stretch up and down into the cube. The cube of physical space. The grounding. The anchoring. The solidity. The sharpness. The definition. The volume. The depth. The richness that it contains. The sense of within-ness. Within-ness. Volume. Volume. Physicality. Physicality. Structure. Physicality. Structure. Crystallization. Dimension. Reality. Reality. Realization. Reflectivity. All these concepts in the new vibration. The new equation of the cube.

And out of the blackness, the blackness that was there before, a new frequency. Dim it first. You scan for it in the depths of the cube. The black depths of the cube. You scan for it, and it begins as a soft glow. A glow you have never seen. Never knew was possible. And the glow is deep, deep red. Deep burning embers. The fires of creation. A new vibration. Hot. Hot and pure. Deep and true. Deep and true. And as you allow yourself to feel that vibration of redness, it fills that reality. Fills the infinite cube. You are immersed in the deep glowing embers of that vibration of deep red. And you feel it concentrate and focus. Focus on one of the lines, one of the volumes within that cube. This volume becomes the concept of a body. A crystallization taking place. A solidification taking place. And this red flows in. Flows in and through an opening. An opening. A gate. An energy. A swirling energy. Collecting. Compacting. Amassing in what becomes the lower chakra of this upward line. This upward form. This new body. This new crystal. It is the lowest point. The root. The grounding. The foundation. The beginning. The alpha. The bottom line. And you feel this vibration of redness, this vitality, coursing through the entire crystal, but keeping its focal point in that bottom position. That first position. The first of yet many to come. And you feel its deep vibration as the sense of touch. Its self of awareness of physicality itself. Aliveness. Physicalness. Vibrancy. Vitality. Sexuality. Sensuality. Sensuality. Warmth. Warmth.

And now, as you feel that hum, that deep resonant hum vibrate throughout the entire crystal, it echoes back. Echoes back. And where the echoes, where the ripples cross themselves, a new vibration. A higher vibration. More energy collects. And it raises the red vibration upward and upward and upward and upward until it takes on an orange glow and forms the second point. And the cube seems to collapse in upon itself to form a four-sided pyramid. And it glows with orange-golden fire. And all of a sudden, a new dimension erupts within this space. An orange glow that takes its place above the red and forms the containment. The receptacle. The feeding source. The sustenance. The stomach. The belly. The idea of that which provides. That which sustains. That which gives energy. That which in a sense gives a form of emotionality of contentment, of support from all that is. And this orange glow allows you a new sensation of touch, one that starts a new vibration. And the echo comes back. The first echo is heard by you, and the sense of hearing opens up a whole new dimension of receptivity. The first echo creates the hearing sense and brings it into existence and manifestation.

And as this new hearing comes back again, self-reflective echoing upon itself, a new vibration. A new energy ever upward begins to turn the orange brighter, brighter, brighter into a hotter, hotter, hotter fire of gold and yellow glow. And the pyramid, the four-sided pyramid, collapses yet again into a tetrahedral structure. Four-sided. A base of an equilateral triangle and three more equilateral triangles. Collapsing it again into a sharp, sharp, bright point. And this rises upwards into the pit of what becomes the solar plexus under the growing rib cage. That which sends out a beam of yellow-golden light to connect you to the concept of past and future selves. A beam perpendicular running through the new body, ever outward, infinitely ever outward, to connect you to the ultimate future, the ultimate past. Allowing you to know yourself as a linear time-frame being. Knowing your connection to all time, all places, all dimensions along all of the electromagnetic planes of physical fourth-dimensional reality. All futures and all pasts within time are you. And this vibration, this golden glow, this feeling that permeates you with warmth and energy and vibrancy, erupts into a new sense. Like a dawning sun. And sight. Behold. Sight appears. "Let there be light." The first dawn. The first day. The golden glow of the rising sun. And all is before you. The land, the reality, the waters are laid out before you. All is made of you. Physical reality is the expression and echo of the center of your being. The echo of the center of your being. The knowingness. The conviction. Conviction. Vibration. You see and behold.

And as you behold now more clearly, do you see the reflections and the echoes that have been coming to you? You see as in a mirror in brightest day. In brightest day. You see these reflections come back and add and build and raise the vibration yet once again. But now, now you understand the polarity. As you see the light, you now understand it is the opposite of the dark. And as you understand polarity in physical reality, as you move the vibration up into green. Green. Brilliant emerald green. A crystallization. An understanding takes place. And polarity manifests in a new dimension. The tetrahedron pointing up now gives you a tetrahedron pointing down. Now you know you move in both directions. That you are both directions. That both directions come from the center of your being. And it opens up a new center. A new chakra. Your heart. You are flooded with understanding. Compassion. Flooded with understanding, compassion, and feeling in the joy of creation. The emotion. The emotion. The energy-motion of creation vibrates and resonates and sings throughout you. Vibrates the crystal that you are with this new shape, this new color, this new understanding. And it enriches. Enriches the reality. This new shape gives you a subtlety. Shadings. Colorations. And the sense of taste is born. The appreciation of the degree of differentiation and subtlety. This subtlety. This enrichment. And love. And verve for life itself. You taste of life. You drink of life. And you explode with sensations large and small, subtle and strong. Life is rich. Rich beyond imagination. Beyond compare. Green and abundant is the vibration of the heart chakra.

And as you are overcome with joy, overwhelmed, you must find an outlet for this energy. And so you raise the vibration yet again. And it becomes a deep, crystalline, vibrant blue. Blue. Electromagnetic fire. This vibration is intense. You are vibrating the entire crystal of your being. It hums. Hums with a high pitch. A high frequency. As you glow with this electromagnetic fire and light. And this new expansion turns into the octahedral crystal of eight. 8. 8. The key of infinity. The key of life. The breath of life. And in comes the sense of smell. Of everything having to do with breath and breathing and air. Eight. Eight. The air. Eight. Eight. The oxygen. The invigoration. The burning fire of life. The breath of life. The high vibration of physical vitality. You are alive and connecting and connecting and connecting to other energies. The breath of life. Less and less and less dense substance do you need to sustain yourself. You are alive with light. And light and breath and breath sustains you. And light sustains you and supports you. And it is what you eat. And it is what you breathe. And you become this blue fire. And you crystallize and refine and clarify and purify. And sing with a pure tone of blue light. A high, vibrant, clear, resonant vibration. And bone of pure mathematical energy and light. Mind is created. You are aware of self-reflectivity through mind and intelligence. You key into all electromagnetic phenomena. You vibrate in accord, in resonant harmony, with all dimensions of vibrational electromagnetic phenomena. You know and understand all matter. All mineral. All vegetable. All animal. All consciousness within the physical plane vibrates in accord to this blue light. And you speak your truth. And you breathe your truth.

And as you do so, you rise yet again. And rise and rise into the deep, vibrant indigo light of the third eye. And it opens doorways. Doorways of dimensionality and changes. Changes. 

As indigo vibration goes deep within you. Deep, deep, deep blue vibration within you opens doorways. Self-churning like the deepest portions of the ocean. Containing much information. 

Much knowledge. And becomes the tesseract. The hypercube. Dimensions and doorways open and open and open and open. Unfold. Unfold. Unfold. And this third eye chakra allows you to perceive that you have a sixth sense beyond the five of touch, hearing, sight, taste, smell. A sixth sense of orientation. Of direction. Magnetically aligned behind your eyes. Outward like a compass. Outward like a needle through all dimensions. Through all thresholds. You know what you know. What you know. You are the vibration of knowledge and information. You are the akashic records. You are all the lifetimes, future and past. You are the vibration of the total seed of all physical reality. And this seed. This seed. This deep indigo-blue seed with the hard shell casing vibrates and vibrates and vibrates. And a sprout cracks the shell and moves upward. Upward. Like a blossom. To the crown. The crown. And blossoms with a beautiful, vibrant violet flower. And causes there to be a glow. An expansion. And the tesseract collapses into the torus. The ring. The halo. Glowing vibrantly white-hot at the center of the violet light. White-hot. And surrounded in the gentle, beautiful, beautiful violet glow. That sings a thousand songs. And bears a thousand petals. And is a thousand stories. A thousand vibrations. A thousand chords in one harmony. A high physical vibration. You are at the peak. You are at the pinnacle. You are on the mountaintop of physical reality. You are fulfilled. You see far and wide. You are the vista of life itself. You contain it all. You are it all. You are joy and passion. You are ecstasy. The vibration of ecstasy.

And as your ecstasy builds, and as your ecstasy grows, that white-hot center grows and grows and grows. The white-hot ring in the violet light grows and grows and becomes a spinning disc. A spinning thick sphere. Flattened like a galaxy. A galactic disc. You are rising above the mountain. Levitating up and up and up. Faster and faster and faster. Higher and higher and higher. Until the world is far below. And you become. You become. You become the stars and the galaxy spinning at its center. Spinning. Spinning. You are one vibration of white light. Knowing. Glowing. Spinning. Being. Compassion.

And as you spin and spin and spin and spin, you expand and expand and expand and expand into a sphere of clear, transparent light. Silvery. Silvery-clear, transparent light. A sphere. A sphere. A sphere. All that is. All that is. Unconditional love. All that is. And at this moment, the moment of perfect power. Perfect place. Perfect peace. Perfect energy. Clear, silver, transparent energy. Lock. Lock this vibration. And unlock all your potential. Turn all the keys all at once. Everything opens. You are a flood of light. You are light itself. Pure, undifferentiated light itself. Itself.

Use all the tools in whatever way now you wish to use them. To apply for whatever purpose. For whatever desire. For whatever excitement. Use the tools now on this level. Use them. See. Feel. Be. Know. Do. Assign meaning. Give no. Be. Top all. Everything is. Use the tool. Expand and expand and expand and expand to infinity. Expand more and more and more and more. Let the energy carry this idea out. Let the energy carry out who you are, what you are, what you desire, what you know you are. And let the bubble pop. Let it go. Collapse to a disc. Collapse to a line. Collapse to a point. And rests. Rests. Rest.

And as this point, as this point, as this point slowly evaporates back into the formless all that is, it becomes the idea of birth. Of isness. It becomes the idea of birth of information. A seed. A seed of new potential that knows that knows that its heart of hearts and its highest wish has been sent to the universe. Let it go. Let it work. Allow all that is to answer. And as you dissolve back into the formlessness, you feel. You feel. You feel the gentle ripples. The gentle ripples. The gentle ripples of the answer. The echo from all that is of what you have sent out come back to you. And the ripples say: Yes. Yes. Yes. As the waves of the ocean constantly remind you. Yes. Yes. Yes. The calming. The soothing. Yes. Breathe with the assurance that you are a new being. A new reality. A new you. Yes. Yes. Yes. The universe has answered your wish. Yes. Yes. Yes. This vibration is yours. This tool is yours. It is our gift to you. Change your reality. Change your world. Change you. Be the you you desire to be. Because you say so. Yes. So. Yes. Yes. Yes. When in doubt, remember the universe says yes. Yes to you. Nothing is held back. Nothing is denied. Yes. Yes. Yes. You want to be who you really are. Your true self. Your true self. The universe says yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.

Take a deep breath. Open your eyes. Use this tool. Use this tool every day. Every day. Every day. I guarantee the changes will be profound. Thank you for allowing all of us to have arrived at the creation of this point wherein we were allowed to share this with you, to reflect this to you. You are now in the reality of your choosing, capable of functioning as an ascended being on any issue, on any subject. Use this meditational tool every day. Practice with it. Become familiar with yourself. Become familiar with seeing this you in the mirror. You are infinite and eternal and unconditionally love. Unconditionally love itself. You are unconditional love itself. The vibration of existence. Of love itself. Love itself. Love yourself. And ascend through that love to your highest aspirations. Your highest accomplishment. Live the dream that you are the pure, joyful dream of being one. Of being one. Of being. Of.

Now take a few moments just to let the wave wash through you of your new reality. Of your new tool. Awaken as a newborn into a new reality. Just feel yourselves. Just feel yourself. Your true self. Your godhood self. Your blended self. Male, female within each. Female, male within each. Light and dark. Hot and cold. Up and down. Left and right. Back and forth. All things blending at once within you. You are free. You are free to be who you know you are. You have the key. You are the key.

