---
heading: Part 1
title: "Higher Self"
description: ""
c: "indigo"
a: Bashar
weight: 7
date: 1992-09-25
tags: ['']
---





## MAIN TEACHING: THE HIGHER SELF

The pope is a symbol of the higher self. And the higher self is the issue we would like to address this day of your time.

Many individuals have discussed this notion of the higher self. Many of you have wondered what is the higher self? Well, let us explain it in the following way.

The higher self is in a sense the idealized self of any particular life you may have. It is what you are aiming for in this life. It is that which is representative of the combination of goals, of themes, of destinies that you have set out for yourself as the person you chose to be in this life. That which you are bit by bit and day by day learning to become.

The idea of communicating with the higher self in any given life—and there is therefore obviously a higher self for each and every different life—but the obvious idea in understanding that it is representative of your ideal self is to recognize that communication with the higher self is in fact the process of becoming the higher self, of acting as the higher self. Not just simply carrying on some separate dialogue with something above you, for it is you.

It is what you have planned to be to become in this life as best as you can. Yes, there is a non-physical higher extension of yourself that you could say is the higher self. At times you feel you can be communicating with it. But remember it is you. And in that sense you are really talking to yourself, talking as yourself, talking with yourself, convincing yourself to be your best self, to move in the direction of the things that give you joy and passion and excitement because that is the vibration of your true self.

As we have discussed many times with many of you, that feeling of excitement, that feeling of passion, that feeling of joy, that vibration, that feeling is the true you, the true state of your natural self. Notice I did not say your normal self, your natural self.

And the higher self is the goal in a sense to attain in this life, following that passion the best you can, being as unconditionally loving as you can be both for yourself and for others. For if you do not start with yourself, how can you give to others?

Knowing that each and every one of you is a facet of the multi-dimensional crystal of all that is, and that the goal and the purpose of any individual life is to be that facet completely. That is your mission. That is your purpose. To be the you you are now. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. You have many lives. But the you you are now only has one life to live. Therefore, the purpose of this life now is to be the best you you can be, the fullest you you can be, the true self, the natural self that you have chosen to be. And your higher self contains all that information.

It is your self-chosen destiny, your self-chosen form of expression of your naturalness, of your truth. And the best way to talk to the higher self as I said is to be the higher self in physical terms.

Remember, remember, remember—your consciousness is not in your body. Your body is in your consciousness.

And the idea therefore is to recognize that the less separation you make, the less barriers you impose between the concept of yourself as a physical being and the concept of yourself as a non-physical being, then the smoother flow you will have, the greater opportunity you will have to act as the higher self.

And then to recognize that physical reality is not something you live in. It is what you are. Physical reality is you. It is an expression of the total consciousness that you are. You do not live in physical reality. It is simply an extension of how you see yourself. It is a reflection.

The very process of evolving spiritually, of becoming the higher self and the higher self becoming the oversoul and the oversoul becoming one with all that is—in how many ever stages you choose to create that event to take place—that process is the process of becoming the realm of becoming, becoming the reality of becoming the dimension itself that you previously thought you existed within.

So it is more a recognition of integration and actions that are representative of integration of those things that you have segregated and separated within yourselves, of those things you have created to be a multitude of fragments within your consciousness instead of a holistic understanding of motion, of intention, of integrity of action.

Integrity really fundamentally is nothing more than an alignment between your intentions and your actions. That is what integrity is. And as such you can certainly see from that simple definition that there can be positive and negative integrity because if your intentions are negative and your actions are negative then you are aligned and you have negative integrity. You are integrated in that sense. Although the concept in and of itself generally of negativity implies a lack of integration overall. We understand that.

But positive integrity brings with it therefore an acceleration in positive ways because positive energy is generally more integrative. Brings things together, connects things to each other, allows you to see the holistic view.

This idea therefore of becoming the higher self will involve your ability to align as strongly as clearly as precisely as you can your intentions with your actions.

So that you are not hiding from yourself, not running from your fears, but facing them, diving through them, learning from them and thus expressing in your life the new person you become through that process.

Remember, very important. Remember—Fear will never stop you from doing anything. Only if you are afraid to feel fear will you stop yourselves. Feeling the fear will never stop you from doing anything. If you feel it and use it and transform it, then you will achieve anything you wish and you will reintegrate yourselves and become the higher self in physical reality.

And as you do that, obviously you change the vibration of your entire world. Each individual makes a difference. Each individual makes a difference. I cannot possibly stress this enough. Every change, every change—take me absolutely literally—every single change you make within yourself changes the entire universe.

All the gears are connected, big gears, little gears. You know if you have a collection of connected gears where all the teeth are touching, even the smallest gear if it is turned even in the slightest degree will affect all the other gears. It is one thing. You are not isolated in that sense. Every change you make changes everything.

We extend to each and every one of you our deepest gratitude at being allowed to interact with your society in this way at this time. We thank you for functioning as ambassadors of your world and allowing us to function as ambassadors of ours.

The more you choose to function as equals to each other, to yourselves, to us, the more you create the possibility of our direct interaction with you. We thank you for the gift that may one day soon make it possible for us to interact freely with you, to play with you, to join with you, to share with you in ways far bolder than even this interaction today.

In return for the gift that you have been willing to give us, I ask you now, in what way may I be of service to you?

---

## INDIVIDUAL SHARINGS AND CONVERSATIONS

### SHARING ONE: Overcoming Blocks and the Fear of Power

**Good day. Good day. Good day to you. Good day to you, Bashar.**

*I came not really knowing what I was going to ask even though I wanted.*

**Congratulations. Perhaps that is sometimes best.**

*I'm still formulating as I'm standing here.*

**But remember, you do not need a question to interact with us. And sometimes a statement is preferable. Whatever you wish to say will be absolutely perfect whether it is a question or not. Begin as your feelings tell you to begin.**

*I am searching and wanting very much to experience as much of my higher self as I can just as you've been bringing to us in the few minutes before now.*

**Yes. And how have you been doing this so far?**

*By reading and sharing with others and going inside myself. And I come to a block. There is a question that I have that I don't know that I need to specifically state it, but I keep running into a block and not being able to fully step over. And fear seems to be what I run into.*

**Fear of what?**

*I don't know.*

**Well, let's use your imagination. All of you have sparkling imaginations and very often we find that you have absolutely no difficulty using that imagination when imagining negative things. But when it comes to positive things, oh, I don't know. I'm blocked. I can't figure out which way to go. My imagination doesn't seem to be working for me today. Yesterday, when I was in fear and panic, it was working wonderfully.**

Therefore, you could say you have a great advantage in figuring out what it is you fear because we know your imagination will always work for you. Will never let you down when it involves the idea of discovering what it is you are afraid of. So, let's use that imagination. Let's not be afraid to be afraid. Let's use that imagination.

And right now, you tell me to the best of your ability, what is the worst possible thing that could happen to you? What is the most fearful thing you could imagine in your life?

*Somehow some inkling that I have is that I will be more powerful than I think I will be able to handle.*

**Ah, now will you answer a question for me?**

*I'll try.*

**Oh, you don't have to try. How is it possible for a cup to hold more water than it is designed to hold?**

*Well, it can't. Whatever is extra will run over.*

**Yes. Therefore, the cup only need be concerned about the amount of water in the cup to know that it is serving its function. Yes. All the other water will spill into some other cup or go somewhere that doesn't concern this cup. Correct. You are designed the same way. There is no such thing as ever being given something that is more powerful than you can handle.**

So it is not possible. It is not possible to not be able to handle all the power that you discover you contain because if you have discovered it then by definition you are obviously ready to handle it or you still wouldn't be aware of it. Things do not happen accidentally. There are no pointless realities, no pointless timings, no pointless creations in existence. If you become aware that you have a certain ability, your awareness in and of itself means you are ready to handle it.

Now, we understand that very often some of you will involve a process wherein you will then get used to handling it. But it means that if you're aware of it, you can start with the assumption that you are obviously on some level capable of handling whatever degree of that power will in a sense be released by you. And you do not have to worry that you can't handle it. That is really not possible. The only thing, the only thing that makes it seem as if any empowerment you feel wouldn't be able to be handled by you is the belief itself that it might not be able to be handled. There is nothing inherent in the power itself that is incapable of being handled by you. Only the belief that you can't handle it makes it so you can't handle it. Do you understand?

*Yes, I do.*

**Is this helping to clear the issue up so far? Do you feel that this is making a change within you a little bit?**

*And I seem to have known that already.*

**But have you put it into practice? Remember that we said the idea, the process of becoming the higher self is to act like the higher self.**

*I have been doing that more and more recently.*

**But you can do it even more, can't you?**

*Yes. And it particularly relates to my relationship. My special relationship.*

**Oh, now we are getting down to specifics. What special relationship are you talking about?**

*It's with my husband of almost 29 years.*

**All right. And what about it?**

*It's good. And I feel that it could be more. I feel some block or something even though there...*

**Blocking you from what?**

*From experiencing a really full, exciting, loving interaction.*

**Do you feel that you experience a really full, exciting, loving interaction with yourself?**

*I'm beginning to more and more.*

**As soon as you begin experiencing that with yourself, it will leak out into everything you experience in your reality. You understand?**

*Yes.*

**What is it that prevents you from fully loving yourself? Deal with yourself first. Anything you wish to see change in your reality, all you need to do is change yourself and you will see it reflected.**

*And I know this intellectually.*

**Yes, intellectually. But you see this is exactly the point. You have a habit in your society of saying that knowing it intellectually and knowing it on any other level is a different thing. That belief in and of itself, that definition in and of itself, keeps you from knowing that you know it on all levels. In fact, keeps you thinking of yourself in terms of levels at all. If you know it, you know it. And if you really know it, you act like you know it. If you don't act like you know it, you don't really know it.**

That's the intention and the action together. You desire to know it. When you say I know it intellectually, what you are saying is I desire to know it, but I'm afraid.

*Yes, exactly what I...*

**All right. So, you don't really know it yet because if you did, we would not be having this conversation.**

The idea is to know it through what you do, through the actions, through the attitudes, through the language that you use to communicate with yourself.

First of all, now I'll go back to a fundamental. I trust none of you are tired of this question yet.

*Are you doing what excites you the most in life?*

**Yes.**

*Sometimes or no?*

**Sometimes. All right. Why not all the time?**

*I seem to evolve rather gradually and in a slow spiral.*

**Moving in your life slowly does not mean you cannot be doing at any given moment the thing that excites you the most in that moment. So do not use the desire to pace yourself as an excuse to not do what excites you.**

There is absolutely no reason why you cannot experience joy and peace at every moment of your life. No matter how fast or slow you want to learn something. You understand?

*Yes.*

**No reason at all why you should deprive yourself of feeling absolutely fulfilled even in the middle of a process. If you understand that the process is the thing itself, then you will not create an impatience with where you are now. Assuming that where you're going is somehow better than where you are.**

Being in the moment with where you are fully is exactly the only way to be anywhere else. Because if you don't use what you have, then you don't make room for what you want. You have to live completely with what you are and love completely who you are, no matter what your process is, before you can change into what you desire to be.

So the blockages you may be experiencing may simply be your assumptions, old beliefs, old habits about how you relate to yourself in the moment and what you're going through.

You need to learn to look at things in a different way and respond. Now pay attention, pay attention, pay attention. Very important distinction. Very important distinction. And this can go for many of you. You need to learn the difference between responding to something and reacting to something.

Response is positive. Reaction is negative. You need to learn to respond to your reality, not react to your reality.

Do you understand?

*Yes, that does connect with what I've been experiencing.*

**Yes. Response is simply the willingness to believe that everything that happens in your life happens for a reason and to approach it that way and to give it that meaning whether you intellectually understand how that could be so or not. But to trust that it is so and thus act as it is so. When you act as if it is so, you will get the reality that shows you it is so.**

Do you understand the three laws?

*Don't remind me.*

**All right. There are only three laws in creation. Only three. One, you exist. Two, the one is all. The all is one. Three. What you put out is what you get back. Every reality, everywhere, every when, everyone, every experience is based on those three laws. No more, no less.**

So the idea is to learn that if you respond to a situation, what you are putting out is the vibration that says I trust that this situation belongs in my reality, that I am the co-creator of this situation, that I will learn the thing that will help me the best in this situation, that I know it is there for a positive reason and I will act as such.

Whereas if you react to a situation, you are saying this has nothing to do with me. Why is this here now? I am patient to get out of this. I don't understand why this is here. I'm afraid to look at it. I'm denying denying denying denying that this has anything to do with anything I should know at this particular moment. I just want to get away from it and get on to something else. Then you are not using your life. You're not living your life. You're not living in the now, which is the only place you exist. If you don't live in the only place you exist, you have no power to do anything.

You have to be where you are to exercise your power because here and now is your point of power. It's where you are. If you're over there, you can't affect your life. You have to be now here and now. And being here and now means knowing, knowing, knowing that whatever happens is happening so that you can decide what will happen next and therefore it can always be looked at as a positive thing. You understand?

*Thank you. Yes. It's becoming clearer to me.*

**Yes. Ask your guides for assistance as well. They will help you in your dreams to help clear out some of these path issues that hold you back.**

*All right. Yes, I shall.*

**Does this help you?**

*Thank you, Bashar. It does help me. Thank you very much for your share.*

**Thank you.**

---

### SHARING TWO: Health, Chronic Fatigue, and Letting Go of Struggle

**Next sharing.**

*Good day, Bashar. My name is Nancy. How are you?*

**I know this is the first time for either one of us, but I have the feeling that it has happened before.**

*In other ways it has.*

*I have been dealing with a great change in my life and I would like to see a positive outcome.*

**All right, then give it a positive meaning.**

*The more I seem to work toward giving it a positive meaning, the tireder physically I get until I have put myself...*

**The more you work toward giving it a positive meaning, the tireder you will be. But if you just give it one, you'll be fine.**

Now again remember I said—not meaning to interrupt you—that you don't have to intellectually understand all the time why something is positive. You just need to know that it is and act as if you know that it is and eventually maybe you will see intellectually that it is, and maybe not. You don't always have to know.

For example, if you are driving along in your automobile and you are in traffic and all of a sudden the traffic backs up and you are in your traffic jam and you say, "Oh no, this is horrible. This is bad." Well, you don't necessarily know that being in the traffic jam prevented you from being somewhere where later on if you had been there, you might have been in an accident.

The point is to simply trust that if you have done the best you can, if you know you're doing the best you can, if you are as aware as you can possibly be of what your issues are, and you are willing and open to allow those things to change in your life in positive ways, then if something happens that in the old way would still have been defined as negative, you must trust that it is no longer that way. That even though it may look like something you would have defined as negative in the past, you must now simply know this cannot possibly be a negative thing anymore. It just can't be that way. Why? Because I say so.

And after you say so, if it comes back again and again and again, then you are testing yourself to see if you really believe it. Because the point is it will keep coming back as long as you keep reacting to it the same way.

*And it's like a vicious circle and I want to break the chain.*

**Yes. So instead of reacting, you must respond. Now if you wish, if you are willing, let's discuss the specifics of the issue and see how this principle might apply to your specific needs. So continue with details if you wish. What is the specific scenario you wish would change but doesn't seem to be changing?**

*My health, which is I'm tired. I have chronic fatigue syndrome.*

**Okay.**

*I have a lowered immunity and I knew though this is connected with my mind, my higher self, my spirituality, my physicality. It's all combined. And I feel that the fatigue that I'm experiencing physically, the symptoms that I get, yes, are brought about by lowering my immunity, I am because I've under so much stress mentally that it becomes such a vicious circle that I'm just swimming upstream and not getting anywhere.*

**All right. All right. Well, let go and let yourself float downstream. Why do you think you have to go upstream?**

*Somebody pointed me in that direction sometime.*

**Yes. Who?**

*My father.*

**Yes. Why?**

*He always felt I should be doing something and floating is not doing something. You must swim.*

**Tiring, isn't it?**

*Very extremely.*

**All right. You as a non-physical being basically laid out the general direction and definition and destiny and theme of your life before you became physical. This is not to say you do not have free will about how you go about playing that theme out. As a physical being, you do have free choice as to how to experience that general theme you laid out as the higher self before you were physical.**

But you see, the point is is that destiny is like a stream and the stream knows where it's going. And the point is, if you don't float along with it, you will never arrive at the places you really need to arrive at to get done what you really need to get done. If you fight that flow, you are actually really fighting your natural self.

You see the dichotomy, the paradox, the contradiction that exists in your society's ethic is that it doesn't understand how to know it is doing something unless it feels that it is struggling to do something. When you are really going with the flow and really getting the real things done, it doesn't feel like you're doing anything. That's the point.

Life is effortless. And when life is effortless, it doesn't mean you're lazy. It doesn't mean you're not doing anything. Well, it could mean those things, but in fact, if you really are being lazy and you're really procrastinating and really not facing the issues, life is still not effortless, not truly effortless. It is simply an avoidance and that eventually will come back to well haunt you.

But the point is life is truly effortless when you go with the flow and don't struggle. You then really get done what you need to get done.

*I don't know what I need to get done.*

**We'll get to that. Okay, for now we are simply talking about the actual technique and allowing you to reverse your course in the stream of your life instead of believing and continuing to buy into the tiring belief that you have to fight that flow. For all you're doing is resisting your natural self and that will break you down. That will lower your resistance. That's exactly what has happened.**

*Too much stress.*

**Now I am suggesting to you that it is completely all right to give yourself permission right now to let go and to know that if you let go, that is actually taking true control because then you are aligning with the path laid out by your higher self and it will feel like an effortless flow that will take you exactly to the places in the river that you need to be taken to do what you need to do and you will generally see what they are when you allow yourself to get there.**

The first step is to allow yourself to begin to use whatever condition you're in in a positive way. So reverse your attitude and reverse your understanding of the condition you are in. Look at it from your positive imagination so that it will change.

Ask yourself, what positive things can I do in the condition I'm in right now? What does being in the condition I'm in allow me to do as I am that perhaps I would not be able to do if I were in some other condition? What does being the way you are allow you to do positively?

*It's allowed me to educate myself much as you talked about your own interest in channeling and how you were led that way and I feel that since I have been so fatigued and am been at home and in bed and unable to do the things that I usually do, yes, that it has given me the opportunity to explore other avenues and paths and the more that I follow, the more synchronicity comes into it, the more I realize what's going on.*

**Yes. And I don't really know where I'm going, but I'm having a better time getting there.**

*You don't need to know where it is. You must understand something very important. The structure is created as you move along, not before you get there. Very important because this is what your father kept telling you. Plan, create that structure, follow the path, follow the rules, make that structure, and stick to it.*

When you move in a natural way, you create the structure in the moment as you go spontaneously. No effort. You become the structure itself. Yes. Again, there is that very general path laid out by your higher self. Not very much structure to it. Not very much at all. Very free flowing just like a river.

As you allow yourself to flow with it, you are the structure at any given moment through which the flow of the river crystallizes itself into the expression you desire to be. You are not attempting to crystallize or freeze the river before you get there. It flows through you.

Remember life does not happen to you. It happens through you. You are the valve, the gate, the door through which you express your higher aspirations. You determine at any given moment in the moment what the structure of your life is based on who you prefer to be at that moment. And at that moment when you make a choice, the structure that is the result of what you choose will automatically bring to you the things that you need by being that person because you will have structured your life to bring you those things in that moment. And when you change, you change the whole structure, the entire structure.

So this idea of attempting to follow a rigid structure that never changes is defeating you, is wearing you down, is forcing you into a mold that is not your natural self.

In your mind right now, see that heavy steel structure laid out before you from now until the end of your life. See it. See its confining nature. And now see that structure blown to smithereens.

*Yeah.*

**You are free to be who you are. Free to be who you are. Free to be who you are. Let it go.**

And whatever gives you joy in the moment, follow it. Follow the flow. It will not be tiring if you follow the flow and let the structure go. The structure that needs to be there at any given moment will be there. And it will not be one stick more than needs to be there at that moment. And I guarantee it will not be one stick less. It will be precise.

How do you feel about music, by the way?

*Oh, it's very important to me.*

**Yes. Well, you know that when you play certain pieces, the notes are exactly where they need to be. Yes. In a sense, you are following a kind of path. Yes, in a sense, but it isn't really realized. It isn't really there until you play it. It's just a suggestion. It's just an idea. But the point is it's also exactly precisely what it needs to be. Not one note more and not one note less.**

You know when you hit the right chord. That's all you need to know at any given moment when you play. What is the right chord at that moment? And in a sense, you don't even really need to know that. You need to be the piece.

If you wish to turn this around, you could say that you actually can allow yourself to be the structure and just flow as the structure rather than feeling like you are in the structure. Be the structure and then you can change whatever you want to change because you are the structure. You understand?

*Yes.*

**Do you feel a little bit lighter?**

*Oh, I'm lightening up in a lot of ways these days.*

**Yes. What about right now?**

*Yes. I have a question about the third law.*

**Yes.**

*And giving getting back what you put out.*

**What you put out.**

*Yes. And intention and service.*

**Yes.**

*And I feel that I have put out the very best I had in me with the best of intentions.*

**Yes.**

*And I got nothing positive in return.*

**So again, you must rearrange the way you understand this. First of all, remember this. If your fear is stronger than your intention, then it is your fear that's creating the reality. It is the strongest vibration you put out that creates the reality. No matter what your intention is, if your fear is stronger, that's what's creating the reality. You understand?**

*Yes.*

**So if you are trying really hard, then it's because you don't believe it's easy. And therefore, trying really hard says it must be difficult. So give that back to me because that's what I'm putting out. And that's what you're getting. And in a sense, therefore, that's very positive because you are getting precisely back what you have really been putting out, which then makes it easier for you to really know what you've really been putting out as opposed to what you think you're putting out.**

*That's the one that gets me.*

**But you see, that's what makes it easy because when you're honest with yourself and you realize, wait a minute, wait a minute. If I am getting what I perceive to be a difficult time, then I am putting out the belief in difficulty, not what I think I'm putting out. I'm putting out the belief in difficulty.**

And if you really, like I said, just pay attention to yourself, you will hear how very easily you are doing that. Because someone who believes they have to really try really hard to have a good life is saying they don't believe that a good life is easy. And that's the real belief. Therefore, that's the reflection.

But again, at any moment, in every moment, if you change the definition of what you do get back from the negative to the positive and continue to act that way, you will get a positive effect from it.

Would you like another example that may help ground this for you?

*Yes, please.*

**All right. This is taken and some of you may have heard this story from an actual incident that occurred to one of your people on your planet and it illustrates the point perfectly. This was told to us by one of your own.**

This individual had a great excitement, a great excitement to buy what you call a very expensive stereo system for his automobile. Very excited about it because this person loved music and knew that this system would give the best sound, was very excited about it but could not afford it.

So this individual knowing the principles we were talking about about doing the best you can, picking the thing that excites you the most and acting on that to the best of your ability chose the next most exciting thing he was capable of purchasing, the next most exciting system. Put that in his car, drove around very happy, but still knew that it was the more expensive system that was the most exciting thing, but also knew couldn't do anything immediately about it. Therefore, did not judge what he did to be any less. Just did it because it was the next most exciting thing he was capable of doing.

A week later, stereo was stolen out of the automobile.

This person now has an opportunity. Choice number one, this is a terrible thing. I am giving this a negative meaning. Choice number two, I don't know how this is a positive thing. But since I know I've only chosen to give positive meaning to the things that happen in my life, no matter what anyone else's intentions are toward me, then I know that by giving this a positive meaning, I will only get a positive effect out of it. Choice number two is what he took and therefore went through the process that exists on your planet of filing the claim and was given by the insurance company an amount of money equal to the old stereo system that was stolen and an amount of money equal to the estimate for the damage repair.

This individual still trusting that everything was positive went to the damage repair place and happened to pick one that took one look at the damage and said you know it may look bad but it's really quite simple to fix. They fixed it instantly at no charge.

Now he's standing there with enough money to buy the old system and the money he was supposed to use for the repairs, which of course collectively then was enough to buy the system he originally wanted to begin with.

That's how you create a positive effect out of a situation that could have had a negative effect if the person had chosen to believe and react to it in a negative way instead of to believe and respond in a positive way. Because if he had chosen the negative path, he probably would have attracted himself to someone who would have repaired the car and taken the money anyway.

But because he chose the positive, his sights were open, his attractions were open to joining him up synchronistically to exactly what he needed to know that the theft actually served him. Even if it was the other person's intention to be negative, the theft actually served him because he only chose to know that the things that happen in his life, no matter what anyone else's intentions are, are there for a positive reason, whether he understands it intellectually or not.

That's how life works when you let it. That's how life works. When you assign a positive meaning to the things that occur. Do you understand?

*Yes, I do. Thank you. Thank you very much.*

---

### SHARING THREE: Accepting What Is vs. Denying It

**Next, sharing.**

*Hello.*

**And good day to you.**

*My questions will probably follow very much the women that preceded me.*

**Is there some specific way you wish to bend this idea into your particular specific light?**

*Perhaps one thing that I'm having trouble with... It seems to me that if I live totally in the moment, or if if I had a if I didn't fight the way my present is now that that would not be acceptable.*

**Well, maybe there's some confusion in the terminology. The idea of accepting what is going on in your life now doesn't mean that you have to prefer it. That's not what I am saying. What I'm saying is that however, if you accept it for what it is, accepting it for what it is teaches you how to change it into what you prefer, whereas denying what is in your life does not give you the ability to change it into what you prefer.**

Because you see, you can only use the energy that's in your life to create something else. You're 100% energy. The things that you have in life that you don't prefer, you don't get rid of them and replace them with something else. Literally, you have to change that thing into what you prefer. So, if you don't cherish and use it for what it is, you won't find out how to use it and transform it into what you want it to be. That's what we are saying.

Most people deny the idea that what's going on in their life has anything to do with them. They just run from it. They don't understand that it's their co-creation. They don't own it. And if you don't own it, you can't change it. You can't change what you don't own.

So the idea is not that you have to accept it in the sense of living with it. The idea is that you have to accept that it is your creation and let it reflect to you what it is you believe because you know that your beliefs create your reality. And if you don't prefer what you believe, then decide what belief you would rather have. And in changing that belief, you will then change that scenario into what you prefer. But what's there shows you what you already are so that you can change it if you don't like it.

Does that make the idea a little bit clearer?

*Yes. I'd like to ask you one other question relating to this though. I mean what I'm specifically I'm dealing with like AIDS and I'm thinking that I accept the fact that it's my creation.*

**Yes.**

*But there's also like a very strong thing that I don't want it to be part of my creation anymore. And yet I seem to feel that I spend a great deal of energy like trying to get rid of it. Not trying to learn from it or you know but just to plain old get rid of it and that's like the goal.*

**That's the paradox.**

*I'm not sure that you know that my trying to get I mean I don't know you know I'm still told that I have it. I you know I'm still feeling...*

**There is now a parallel going on in the physical reality of the channel to help in the timing of assisting you with this. And now it is understood within the consciousness of the channel why this timing has occurred in this way.**

The idea of that which is artificial being extracted from the body. The idea that you are aligning with your natural self. And in the aligning of your natural self, that there will be things that have been imposed upon you that are not of you. And that these things that are not of you will make it seem while you are extracting them from yourself that everything is coming apart.

But there is a new integration taking place wherein only that which is your natural self will be left at the core. And when you arrive at that core of your natural self, all the things that you have bonded to yourself will then be seen to be extraneous.

But these things now in having formed such a shell, having become such a part of your overall personality must begin to break down. This breakdown in general is what this whole idea of AIDS in your society is representative of in that you have taken upon yourselves many negative belief systems and built them up around yourselves as a barrier similar to the idea of the barrier that is presented by your immunological system. And as this barrier of your old negative beliefs breaks down, so too does the representative corresponding barrier of your immunological system because it has contained for many thousands of years ideas and beliefs which do not serve you. It has been used in that sense to keep things from you as a society.

This breakdown is a stripping away of all those things that are artificial to your natural self, to your natural core. If you can learn to go back to the natural core, be the natural self and be in that centered state which is only that which is truly you, you can then allow all the things which are attempting to break away from you and all the things which are breaking down in you to break down without affecting the real you, to go their way, to dissolve, to disperse, to disseminate without affecting the core of you. And the core of you can come back and expand and grow strong. But you must arrive at that core.

This timing of the idea of allowing things to drop away that are not part of the natural you is also reflected in the timing. Now reflected to you physiologically by the channel's body. And that you being the one that we are conversing with now will have allowed the timing to be absolutely perfect for the seeing of the breaking away of artificial things as represented now by that which is in the channel's mouth. Do you see?

*Yes.*

**This will be repaired. But the idea is that the timing was for a reflection of you. The timing was for a reflection of allowing you to understand that this is the time in your whole society when it is time to allow the artificial things, the artificial beliefs, the things that are really not part of your natural self to drop away.**

And if you do this in joy, if you do this in trust, if you do this in faith, your core will be left and your core will expand. It is only the fear that allows this artificial barrier to eat away at the core and to allow the core to go along with it.

Oxygen is the key. Oxygen and life and breath is the key to the core of your being in physical reality. If you will learn to oxygenate your system through breath of life, through yogic practices and/or also the oxygenation of your body through systems now recognized as a substance of hydrogen peroxide in proper formulation, you will energize and oxygenate your cellular structure. You will allow your core to derive the sustenance that it needs to allow the rest to drop away that does not need to be there. This is one thing you could do. It will be up to you and it will depend upon exactly how much you can allow yourself to align with the true core of your being.

But you must understand at the same time you are fulfilling an obligation and a purpose to your society. You are fulfilling a reflection to them to allow them to face things and issues that they have not faced within themselves. You are reflection of many of the fears that your society has about the blending of energies and polarities within themselves that they have been afraid to blend. You are reflection of many of the barriers that they have imposed upon themselves that they now no longer need. And you are performing a service in this sense.

Allow the artificiality to go. Allow the artificiality to go. You will rebuild the structure in a new way and it will be more representative of your natural self. You must trust the timing. You must trust the timing and you must be at your center.

Do not worry. You really have not bitten off more than you can chew.

Now, you will receive help with this. You'll receive assistance but you must have faith and you must go to the center of yourself and you must go to the center of life itself which is breath. The secret is in the breath, is in oxygen itself.

This is all we can help you with this day. There are others who will assist you.

*Thank you very much.*

**Our unconditional love to you. Our unconditional joy.**

*Thank you. And mine to you.*

---

### SHARING FOUR: Not Used to Being Where You Are

**Good day to you, Bashar.**

*Good day to you.*

*I'm feeling a little overwhelmed as I'm starting from a point probably behind many of the people that are here.*

**Oh, come come come. Everyone is exactly where they need to be in perfect timing. Do not fear. If you have come now and listen to this information now, this is exactly the perfect timing for you. You are not behind. You are not ahead. You are exactly perfectly where you need to be.**

*Okay. I guess possibly I'm thinking that I'm not used to being where I am at the moment. And so this is new for me.*

**Yes, that is true of many of you. You are not used to being where you are. That is what we have been discussing.**

*Well, living in the now.*

**Maybe I'm here more than I need to be. Huh. We shall see. What is it you wish to discuss?**

*I think I'd like to discuss opening up of communication because I think I have a need in that respect that I'm too confining to the old rules.*

**And which old rules are those?**

*Not being open and honest with yourself and with others.*

**Both. And are there particular areas in which this takes place or in general in your life?**

*Possibly in general, but I think that there with one specific person more so.*

**And what is it you fear will happen if you are in fact honest?**

*I think that's part of my problem. I don't give it any thought at all. I seem to just go along and so I don't work at it very well I guess.*

**Are you then saying that it is not so much an issue that you are delivering falsehoods or keeping information back but simply that you wish more communication in general?**

*I think I have a tendency to keep some communication back and that I would like also to have more communication in general.*

**What is it that you feel you must keep back? Can you give an example?**

*I guess basically just not telling everything, not being perfectly honest. In other words, that's the only thing I can think of.*

**Are you afraid that you can't figure out a way to say it that will not hurt the other person?**

*I think that has something to do with it.*

**All right. Remember that the idea of being absolutely perfectly honest does not necessarily mean that you have to say absolutely everything when you know that it might have a negative impact on them. That is not necessarily being dishonest. However, your actions can balance this out by always being willing to be there for someone to help them learn what they need to learn, even if you don't necessarily communicate everything you're thinking about them.**

And of course, you must remember that very often the things that you may be thinking about someone are just your perspective and your point of view and isn't necessarily true for them, but may be actually truer for you.

*That makes sense.*

**That is why it isn't always necessary to say what you may want to say to someone else because the message may actually be stronger for you than for them. But it is in your actions of support that you communicate. Remember this. This is very important especially in this day and age in your planetary society now.**

Words—while it would be nice if they aligned with your intentions—very rarely do. Therefore, the only communication that exists in your society at this time is the actions that you do.

So if what you do is supportive, if what you do lets them know that you are a friend, if what you do lets them know that you care for them and that you desire for them to be as happy as they possibly can be in life, that is more important than what you ever might say or not say in general terms.

Now, if you are in a specific situation where you know you are holding back communications about yourself that it would be wise to tell them so they can understand who you are, then that might involve issues of you not really being in touch with who you are or not being comfortable with who you are or not allowing yourself to really want to be fully in the relationship by not allowing them to know who you are.

There may be other issues involved in specific dialogues that are then connected to the idea of holding information back and that may be a completely different issue. You follow along?

*Yes, I do.*

**All right. You must remember in general your actions will be the true communication. It will usually let people really know who they're dealing with because then if they wish to be in a relationship with you, they will be in a relationship with the real you.**

And most of the problems in specific dialogues—speaking now—most of the problems that happen in relationships usually come from what is not said rather than from what is said. If what is not said is not said out of fear, is not said because you do not want to reveal who you really are. If what is not said is not said because you really are afraid to go fully into the relationship, then what is not said becomes a problem.

But if it is just general ideas, general beliefs, general judgments and attitudes about other people that you don't share with them but do in fact give them the communication of your actions and your actions say you support them, then in that sense you don't necessarily have to say everything. It's what you do that counts.

Is this helping to clarify the issue at all?

*Yes, it is.*

**Is there any other aspect of this you wish to discuss?**

*No, but I thank you for that which you have helped me with.*

**I thank you very much for your willingness to create this discussion with us. And again remember you will always—if you are willing—attract what you need and always, always, always you can remember if you ever do hesitate to believe that you are worth knowing, then simply remember that if you weren't worth knowing fully, you wouldn't exist.**

*Thank you very much.*

**Thank you.**

---

### SHARING FIVE: UFO Experiences and Self-Belief

**Hello, Bashar.**

*Good day to you.*

*I wanted to share something that has happened to me in the past and maybe you could tell me if it really did happen or I don't know.*

*Between the ages of like 12 and 16, I had one actual conscious UFO sighting and the rest I used to sleep in my backyard a lot and I had a lot of dreams.*

**Oh, you made it easy for them, did you?**

*I guess so.*

**And they appreciated it.**

*I was well I would wake up and think well did this happen or didn't it happen? I didn't know.*

**Understand that many of these kinds of interactions are real on physical and on astral levels. Sometimes just because it happens on an etheric level doesn't mean it's not real. You have to redefine what you understand etheric and astral to be. They are real. And very often just because it happens on an astral level doesn't mean it isn't real. But it may not have always occurred on a physical level, but sometimes it happens.**

*So all these the dreams that I used to have about flying and being in crafts...*

**Those are usually the way your mind can best remember some form of actual encounter and exchange of communication and dialogue and experience.**

*Yes.*

**Do you think that there was a purpose?**

*Always. Do you know?*

**What a question to ask me. That's true. A reality check. Of course, there was and still is purposes on both sides. How does it serve you? Then you can answer the purpose on your side. How does it serve you?**

*Just to become a better person and to do the things that I want to do in my life.*

**It doesn't sound like you're saying that with much enthusiasm.**

*Because I'm afraid of not being able to do it.*

**Really? What would stop you?**

*I don't know myself.*

**And why would you do that?**

*I'm not sure.*

**You're not sure. Well, I'll tell you what. Would you make a deal with me?**

*Okay.*

**You don't have to. You don't have to. No, I don't want to force you into anything. If it is distasteful to you, you don't have to promise me anything. However, if you are willing, what you can do is this. If you're not sure why you would stop yourself, then just assume you never will until you finally come to an absolute situation where it is obvious that you are stopping yourself. And if you are, ask yourself why. Okay? But until such time as you actually have a real reason for seeing in no uncertain terms that you are in fact blocking yourself, then assume that you never will. Because if you don't have a reason to stop yourself, you won't.**

*Okay.*

**Did you just sigh?**

*Mhm. Well, that's a relief.*

**That's a letting go. Do you have a particular thing you would like to do that you are not doing?**

*Lose weight.*

**Well, I'm doing it very slowly, but it's taking a while.**

*I beg your pardon.*

**It's taking a while.**

*All right. Now, say it this way. I prefer to lose weight.*

**I prefer to lose weight.**

*No. No. No. If you were auditioning for my play, I wouldn't have given you the part. Repeat after me. I prefer to lose weight.*

*I prefer to lose weight.*

**I prefer to lose weight.**

*I prefer to lose weight.*

**I prefer to lose. Wait, no, I don't.**

*Catching on. Catching on.*

**And it's taking a long time.**

*Say it. And it's taking a long time.*

**And it's taking a long time.**

*And it's taking a long time.*

**What element in the channel's voice is missing from yours?**

*I prefer to lose weight and it's taking a long time.*

**Enthusiasm and pride. Pride.**

*Yes.*

**Be proud of who you are, no matter who you are. You understand?**

*Mhm.*

**Do the things you really prefer to do, to the best of your ability as you can do them now. You do not have to wait until you lose weight before you do the things you can do now. Start doing them now. And you will lose the weight.**

*All right. Mhm. Thank you very much.*

**Does this help you?**

*Yes, it does.*

**Thank you.**

---

### SHARING SIX: Health Challenges and Following Excitement

**Good afternoon Bashar.**

*And good day to you.*

*This is our first meeting. I am very delighted to be here and I am very very very very very very very happy as well.*

**Thank you. I have a question.**

*Oh all right.*

**I've just launched a new project that I'm very excited about.**

*Oh right.*

**But I have a slight problem.**

*But but but...*

**Yes, I have a health challenge that I am experiencing presently.**

*All right. Of what nature?*

**Well, I have diabetes.**

*All right.*

**And I also have retinopathy which is a breaking of the blood vessels in the back of the eyeball.**

*For how long have you created this condition?*

**I guess about a year or so.**

*And the former condition—still diabetes.*

**Yes. For how long?**

*Since I don't even remember I guess in the early 80s.*

**Always. What is the project you have launched?**

*Uh a new financial project meaning that the end result I should become financially secure.*

**What is the project?**

*Well, I haven't really got into it yet. I'm just starting it.*

**Then how is it you have launched it?**

*Well, I have gathered some information about it.*

**Yay. All right.**

*And I have begun to work on it slightly.*

**Slightly. Yes. All right.**

*But I'm very enthusiastic about it.*

**All right. You have a slight enthusiasm.**

*Well, the thing about it is that I guess I have a little fear and a little guilt.*

**All right. Slight enthusiasm, little fear, little guilt.**

*Yes. Because I think or my feeling is that this physical challenge is going to impede my total progress in this project because I'm not going to be able to see very well physically.*

**Are you saying that there is some particular aspect about this project that entails you to have to use your physical vision?**

*Yes.*

**Well, then what is that?**

*Well, first of all, I want to become an investor.*

**Yes.**

*And I need my eyes to see what I want to invest.*

**Investment requires a completely different kind of vision.**

*Yeah, that is true.*

**So, scratch that one.**

*All right. Um, what else do you need to see for?*

**Well, right now I'm teaching and I certainly needed to see teaching... how to teach... I need to see in order to do my job because I am an English teacher.**

*So you speak English very well.*

**Thank you.**

*What do you need to see?*

**I need to see how to grade papers.**

*You do?*

**Yes.**

*Why?*

**I never thought that I could grade them without seeing them.**

*Well, think about it. I am not saying that you will lose your physical sight, but this gives you an opportunity to consider how many things you can do if you did. And it is changing your perspective on things. And when you change your perspective on things, you may be able to regain your physical sight. But not until you change your perspective.*

*Okay?*

**Not until I change my perspective.**

*All these things are tied in. There is no accident in the symbolic uses of all these words of perspective and vision and sight.*

**Right? Now I...**

*Use your imagination.*

**Can you now imagine grading? If grading is necessary at all.**

*I wish it wasn't.*

**You would like to transform it.**

*All right, transform it.*

**Then do so. Then you won't have to worry about seeing anything.**

*Well, that's...*

**This is not meant to be flippant.**

*No.*

**If you want to change it, change it. Come up with an alternate system.**

*Well, have you already pondered what an alternate system could be?*

**No, I have not given...**

*Well, ponder it. Ponder, ponder, ponder, ponder, ponder.*

**Is that idea a part of the so-called project?**

*Not really.*

**What is the so-called project?**

*Well, my so-called project is like I said, I want to work on becoming financially secure, which is really a part I mean it's not a part of what I'm doing now.*

**What is the project?**

*Well, the project is I want to work in real estate.*

**Are you excited about real estate?**

*Yeah, I'm very excited about it.*

**You are?**

*Yes.*

**All right. Then work in real estate because you are excited about being in real estate, not because it has some particular end goal to it. If you focus on the idea that you are in real estate simply to make the money, you will probably not do very well. If however you are in real estate because that's what you love to do, you will probably be rich quickly because people will see that you believe in what you're doing. You understand?**

*I think so.*

**You think so?**

*Yes.*

**Do you see? So, I'm working on the fight too. This is a very simple thing to understand. Yes. The point is that you need to do what you love to do because you love to do it and that's what brings you the abundance.**

*Oh, yes.*

**Yes. If you're doing it because of the abundance itself, then you will not be able to do that thing very well and paradoxically you will sabotage yourself.**

*Right.*

**Do it because it's what you love to do. Yes. Then you will be rewarded in that sense because what you put out is what you get back.**

*Exactly.*

**And so then that would...**

*And that's one thing you can do aside from also coming up with alternatives to the system that you say you don't prefer.*

**Right?**

*That's another thing you could be doing. Yes, it's up to you to follow your excitement, but follow it in all the directions you have the capability of doing something about. And do not assume that you are in any way, shape, or form impeded. Because if at this point in your life when you have this particular condition is when you're considering doing these things, then obviously you are capable of doing these things even with your condition and in fact it is your condition that will probably allow you to do them in the way that would actually serve you better rather than assuming that you had to do them in the old way which probably wouldn't have worked for you at all.*

*I see.*

**I see.**

*Yes. Oh, it's a miracle. I see. I think that will help me an awful lot for sure. Thank you very much.*

**Thank you. Your laughter will also help you.**

*Thank you.*

---

*Now, one moment. One moment. One moment.*

**On a regular regimen, three times a day, 10 minutes each time at least. In a meditative state, imagine a very strong blue white electromagnetic light penetrating every single cell of your body, especially your eyes, especially your pancreas and especially your brain.**

Feel that blue white energy realigning, rebalancing, recrystallizing every component within you. Balancing, balancing, balancing, cooling, soothing, allowing you to become superconductive and drink plenty of water, purified water.

*All right. Thank you very much.*

**Thank you.**

---

### SHARING SEVEN: Asthma, Expansion, and Manifestation

**I'll just take it off. Hello, Bashar.**

*And to you.*

*I've had to spend energy all day balancing myself because I've been so excited about seeing being with you.*

**Seeing being all right.**

*In our excitement about being with you, we are balanced.*

**Yay.**

*Several things have gone through my mind to talk to you about and they may be related.*

**Oh, maybe—if they all went through your mind, they probably are.**

*What you said before about breathing may apply. I have a problem with asthma and I've been learning about what I can and its associations that it's associated with smothering with dust and other things and I'm medicated for it. I don't like taking medications and I'm wondering what this is really about and if I can somehow get rid of it. I want to be able to breathe. And it may have something to do with my feeling of being small, of being afraid of being small and other things.*

**It has to do with learning how to expand in general. Yes. Also perhaps learning a different way to breathe. Also perhaps feeling that the atmosphere in which you exist is not the natural atmosphere for you. But perhaps there is another kind of reality that is more conducive to supporting you.**

*That makes sense. What I envision myself doing is being outside a lot. Working outside. That's where I feel really good. And that's where my excitement takes me—is outside to an environment where I would camp and live rustically and do artwork and help people heal by helping them do artwork and be outside.*

**Then as you do those things, there is involved in that obviously a process of healing for you. Yes. Are you simply saying that you recognize that this is the direction of your excitement and you simply wish to accelerate this process or is there something else you feel you ought to be doing?**

*No, I think that's what I need to be doing. And I had an incident happen just a couple days ago that helped me to understand my power of manifestation and that you know that's expansion—you know that idea of expansion plays in there I think.*

**What images did you get in this experience?**

*Poverty because I envisioned myself living by water and I decided I would like to live on this particular street. I discovered a house was for sale on this street. Checked into it and found out it cost $116,000 and said, "Forget that because there's no way I can come into that much money."*

**My my—yes, you do need some expanding, don't you?**

*Yeah.*

**As you already know, you don't always need money. Abundance is the ability to do what you need to do when you need to do it. Period. Money is one of the ways you have of representing abundance on your planet, but it isn't the only way. And sometimes it's not the quickest way.**

You could have come up in your imagination with several possible ways of knowing that if that was really your house, then you would have acted as such and engaged those you need to engage in the kinds of dialogues that would explore the possibility of being able to acquire it in some other way. It is possible that you can do certain things to acquire a certain amount of money, but you may not need the entire amount. You may not need anything at all. Have you even discussed the idea of your interest in the house with the individuals who own it?

*No, I contacted the realtor that was advertised.*

**Yes.**

*And he's the one who told me how much it was and I just thanked him very much and said, "Well..."*

**What you could possibly do is sit down and write a letter, hand it to the realtor to give to the owner expressing your desire, your strong excitement about that house. Honestly expressing that right now you do not have the financial requirements. But there is something about that house that really tugs at you.**

Explore in your letter whether or not there might be ways that you could come to terms because I want you to understand something very important about deals. It isn't the amount. It's never the amount. It's the terms. That's what makes a difference. You can very often agree completely to the full amount that somebody wants, but how you pay them, that's another story. You could work out other terms that would be acceptable to both of you.

That's one way, one thing you could explore. Do not assume that they are as inflexible as your own beliefs. Open the dialogue. Explore. Ask them, "Are you willing to explore different terms? If I agree to your price, are you willing to explore different terms about how I can meet your price? Because I really want to. I really desire to give you what you want. Are you willing to work with me so that I can get what I want and then we can have what do you call it? A win-win situation."

Perhaps there might even be something you can exchange, a service you can provide that will even allow them to lower the price. Perhaps you can even suggest to them to go in on a business deal with you and put the house up as their part of the deal. Be creative is the point. And do not limit yourself in all the different ways you could arrange the deal. It's the terms of the deal, never the amount—the arrangements, the positioning, the ideas, the relationships, the interactions of the deal. That's where your imagination comes in. You understand?

*Yes. Yes, I do.*

**Go and play with that idea and see what you are inspired to do and see if that makes a difference and see where it leads you. And remember also very important—do not bring the baggage of expectation into the deal because very often your excitement will lure you in a certain direction not because you're supposed to complete that particular direction but just because you're supposed to be lured into the idea to a certain point. So do not bring the baggage of expectation that well if this doesn't complete then the whole thing was wrong. I did something wrong. I don't know what happened.**

Go into it as far as your excitement will allow you and trust that if your excitement changes, it changes for a reason. Flow with it. But do what you can right now to exercise what does excite you and open up the way in which you could imagine being in that house.

Make a list of suggestions of all the different ways it could happen. And then when you are done, set the list aside. Take a day, take two days, take three days, go back and add more to the list until you really have come up with all the possible ways you could wind up in that house.

They might be going away on a long trip and want somebody to take care of the house. They might be able to, as we said, join with you in a business venture. They might be able to simply accept your terms for payment that are something that you can work with.

Explore all the possible ways until you really know all the different aspects that are connected to that house which has lured you into your excitement. Then you will really be dealing with the situation. Until then, you haven't enough information to go on because you are not involved with the real possibilities of the situation. That's dynamics. You understand?

*Yes, I think I do. And you've helped me to understand why I said thank you very much and hung up because I think I'm exploring because there are other alternatives I have and other desires that I have and this is how it may feed into the asthma is that I've also learned that that has to do with a fear of growing up. Growing up for me involves responsibility. And when I thought of having the responsibility of that house, the yard, the debt, and all the rest of that, that may have kicked it away from me faster than anything else.*

**And it's also an issue of believing that you always come up short.**


