---
heading: Part 1
title: "The Interstellar Eanagram"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2014-09-27
icon: Bashar
weight: 796
showdate: true
---


### **Introduction: The Anagram Diagram and Hybrid Civilizations**

It represents of the vibrational permission slips that connect you to the various other civilizations that are a part of your experience on Earth.

These transmit to you information energy to allow you to tap into experiences in those Realms that are reflective of a lot of the genetic material within your own human form.

You contain that genetic material and so you can utilize that sensitivity that energetic vibrational resonance to tap into these different civilizations utilizing whatever permission slip you wish.


But also being able to utilize these symbols of the various civilizations—these vibrational phone numbers, if you will.

So let us continue by briefly reminding you that last night of your time, we spoke of the vibrational resonance of the bottom row of the anagram diagram you have in front of you, being the representation of the Anunnaki, the representation of the Orion civilization, the representation of the Gray Federation—which we covered last night of your time—generally representing the initiation and upgrading of your genetic material into a level that would allow you to contain all of these different genetic markers.

From the Anunnaki, the introduction into your society of the Orion transformational vibration that allowed for magnification of your ability to transform energies from negative to positive, from dark to light. The introduction of the Gray Federation vibration, being that which came from the parallel Earth reality to once again activate and alter genetic material, not only for the creation of hybrid civilizations such as my own, but also for the purpose of allowing you the opportunity to participate in a program and an agenda that will also allow your planet, your Earth, to go down a path that is more positive than the path the Gray civilization went down that caused them to mutate into their present form.

Now we will, this day of your time in this transmission, talk about our own civilization a bit—Essassani—and how it relates to you. That surrounds the symbol of Earth in the center of the anagram. Our symbol, our vibrational phone number, our resonance being symbolized by that black background, the black triangle with the blue light coming from behind it or the blue border as represented in this diagram. And on the right side of the Earth diagram in the center, that which represents in general the Yahyel—being the hybrid civilization that will have open contact with your civilization before all others.

Now beginning with us: we have again reminded you that we are the product of the Gray civilization, but we were of the five hybrid civilizations created third. So we are in the center of that agenda. We are representative of the balance point in a sense. And this is why it has fallen to us vibrationally and attracted us to you vibrationally to aid and assist in the dispensation of information that can create more balance within your own energy. And why many of our ships, such as my own being positioned above the area on your planet you call Sedona, Arizona, will connect vibrationally to different vortices around your world and aid and assist in the flow of energy through those vortices, through those gateways, those doorways, those energy portals to different dimensions, to help balance the energy on your world so that you can take full advantage of your ability to transform in what might be called a buffered environment—a safe environment that will allow you the freedom to choose which way to go, the freedom to explore your themes as you have chosen them in the most positive, the most balanced way possible.

Now again, there are many of us positioned above these vortices in different places on your planet, aiding and assisting with the balancing of the energy and the dissemination of this information that, when taken into your consciousness, when applied in your physical reality, will allow you to accelerate yourselves very specifically in a very similar vibrational direction that our society has taken—that has led us to the place that we are now in our evolution, where we are approaching the concept of and experiencing the concept of transmutation, transition from physical to non-physical reality.

At this point, we call ourselves quasi-physical beings. We can present ourselves in a physical way, and yet at the same time, we exhibit many of the qualities of the idea of spirit. As you now go from your transition from third density to fourth density physical reality, we are transitioning from fourth density physical reality to fifth density non-physical reality. But we are still at the balance point in the center. And this balancing act, this balancing energy that we are experiencing, is what allows us to deliver to you the same kind of balancing vibration, so that you can find yourselves in that neutral position, in the Trinity position between the duality—between the polarity, negative and positive, dark and light, limitation and freedom—and give yourself the opportunity, by being in that balance vibration, by matching the balancing frequency we are giving off through the channel's body, to neutralize all events in your life, to see the idea of situations and circumstances in a neutral observational way, to give you the opportunity to interject the meaning that you prefer into these situations and therefore extract the benefit from them that you desire, that you prefer, rather than experiencing what you have been experiencing for thousands of years on your planet, which is the automatic assumption of negativity in certain circumstances that then only allows you to experience the negative effect from them.

The idea of recognizing that we are the third hybrid race created tells you that by being in that balanced state, we can pave the way for the other hybrid races to interact with you in the appropriate order. Now the idea of the Yahyel, or in our ancient language the Shalona, which simply means "the first ones," will be that they were created last of the five hybrid races. And in being created last, in being the newest version to be created, they are more similar to your human beings than we are, and much more similar to your human beings than the first hybrid race is. So in that sense, that is why they will be the first ones you will meet—so as to buffer your experience of extraterrestrial contact with a civilization that has a lot of similarity to you, so it will not be too alien for you to assimilate the idea of interacting with them.

In time, you will meet the other hybrid races. We, again in the balanced position in the center point being the third hybrid race created, will be the third race that you will encounter of the hybrids.

Now as you can see on the right side of the center block, which is the Earth block being that of the black background and the blue square, the green square, the white square which represents your Earth vibrationally from our point of view, from our particular matrix, from our permission slip creation, you will notice the idea of the triangle within the circle that represents specifically the Yahyel.

Now there has been a little bit of confusion about the idea of this symbol. And many of you remember that when asked previously about the idea of the vibrational phone number or symbol for the Yahyel, we gave you a black background with a white pentagram and a green dot in the center. This is a symbol for the Yahyel, but it is the symbol of the Yahyel relative to the five hybrid races. Now we are giving you their specific vibrational phone number not connected to the idea of the five hybrid races.

In time, you will see in the anagram that is to the right that says "New Hybrids," this will mean, first and foremost, the idea of the symbol of the white pentagram with the green dot for them, but that is representative of their relationship to the other hybrid races as well.

And you will find that the next one will be represented by the black background, the white pentacle, the white pentagon if you wish, with a gold dot in the center. We, in the center, are represented by the white pentagon with the blue dot in the center. The second hybrid race to be created—the fourth that we are mentioning—will be represented by the white pentagon with the violet dot in the center. And the first hybrid race to be created, the ones that are more closely associated and more similar to the Grays, will be represented by the white pentagon with a black dot in the center.

Eventually, as the Earth becomes the sixth hybrid race, that will be represented vibrationally by a black background with a hexagon with a violet dot in the center. And as it evolves, that violet dot will turn into a six-pointed violet star. And as the sixth hybrid race reaches its pinnacle and blends with the other hybrid races in a specific way energetically, it will become what we have termed the seventh hybrid race, which will be represented by the visual symbol, the vibrational symbol, of a black background, a white hexagon, and a black six-pointed star in the center, which will be vibrationally representative of their connection to space-time itself and will result in a race of beings that will be very, very vibrationally powerfully connected to the very essence of space-time and will function in a way that no other race we are aware of has ever functioned before. That will take place in what you call the far future.

Nevertheless, right now, being that we are on one side of you vibrationally and the Yahyel are on the other side, we act to give vibrational stability in the center to the Earth plane, to the Earth experience, to the Earth vibration, so that the transformational experiences you are going through now, the discovery of more of yourselves that you are going through now, can be stabilized by our respective vibrations on either side of you—in a sense, walking hand in hand, arm in arm, three abreast, you being in the center in this way—and allowing you the opportunity to really open up to more of yourself, more experiences, more doorways, more portals to more things to come, while at the same time, by living more in the now, living more in the present, allowing yourself to also experience changing your past as well as your so-called future.

Because again, please remember, as each and every one of you becomes a different person from moment to moment to moment, you have not only the idea of a change in your so-called future, but as you become a different person, you have changed your history as well—your past as well—to represent the linear path that would have had to happen in order to create the person you are today, just looking at it from a linear perspective.

So our civilization and the Yahyel civilization are helping with your ability to stay focused in the center, neutralize everything, input the meaning that you prefer, and allow yourselves to begin to actually experience the shifting in a much more visceral way, in a much more conscious way, that you're going through all the time, so that you can more consciously and intentionally determine the direction of your flow through the billions of parallel versions of Earth that you go through every single second, so that you can make greater leaps, so to speak, greater differences, and begin to experience the rate at which you've always been shifting, but experience that more consciously and determine for yourselves the idea of the kind of reality experience that you prefer.

In addition to what we and the Yahyel are doing in that way, we are also representative, and they are also representative, of the hybrid children that have been created through this program, through this hybridization agenda of the creation of the five civilizations. And in that, we are all blending together—you, us, the Yahyel—for the purpose of propelling your civilization towards the transformation into the sixth hybrid race.

These hybrid children will eventually be brought down to Earth in ships, as we have said, living in enclaves that are safe on your planet, remote in a way that allow them to acclimate to your society as your society also simultaneously acclimates to them and begins to get used to the idea of the evolutionary transformation taking place upon your planet that will allow you to go down a path of creative joy and passion and ecstasy and transform you and unlock the genetics within you that you contain to all these different civilizations in a way that will allow you to become over time more and more expressive of the hybridization that exists within you from the very beginning.

Because when the Anunnaki interjected and introduced their genetic material into Homo erectus and created Homo sapiens, they already contained many different kinds of genetic strains that are within you all. So you're already hybridized to a great degree. But this is the time and this is the day and this is the age when the switches are being thrown—switches are being flipped genetically within you to allow you more ability to express the different vibrational frequencies in these different genetic matrices that exist within your makeup, so that you can truly align with those that are most representative of your potential, of your ability to experience reality as a dream in a way that makes it more flexible, more malleable, that allows you to really manifest more consciously, more intentionally, by allowing who you truly are to come to the forefront and taking your place between our civilization and the civilization of the Yahyel as the melting pot and the crucible in which the sixth hybrid race shall be formed, shall be created out of the essence of your beings.

And we thank you for your willingness to participate. We thank you for laying the foundation. We thank you for providing the material that will allow us all together to create an experience of ascension in ways that you can barely imagine at this time.

Your world, very quickly in years to come after open contact occurs with the Yahyel, will begin to accelerate in ways that will allow you very rapidly to transform yourself and shift yourself to parallel versions of Earth that are really far more representative of what you dream the Earth can be, because that dream does exist—that dream is real, it exists right now, and all you need to do is shift yourselves to that frequency in order to experience the reflection of that reality.

And it is us, bracketing you in this way, and your willingness to open up to the energy and information that we are sharing with all of you, that will—along with your agreement to participate in this program—begin to propel you in that direction vibrationally and energetically. And once again, we thank you for the gift that you are giving us in experiencing this transformation through your eyes.

So in all of these things that we share with you about this anagram and all of the different symbols that are representative of these different civilizational vibrations that you're tapping into and drawing upon informationally and energetically in your transformation as you go through your daily lives, allow yourselves to really play with these symbols. Meditate on them. Play with them. They are permission slips. Allow your imagination to do with them what feels natural, what you're most attracted to do. Align with them and allow yourself to begin to feel the opening of the energy within you, the flipping of the switches within your genetic makeup, so that you can really begin to experience your reality in a very magical way, because that is what your reality is.

Remember that you are always in spirit and you are just simply dreaming that you're not. So you're going to find, by focusing on many of these symbols and these vibrations and awakening these energies within you, that you're going to become far more lucid in the physical dream than ever before, and that will truly, truly transform your life in miraculous, magical, and mystical ways.

Allow yourselves to dive into the mystery, for there is far more underlying these symbols than we are telling you right now. We have only scratched the surface. Things will open up within you as you focus on these permission slips, and you will be astonished at what you will discover within yourselves.

In tomorrow's transmission, we will thus proceed to describe the relationships that you have to the Sirian civilization, the Arcturian energy, and the Pleiadian civilization, and furthermore explain the diagrams that bracket this anagram in the center with regard to the Homo sapiens, the Reptilian, the Proto-sapiens, and again the new hybrids—painting an entire picture in these three parts that will complete the vibrational resonance of the entire permission slip and give you maximum advantage, maximum opportunity for acceleration into more and more of your true preferred self and experiencing the reflections of that in your physical dream.




### The Anunnaki, Religion, and Hybrid Children

**Questioner:** I have a question about the anaki yes cover um a couple of things one is it seems like the anunaki made a homo sapian civilization from a homo erectus animal what about and that would maybe take care of the K the Egyptians and the Mediterranean group of people what about the Scandinavian and the chines takes care of all of you but how come the Scandinavians and the Chinese and others are so different

**Bashar:** You have environmental reasons that have activated different strains of genetic material that the Anunnaki interjected into you as we already just said the interjection of anunaki DNA injected into the homo erectus different genetics from different civilizations that different environmental factors would bring out in you as you spread across the Earth make sense

**Questioner:** Yes yes does that answer your question one other question uh the anunaki in the Old Testament is that the U interplay between the anunaki and the people of the old that are in the Old Testament is that their interaction with humans

**Bashar:** Some of those accounts yes some of the accounts are with other extraterrestrial beings or other dimensional beings but many of them are representative of some of the interactions that occurred with the anunaki in those times


### **Q&A Session 2: Religion, Quarantine, and Personal Experiences**

**Questioner:** Did religion come from the Anunnaki? I mean were they the root?

**Bashar:** Yes of religion yes very if it wasn't for the fact that you actually had these kinds of encounters with extraterrestrial beings in your history it is very unlikely you would actually have expressed your spirituality as you do today in the form of religion it's actually a relatively rare thing we have ever encountered on any other planet that you actually have this kind of religious rituality surrounding your spirituality and your connection to Creation so it is primarily because of those interactions that it has been transformed down through the ages in a religious context

**Questioner:** Yes um was the fact that Earth was in quarantine was that one of the reasons one of the reasons for what

**Bashar:** One of the reasons for what for basically the quarantine was for the purpose of allowing you to make your own decisions and evolve on your own without intervention or interference in ways that would throw you off the paths that you had decided were important for you this is one of the things that allowed you to begin to mature as a civilization as a species

**Questioner:** So the fact that we forgot our true Essence and all that it wasn't because of uh was it part of the whole plan

**Bashar:** Well it was part of your plan in the sense of having an experience of rediscovering yourself by having forgotten who you are through the Earth vibration of transformation so that you could add to your own understanding of your expansion of consciousness it's part of the maturation process okay does that make sense

**Questioner:** Yes it do it doesn't mean you haven't had guidance it doesn't mean you haven't had help but for the most part that kind of maturation only comes with a hands-off policy otherwise if we do everything for you you never really grow up okay make sense

**Questioner:** Yes it does it's just like the idea of of your own children you teach them certain things you give them certain guidelines and then you let them figure things out on their own otherwise they're not capable of really making decisions in life not capable of really having their own true experiences of maturation yes yes all right so are they um at the present time if I want

**Bashar:** There are no Anunnaki at the present time okay they have evolved into something else that we will discuss tomorrow night of your time

**Questioner:** Oh okay yeah that was my question well all right tomorrow day but does their planet neberu does it still exist

**Bashar:** It does in a certain form but not in the way that you think and we will not get into that right now okay this is part of the hands-off policy

**Questioner:** All right um my next question a few years ago I um while I was sleeping I experienced something like being something like being um I don't know how to explain this I was I felt like they're doing something

**Bashar:** Yes okay well again as we have said there are many different kinds of interactions with beings in particular with what we call the beings of the gray Federation that are making certain kinds of alterations vibrationally within you that allow you to move in the directions that are more in alignment with the agenda you agree to participate in yes

**Questioner:** Yes so did I so I did agree to participate in from a higher level

**Bashar:** Yes level it doesn't matter that your physical mind doesn't remember and in fact part of the idea is that your physical mind shouldn't remember because then it allows you to Simply get on with living your life without letting the idea of that agreement get in the way

**Questioner:** Well can I know right now but what was going on then

**Bashar:** You can know certain things about it as we have said certain alterations were made you are part of the idea of allowing some of your genetic material to be utilized in the creation of hybrid children you understand

**Questioner:** Exact that was my next question do I have hybrid children because that's yes how many why do you all always ask how many I'm just curious I just want to know it's exciting

**Bashar:** More than exciting more than three less than 20 less than 20 okay

**Questioner:** The 19 nope okay I know last night someone asked the same question yes they did will I meet them

**Bashar:** Some of them not all of them

**Questioner:** Okay so was that so that experience was part of the um the hybrid for the hybrid children it was that what I was exp because I could feel like a baby kicking but there was no b no although sometimes there have been fetuses that were removed and then incubated on the ships not necessarily in your case so I didn't go through that experience then

**Bashar:** Not exactly that way no slightly different energetically on another level yes but not physiologically okay because I W there are many levels to this experience cuz I woke up in the middle of the night saying okay slow down it was as if yes I knew but then no yes and you all have the ability to regulate exactly how that experience unfolds for you you are gaining more ability to be conscious in those experiences and remember that it is part of your agreement and therefore you are capable and it can express every right as to exactly how that needs to unfold in a way that works for you 

**Questioner:** Yes and may I ask when this happened exactly

**Bashar:** It began when you were 12 wow okay you have also aided and assisted in helping the children acclimate to The Earth Society by teaching them things when you are on the ships

**Questioner:** Wow no wonder now I would like to start teaching again

**Bashar:** No there you go it's filtering into your physical human life what you're doing on the ships yes

**Questioner:** Yes all right so is that exciting for you to teach

**Bashar:** Oh very

**Questioner:** All right and so when will you start acting on that in the most exciting way you can

**Bashar:** As soon as possible

**Questioner:** And as soon as possible means what

**Bashar:** Now

**Questioner:** Now is that a question

**Bashar:** No no it's a statement all right now now all right to the best of your ability every moment that you can that's all you need to do

**Questioner:** Yes yes does this help

**Bashar:** Yes it does anything else

**Questioner:** Yes um never ending ending questions answers answers I need okay um um I was in a meditation and I saw I saw myself on serus okay and um what did that look like to you in your meditation

**Questioner:** A lot of waters a lot of waters and I was hearing well the warm Waters of Sirus

**Bashar:** Well well now you understand the planet is not called Sirius that's the star system it's the star but yes the planet has a lot of water the beings there are amphibious in physical form we will talk about them more tomorrow of your time

**Questioner:** I saw myself swimming as a as a mermaid yes well sort of and I could not understand

**Bashar:** Well you have a strong connection to the serious vibration and a simultaneous Incarnation is connected to you there it's not exactly what you depict as a mermaid in your mythology but they are amphibious beings okay so there is a version in a sense an extension of your overs Soul there having an Incarnation as a serious being amphibious serious being thing they call themselves The O when they introduce themselves and again we will talk about this to more of your time in their language they say I am o which translates in their language as nomos you understand yes so if you look up nomos n o m m o s you will see that there have been interactions between your world and the amphibious beings from Sirius in the past

**Questioner:** Does this mean that through this experience that I have my other version of my other version is experiencing that on sirious I me

**Bashar:** That's what I'm saying there is a simultaneous Incarnation right now in that serious star system that is an amphibious being that is an extension of the same over Soul you are an extension of on Earth so you have that kind of vibrational connection

**Questioner:** That's exciting yes it is any other connection and she knows that she is being talked about right now okay all right wonderful will that help

**Bashar:** Yes a lot thank you so much understand that when you begin teaching you'll rely heavily on the vibrational connection between you and her all right right one more question just remember um I do remember um I do um I don't know if you we can call this channeling I do hear and I write yes um anything that you do that you love to do when you are flowing is a channeling State yes okay so I do hear and I do hear from different different beings all right then keep going I do I do my thank you thank you my question is uh recently I see and I hear the from the Council of Elders from the Galactic Federation and they are actually welcoming us

**Bashar:** Yes um eventually Earth will become a member of such federations of associations of alliances in the Stars yes so right now you are kind of a member in training

**Questioner:** Yes that's what I've been also hearing yes well there you go training that we we need to go through yes this is your probationary period anything else that you can add to that

**Bashar:** Nope no okay all right thank you thank you so much

***

### **Q&A Session 3: Oak Island, Nazca Lines, and Portals**

**Questioner:** Good day Bashar and you good day yeah my name is Joe from Vancouver Canada and I'm ecstatic being here today

**Bashar:** All right thank you we are ecstatic as well

**Questioner:** Yeah my first question um what's buried in uh the oak Island at the East coast of Canada and who buried them is it one of those uh hybrid civilization

**Bashar:** Nope nope nothing to do with that okay and uh can you there is something of value both physical and informational buried in that area is it going to be um identified soon or not yet

**Bashar:** Time as we scan the probability Matrix it seems like it has a very very high probability of being discovered somewhere between the next 25 to 50 years

**Questioner:** And what effect is going to have in our Consciousness right now

**Bashar:** It depends on who uncovers it okay can you tell more about that or one effect may be a deeper understanding of your history than you have now it may shed some light on things you didn't think were possible in your history that's one possible effect it will change the way you think of history in general so to speak another possible effect will be one moment really one moment someone is suggesting something to us all us all right they ask us to tell you they apologize but this is premature okay however there is a high probability that within 7 years time more information about this will be revealed

**Questioner:** Okay thank you my next question is um the NASA lines yes what's the purpose of those line and who made those lines

**Bashar:** They are generally energetic markers they are depictions of certain energetic frequencies wave guides that that depict the utilization of different kinds of portals for interdimensional travel if you measure them treating them as wave guides you will see how they are representative of certain frequencies that are representative of different portals interdimensionally that can be utilized aligned with by different craft different beings traveling between Dimensions they were constructed by the indigenous population but under the telepathic guidance of higher dimensional beings okay

**Questioner:** Thank you and uh my last question is um um I've been watching a lot of YouTube videos and I've been seeing people doing extraordinary things around the world is it sign of um a dimensional reality that I am right now because probably it will not be possible uh if I'm going to perceive it in the old vibration is it one of those sign that um

**Bashar:** Yes of course yes you can't perceive what you're not the vibration of yes understand

**Questioner:** Yes all right okay and uh one last question do I have hybrid children as well and how many

**Bashar:** [Laughter] there are nine of us

**Questioner:** Us Dad thank you son


### **Q&A Session 4: Light Forms, Probes, and Portals**

**Questioner:** I had the opportunity to show Bashar a couple to show the channel the channel uh Daryl a couple sketches of two light forms that I've seen in my house yes the one with the black and white strips with the light in between is a kind of interdimensional probe oh taking readings so on and so forth of the energy the vibrational states of your being the surrounding areas so on and so forth recording what's going on taking a sample so to speak where is it from

**Bashar:** Oh that's where it's from um there's no translation yeah it felt friendly it felt intelligent it is again it is a probe under intelligent control from any an interdimensional Place Earth or no an interdimensional place

**Bashar:** There are different dimensions. Some of them are not physical. Thus there is an interdimensional non-physical intelligence that when it extends a probe into your particular physical reality the probe will be taking on the clothing in a sense of physicalness and it will be perceived in the way that you perceived it so it's like an intelligence sticking its little finger into your reality and you seeing the tip of the finger does that make sense

**Questioner:** I've seen a blue yes uh object sitting on the car it's a locator and in a sense it's a little bit of a gift

**Questioner:** No is it a is it for the other object to locate where I'm at

**Bashar:** Yes oh and thus you were allowed also to perceive it so that that would be a gift that would let you know that there are more things going on around you than than you may think I think there's a lot um and there's more than you think oh wow so because you have heightened sensitivity as a kind of antenna as a kind of receiver so that you can perceive with your senses things that maybe normally invisible to most people on your planet you were being shown things in a sense in a playful way as a kind of a gift look at this what do you think about that look at this you understand yeah that's how feels and therefore you're given a sense to stretch your senses given an opportunity to know that you are capable of seeing more and more and more and more and more of the things that you may know are around you but haven't yet completely seen so the gift of the blue object is to actually give you more ability more precise ability to see more things like the other object oh so it functions as a locator and when we say locator not just the idea of the object finding that location locating you in the proper frequency make sense

**Questioner:** Is it I I yeah it's abstract right say so it's just like tuning a dial that's all uhhuh so when you're exposed to it and you are more finely tuned you will see more of those kinds of things that are all around you all the time that you don't always see

I'm also I'm seeing quite a lot of interesting things um another thing that I thought was kind of strange and interesting and I wondered if you could elaborate on it for me I was sitting on my couch and I noticed off to the left there was a looked like a quarter inch wall of water going across the entire room yes and there was uh what appeared the only way I can describe it is it looked like a a red green and Blue Portal yes and I was kind of curious well that's a decent description part of me wanted to go through it and just check it out and then another part of me felt like if I do I'm did you did I was curious what's on the what I can't tell you that did I see I can't tell you that if you don't have a memory of it yet I can't tell you that but you did explore it it's just that the exploration didn't take place in your normal time frame and so it seems as if no time took place at all like you didn't actually go but you did

**Questioner:** I've been seeing a lot of portals here and there

**Bashar:** Yes um so I keep exploring explored all those well some of them but you can begin to make a map of sorts if you wish a map of where you see them when you see them how you see them yeah begin to chart them this is actually in a rudimentary way the very beginnings of how we charted SpaceTime in order to be able to shift locational frequencies within ourselves and our ships to be able to go from star to star instantaneously this is the beginning of mapping SpaceTime in that way with all of the different vibrational locational portals

**Questioner:** So if I jump through one of these portals the next time I see it and I'm locid aw it's regular daytime yes um am I what is going to happen

**Bashar:** The same thing that happened before you may not remember that you did it okay it's not going to interrupt your physical life

**Questioner:** Yeah that was what I was just like it didn't do it before no no no no no yes you will s But please understand that you're already doing that anyway right it's just the becoming more Lucid about the fact that you're doing that that's all you're just seeing more evidence of what you're already doing that's all you're doing it's nothing different than you've been doing you're just seeing evidence that you're doing it so it's not going to change anything in that sense so those portals represent act an actual um shifting of

**Bashar:** Yes of a from one parallel reality to another that you're already doing

**Questioner:** I see that okay yes you're just being capable of seeing it that's all

**Questioner:** Yes I another uh fun thing that I observed uh when Bashar brought in his over soul I saw a huge um beam of light come down on top of Bashar in a big huge white rectangle and then the big huge white rectangle went down through the center of the room all right well again you are sensitive enough to see different kinds of streams and focal points of energy well were you guys checking out everybody that was here

**Bashar:** And we're always checking out everybody it's just again you're able to see some of the energies we're using to do so uh uhuh yes yeah all right yeah well thank you um let's see will that do um I was just curious if you have any more information about this seeing energy or

**Bashar:** Nope okay but are you thankful that I didn't kick your butt

**Questioner:** Oh yeah thank you for not kicking my butt

**Bashar:** All right well you're welcome I am thankful then thank you thank you

***

### **Q&A Session 5: Portals, Excitement, and Hybrid Children**

**Questioner:** Hello Bashar and of you good day I have quite a few questions today

**Bashar:** All right well we'll see how many answers we are allowed to provide okay

**Questioner:** Um the portals that lady was talking about earlier um I had um uh I I went through one and it was blue yes um would that be particularly specific place

**Bashar:** It might be more Associated vibrationally as we read your energy too serious yes

**Questioner:** Okay um and I also had a few outof body experiences and I would end up somewhere in Plum yes all right um this is normal to this is normal okay so again you're simply showing yourself that you have these energetic connections to these different vibrational locations these different civilizational experiences and probably have oversold counterparts existing in those locations as well

**Questioner:** All right well I kind of knew you're going to answer it that way no how psychic of you no it's what everyone gets I just wanted to get little more well you have to open the door okay I'll do that on my own

**Bashar:** Um no you don't have to but you just have to open the door in a way that allows us to perceive more of the information that you prefer to have

**Questioner:** I think my doors are open do you think so

**Bashar:** Um I think they are open

**Questioner:** Oh all right and what do you do in life that is your highest excitement

**Bashar:** Uh well I try to do everything I beg your pardon you try um it's just a figure of speech how humans talk I see uh what I meant I do almost all the time almost all the time

**Bashar:** Well we're limited here

**Questioner:** Oh really

**Bashar:** Yes we are and those limitations serve you then in a positive way

**Questioner:** Uh sometimes they do sometimes they don't well I'm talking about the ones that don't not the ones that do well we have physical limitations right we have to work and provide so sometimes it's not so pleasant really then you're saying you're not doing what excites you the most because you don't believe that what excites you can support you

**Questioner:** Well I don't think there is one person on Earth that actually does in every moment of their life what excites them the most

**Bashar:** Yes there are I never met them too bad you wonder why you never met them cuz we all have to work and because you don't exist on the same vibrational level that's why you've never met them possible Absolut absolutely probable you have a saying on your planet a labor of love is no labor at all therefore the idea is that the work that you do yes you have to do work but the work that you do can be wholly in alignment with your vibration of excitement and it will support you more than anything else that you choose to do that's out of alignment with your highest excitement you're holding yourself back by your definitions of what you think is necessary to do and in some Senses at the expense of what is really needed for you to do so what's holding you back from doing things that really would be what you'd prefer to do

**Questioner:** Oh well I think every person on this planet stop talking about every person isot you cannot use the society as an excuse to do things things that are not who you are so stop using the concept of humanity to perpetuate something you don't prefer to be at least give yourself that benefit all right all right okay so yes of course there are many people on your planet that are doing things they don't prefer to do but that's only because they've been taught that those things are necessary and they're not so as long as you believe you have to do things that are not you in order to be supported you will continue to buy into the idea that you have to do things that are not you in order to be supported but I guarantee you if you really start acting on the things more holy that are really the things you prefer to do that are more representative of you that automatically comes with the ability to support you but you'll never prove that to yourself unless you actually act on those things because you can't experience what you're not the vibration of first okay so it's up to you if you feel like that is not something you can buy into then by all means please continue to honor the belief system that says you have to continue to do things you don't prefer to do in order to be supported I'm not here to change your mind I'm only here to remind you that you can and you will be okay if you do but if you don't believe that you can there is nothing I can do to convince you you have to convince yourself by actually doing it and I guarantee you that if you do you will be supported

**Questioner:** I could say that I'm pretty much happy like I mean not 100% but 90% of the time I'm happy with what I have and what I do so all right that's fine if you want to stay at 90% stay at 90% that's fine stay at 90% you're doing just fine however let me remind you that in the definition of ecstasy there is no such thing as a concept of just fine so if you want to remain just fine that's fine if you want to be ecstatic

**Questioner:** Yeah but be ectic how possibly a human being can be ecstatic every like every day of their life why not

**Bashar:** Why not well maybe you have a misunderstanding of how ecstasy needs to be expressed when we talk about excitement we don't mean that you're jumping up and down with your hair on fire all the time okay so what excitement can be experienced passion can be experienced as a quiet peaceful state of balanced meditation too I'm not saying that the physical act is representative of excitement but being in the vibration of your true self in that passionate energy and allow it to be expressed in all the ways that it can be expressed will allow you to experience a constant stream of ecstasy in a variety of Expressions but that's far different than holding on to something and continuing to do something that you know is not what you prefer to do just because you think it's the only thing you can do in order to support yourself so watch your definitions you are in many ways all of you holding yourselves back just because you have defin defs of things that don't work for you it's not that the thing itself won't work it's that your definition of that thing won't work so when you ask a question well I can't just I just can't I can't imagine how I can't believe how a human can be ecstatic all the time that should tell you you have a definition of ecstasy that doesn't work for you create a definition that does and you will see that it is not only possible but highly probable that you can be in ecstasy all the time even if it's expressed as contemplation even if it's expressed as running around even if it's expressed as creative artistic expression even if it's expressed as sleeping it can be expressed in any number of ways but it can all be expressions of ecstasy if you create a definition that says that it is then it will reveal itself in your life that way does that make more sense

**Questioner:** Yes it does all right does that help

**Bashar:** Yes it did all right anything else

**Questioner:** Oh yes all right um okay well I still don't understand that concept of hybrid children can you uh explain how we create them you understand the civilization called the Grays yes I do well you understand that they have taken humans from Earth aboard ships and extracted genetic material and mixed it with their own to create hybrid being well I I believe it happens in out of body State not in a physical

**Bashar:** It happens in both States um so there are physical hybrids of which again my civilization is Created from physical hybrids all right um so so why don't we have any uh proofs of people having actual uh children I mean being I don't know how they created being pregnant

**Bashar:** You have a lot of evidence you're just not doing enough research to find it there is a lot of evidence of that but you're being told that there is none and you're buying into that do your own research and you'll find out there is so much evidence you will suddenly realize how much evidence is being hidden from the general public okay there's a lot of all right public okay there's a lot of all right so the question is which doesn't really interest me but I just want because I want to see whether it resonates with uh what with me all right so my question would be do I have any hybrid children what a surprise and why I'm not aware of them

**Bashar:** Because the rate at which you remember that you have them helps us determine when you are ready for more conscious awareness of contact that's one of the reasons why many people don't remember that they've already had contact we use the rate at which you remember you've had contact to determine when you're ready for more contact you are a little bit different it's not that you have the children directly but you have an energetic template in your energy that is something that has been used in the hybridization program to help create the hybrids but not directly in in the way that you mean it the energetic template pattern within you is used to create the template on which the hybrids are grown so to speak

**Questioner:** I see does that help y a lot um can I ask a few more questions I don't know that was a question uh no um my my uh friend asked me to ask you if uh all right uh whether our blood types are connected to our Galactic region or Orin

**Bashar:** In some senses yes but it's not an absolute determination because there are many other factors involved but you have to know what to look for

**Questioner:** What about distinctive birth marks that can sometimes be representative of connections you have to other incarnations

**Bashar:** And it can be representative of other civilizations if again you understand what to look for okay does this help

**Questioner:** Yes it does uh and the last one yes we'll see about that what happens right after uh a human passes uh to afterlife

**Bashar:** They experience a potential of a variety of things many of them not all of them many of them experience the actual interdimensional shift which you interpret as a tunnel of light not everyone experiences that some people just wake up oh here I am and where they are I mean where they are here but in a different dimension in a different frequen quy domain in what you call the spirit realm but they are here

**Questioner:** Uh is that temporary that real I mean there now

**Bashar:** Please understand you're asking questions from a linear perspective so from a linear perspective yes it can be temporary in actuality everything exists at the same time so you are always physical and you are always in spirit MH so it just depends on how you want to look at this idea if you want to look at it from an experiential point of view a linear point of view then yes you die you go into Spirit you can decide to be reborn you can have different adventures in non-physical reality you can be born into different civilization you can be born at a time before the last life after the last life anything you want because time there is very fluid very malleable it's not what it is in physical reality nevertheless from the actual mechanism's point of view all of those experiences are happening all at once just in your Consciousness around to see things from a different point of view to create different experiences but all those experiences exist at the same time okay

**Questioner:** Um is there one moment not done sorry it's all right you don't have to apologize many people will experience the idea of meeting bless you loved ones on the other side when they arrive you understand yep many people will experience what is typically called The Life review which means they look at the experience of the physical life they just had and they experience the consequences of every choice and every action from the point of view of every single being that those choices and actions affected as if they are those beings because there is no barrier anymore to the idea that you are all one so suddenly you're no longer compartmentalized as yourself in the same way even though you still have your identity you start to experience things as if you are all the other people that you've had experiences with and heard them maybe yes and you start experiencing it from their point of view but it's a learning lesson it's an opportunity to experience the idea of how to balance that energy out within yourself learn from it and grow okay so those are the typical things that are experienced by many people on your planet when they enter the idea called the afterlife there are other things that happen meeting certain kinds of celestial beings understanding things you didn't understand in life being able to communicate in dreams with people who are still alive all these different kinds of things can occur but again it's just a matter of the different choices that you make there are some Spirits based on the ideas they believed in most strongly in life who may not even know that they're dead when they cross over

**Questioner:** Well that was my next question okay

**Bashar:** These people may choose to hang around because they don't necessarily know or don't necessarily believe that there is an afterlife and they may find themselves a bit confused wandering around why no one interacts with them in the same way these are the beings that you typically call ghosts so those are the ones that are stuck it's not that they're really stuck it's just that they don't quite understand what's going on but they have help from the other side through guides who allow them to understand that they have actually crossed over and even people from your side can sometimes work with spirits to let them know it's time to move on

**Questioner:** Yeah I've done it myself I just wanted some confirmation that all right we'll did that give it to you

**Bashar:** Yes you have thank you so much you are so welcome thank you

***

### **Q&A Session 6: Learning, Food, and Evolution**

**Questioner:** Hello bash any you good day hi I followed my highest excitement thank you and I have I don't really have a question I just thought I should be up here all right if you believe that you should be up there then thank you for being up there um and while I was sitting I just thought of something things um share what you wish I feel like to continue my highest excitement sometimes I feel like I need to learn Le more yes well then do so what's stopping you from learning what you need to learn

**Questioner:** Well sometimes I've just heard that we just have infinite intelligence at our own axis just through meditation and as a kid I remember just like dreaming of if I just like were to able to just touch a book could I just download all the information without reading it and so so how do you do that

**Bashar:** Well you used to do it why are you asking me

**Questioner:** Well no I just thought it'd be cool if I did

**Bashar:** Well then do it that's possible didn't you do it before

**Questioner:** No I said I thought it would be cool if I did as a kid

**Bashar:** Yeah all right well what prevents you from knowing that you can do it

**Questioner:** Um I it's just it was just a fantasy as a kid

**Bashar:** So my fantasies are real things that I could potentially do yes so the idea that it's a fantasy is preventing you from doing it h yes that's really cool okay what would happen if you did so believing that I can do it and knowing knowing that you can do it and if it is relevant for you maybe it's not relevant would that be okay

**Questioner:** Yeah are you sure this just sounds fun

**Bashar:** I beg your pardon

**Questioner:** No I just thought that would be fun

**Bashar:** Well yes but if it isn't relevant would that also be fun totally all right then without any assumption any insistence any expectation allow yourself to know it can be done yes yeah I'll use a word in your language that most of you understand go practice yes yeah all right okay so see what happens cool all right um don't place any expectations on yourself or the experience let it come in the way that it needs to let it come in the way that it needs to unfold for you you know it's not that different from the idea of using a permission slip like tarot cards and things like that you understand just look at the book and the information that it represents as another permission slip and extract from It Whatever information seems relevant for you to know at that particular minute in any way shape or form that works for you yes yes you can treat books in that way if you wish cool I'm totally going to do that whatever temperature you want another question that came up um I've I've never heard of any of this that we're talking about I'm really excited and open to being informed of yes this Leading Edge uh conversation and um one thing that came up was as we evolve into that conscious being what and even in other civilizations that are existing um in other planets what um like with food and other like life essential things that we're used to what does that look like as we evolve do we still need to

**Bashar:** It can be many different kinds of things it is highly probable as you evolve and of course this is on a Case by case basis it might be different for different people you understand but in General on average it might be that as you evolve you will no longer feel the need or the urge to consume solid sustenance we no longer do we survive on energy we no longer eat we no longer sleep and this is something that what you call the human race May evolve to in your fourth density reality it is relatively likely eventually not right away but eventually MH there are breatharians a few yes that exists a few yes but we were talking about the generality of humanity mhm yeah and being something like that may not necessarily serve everyone

**Questioner:** Yeah doesn't sound exciting all right well then yeah um follow your natural course what is correct for you MH just because you may still eat certain things doesn't mean you're any less spiritual than someone that does not it's just your way of doing things yes MH all right does that help

**Questioner:** Yeah all right anything else

**Bashar:** No I didn't really have a questions just want to be up here thank you so much you are welcome thank

***

### **Q&A Session 7: Gray Encounters, Wanderers, and Family Connections**

**Questioner:** You hi B and you good day so I have to say that uh I think you're absolutely awesome I'm really excited to be think that you have some awe too thank you or we think that you are full of awe does that make you awful no all right thank you just playing with you thank you so uh in my early adulthood um for several years I was that last week uh no it was a little a few few decades ago oh all right um I was having repeated dreams over and over again of of this little gray um and it would be the exact same dream over and over again I don't know how many times so I could predict the dream and see him coming and happen and and um you understand that that's just your physical mind's memory and interpretation of actual encounters

**Questioner:** Yes well this was what I was surmising all right and I was actually wondering if I if that was me in like a simultane

**Bashar:** It isn't always that way but more often than not it is the ones that you meet in those kinds of encounters are usually other versions of you in other realities yes that's what allows there to be a vibrational compatibility that allows certain aspects of the interaction to occur more readily because in a sense they know who you are if you will actually do the research you will find that on the rare occasions where so-called abductees have actually asked the Grays something and gotten a kind of an answer the Grays have often said you are us so that's basically what that means sometimes it means it specifically I am you and another life in a sense so to speak and it also means it generically in what we have already told you they are a parallel version of human from Earth that have mutated themselves therefore they are another version of all of you they are another track another path

**Questioner:** So was there a particular relevance as to why I kept having this encounter over and over again with the same being I'm not I wasn't really clear on the relevance

**Bashar:** Well again the relevance is that you agreed to be part of the overall hybridization agenda okay are you now going to ask how many kids you have

**Questioner:** No I'm not going to ask that actually no I I just assume that they it's probably out there so um but I then I went through a another series of Dreams where I was having um experiences of the Earth being taken over by a more aggressive alien race and I was having these dreams again repeatedly yes um to the point where I was sort of fed up with it they were very scary yes um and they would always end before I was actually abducted or in my memory so I'd be caught and then the dream would end so this final dream though that I had I'm from Toronto Canada and I remember seeing the the race had landed I couldn't see them physically and it was sort of on the waterfront um at the end of the base of Toronto and I could sense that they were coming and they they sent the dogs and these Dobermans were running yes um towards us and I said no enough stop so they Doberman was running towards me it leaped to leaped out at me and I just wound up punched it right in the head it went on the ground and I just said no no more and ever since that dream I never had another memory of these encounters all right very good that was a test okay to see if you would stand your ground okay and face your fear which you did congratulations

**Questioner:** Thank you so moving forward though I I really feel connected to uh extraterrestrial all of my life yes but haven't really had the experience I don't understand the relevance as to why

**Bashar:** Because you're part of the overall agenda of the transformation and evolution of the earth that you agreed to participate in because it sounded like fun okay as a spirit as something that will help you grow change help others grow change yes okay so uh another question sort of connected to this one moment Yep this experience was actually a little bit more your idea than most which which experience the hybridization agenda your counterpart in that Civilization is one of the ones that decided to come here and do this do you understand

**Questioner:** Not quite sorry

**Bashar:** Decisions were made in the society you call the Grays as to where to go to get genetic material to Aid and assist them in creating the hybrid civilizations that would allow their culture to continue your counterpart was on the deciding Council to come here to come to Earth yes

**Questioner:** Oh I see so you're a little bit more involved in the decision to do that than most interesting okay how does that sit with you

**Bashar:** Why does that feel natural to you

**Questioner:** I do have a a very for some reason I feel very connected to extraterrestrial yes

**Bashar:** I know and we're finding out why trying to figure out why so and and it's actually hard for me to be here present physically in this human body

**Bashar:** It's all right you're doing fine yeah don't worry about it okay you have a little bit of a connection to what we call The Wanderer energy little bit beings that decide to have incarnational experiences but are not really fully connected to the place that they incarnate but they want to participate in what's going on there because it's exciting and they want to be a part of it and learn from it but they're not as attached as many people are okay to the Incarnation is that feeling like it makes sense to you all right so yes you have a little bit of that Wanderer being energy okay you have actually many different threads connected to many different kinds of things including threads into our civilization

**Questioner:** I thought so as well yes yes what about UA in the Orion civilizations

**Bashar:** I'm not sure just I you mentioned UA is a PL Planet Hua Hua yeah you have some connections to the ancient Orion civilizations as well but again only as a Wanderer okay a Wanderer is kind of like a being who goes around looking for the scariest rides in the amusement park okay catch the drift

**Questioner:** Yes a bit so you do interject yourself into things you think will be very exciting plays things that play out in very exciting ways

**Bashar:** Not too many things right now are as exciting as the kind of transformation going on on Earth at this time

**Questioner:** This is true I had a question regarding my physical daughter yes uh and whether there was any ET influence in me becoming pregnant with her

**Bashar:** Oh yes I thought so yeah okay oh yes it's all part and parcel of the game that you're playing out and all part and parcel of the play that you are in okay one moment name of your daughter Emma name of you Shelly is your daughter particularly fond of nature in any particular way what is her age

**Questioner:** She's 16

**Bashar:** What is her excitement

**Questioner:** Music and language

**Bashar:** Is she aware that there are different forms of language in nature

**Questioner:** I don't think so actually

**Bashar:** Ask if she is interested in exploring the idea of using her interest in music and language to explore the concept of vibrational resonance and see if she believes that can be applied to the idea of understanding other life forms other than humans okay Dolphins trees other life forms see what she does with that idea it's not something you have to push just see what she does with that thought of using her connection to music language those kinds of communication vibrations with respect to the idea of other life forms and the way in which they may communic thank you all right I will thank you all right thank you you're welcome thank you bye-bye

***

### **Q&A Session 8: Anunnaki/Reptilians, Sounds, and Prison Connection**

**Questioner:** Good day Bashar and you good day one moment if you please there are so many different kinds of EXP extraterrestrial vibrational threads going through the Channel's body right now we need to make a minor adjustment one moment all right proceed I'd like to ask about the connection with the Anunnaki and the reptilians

**Bashar:** Well we will get into the idea of the reptilians tomorrow of your time okay

**Questioner:** Okay and okay I'll leave that then all right um but thank you for your pre for my what pre pressence foresight oh mhm um a few months ago I woke up and had this um sound going on in my left ear yes it's a kaleidoscope of sound yes um kind of metallic or digital yes in nature uh can you explain to me what that might be

**Bashar:** You may becoming a little bit more sensitive to certain other dimensional frequencies okay did it in any way shape or form Echo any familiar instruments on your planet

**Questioner:** Uh the first thing that popped into my head was the hung was there any similarity to the instrument called Didu I can't really make that connection all right one moment how are your dreams um does anything stand out more than another

**Questioner:** Kids that I'm working with they're severely emotionally disturbed boys and they in your life or in your dream both

**Bashar:** All right they're with me all the time and what are you doing with them

**Questioner:** Um time and what are you doing with them um I'm a mentor counselor for them are you able to allow any experience of balance within them to allow any experience are you able to provide any experience for them that allows them to feel more balanced expressively balanced rather than the emotional disturbance you described

**Questioner:** Yes I feel my presence and my vibration contributes to their balance

**Bashar:** What you are hearing is the tonal qualities of the vibrations that will help balance them more rapidly can you translate that experience into what you do with them what does your imagination allow you to Invision in taking the idea of those sounds in your ear and Translate it into the work that you do with them

**Questioner:** The hung just keeps coming up more and more do you believe you can use these kinds of instrumentations to create an environment an atmosphere that will be more conducive to balance for them

**Questioner:** Yes I'd love to do that do that

**Bashar:** Okay you are being given assistance from a guide in this it is where the sounds emanate from is that exciting for you

**Questioner:** Yes I'm just feeling a really heart connection right now yes release open breathe in deeply let out breathe in deeply let out breathe in deeply let out do you perceive any colors currently right now or in general now do any colors stand out in your imagination now

**Questioner:** Blue purple

**Bashar:** Are there any flowers of that color on your planet yes find some keep them close it will Aid and assist as permission slip to facilitate more direct communication between guides and you so you have clearer understanding of communications that come okay does this help you yes move forward in your excitement with the children then in this way way with the musical instrument as you have named it this will be of assistance to you and to them okay does this help you yes is this sufficient I have another question ask

**Questioner:** Um I am uh six years ago I went into a prison and and made a soul connection with one of the prisoners and we're married now and we have work to do on this planet and um we're expecting that he's going to get out of prison I expect it to happen within the next year and um I'm wondering if there's any information you can give me about that

**Bashar:** It is not for us to give you this information at this time okay there will be other guidance you will receive on this watch the synchronicity in your life to see the path most clearly okay watch the synchronicity in your life to see the path most clearly watch the synchronicity in your life to see the path most clearly does this help you

**Questioner:** Like coming down here for this weekend follow your follow your synchronicity okay thank you very much pleasant dreams to you

***

### **Q&A Session 9: The Anagram, Peace, and Healing**

**Questioner:** Hello Bashar and you good day um my first question is about the chart that we received the handout for yes this weekend the anagram yes what about it well could this be expanded like for instance are you giving us a small portion

**Bashar:** Oh yes absolutely that's why you have these slight indications around it of other anagrams and there are other levels even beneath the eagr you are seeing it has great depth great height to it you are seeing a slice through the middle of a par of it right

**Questioner:** Well if we were to see the entire one which I understands many levels yes what would be in the center

**Bashar:** At the moment you because it's an anagram for you the connections that we are delivering to you place you in the center because it is relevant for the transformation you are going through and needs to show you the connections that you all have to the different beings among the the Stars this may be one reason why so many of you consider yourselves to be the center of the universe

**Questioner:** Well um how long would it be before we can become aware of the other um Parts in this

**Bashar:** More information will be given after open contact that will allow you to understand your true Galactic history and the history even on your own planet in a different way than you have been taught it so there will be a little more information coming from us and others up to that time but at that time a lot more information will be being delivered by other beings that you shall encounter first and then after that of course it will accelerate until such time as you are transitioning into the sixth hybrid race where you will as you say pretty much know most of it okay thank you for that all right

**Questioner:** Um my next question is as I understand uh the things that I've learned since I've been listening to you and coming here uh I am the creator of my own universe or yes my own experience yes um do I have the ability so myself self personally do I have the ability to bring peace to the world

**Bashar:** Yes by shifting yourself into a peaceful State and allowing yourself to shift through billions of parallel Earth realities that are more and more and more and more and more and more reflective of that peaceful State until eventually that's all you experience on the version of Earth you wind up on of course you will still keep changing but from that point forward there will only be versions that reflect that peaceful state to you this will happen in eventuality okay so the change you wish to see is the change you make within yourself

**Questioner:** I see because I remember when I was a child and we would have Christmas and they and or not even then um when we would say our prayers at night yes as a little child when I would I my prayer was to for the world to have peace and and I really believe that that was possible that world exists

**Bashar:** Well that's good that's great all versions of Earth that you can imagine exist there are those that have utterly annihilated themselves and there are those that live in absolute Bliss the idea is for you to understand that you are shifting through billions of versions every second of different Earths and the changes you make within yourself are what guide you what steer you like a Rudder through the different variations of Earth so that you begin to experience more and more eventually only only those variations that are most reflective of what is most purely your preference in energy but the more you express yourself in alignment with that energy of passion and preference the more you act as an example for others so that they can see in you an example of how they can choose that for themselves as well so on your journey you are always sending flowers to others to allow them to know this is possible for them to they don't have to choose it but you give them an opportunity to recognize at least that it is one of the options by showing the absolute Bliss peace and ecstasy you experience by having chosen it for yourself and then believe me when you radiate at that frequency they will want some too and then you can share with them how they can choose what is truly them and experience it in the same way in a sense this is what we're doing with you we're giving off the vibration of our absolute certainty in living an ecstatic life which is the way we live it doesn't mean that in any way shape or form we insist that you have to choose that we're just letting you know you can because we're already experiencing it and you can too if that's what you prefer so we're giving you the toolkit to apply in your physical reality that will allow you to experience that idea no matter what's going on

**Bashar:** Well you all of you have simply decided to arrive at a point and shift yourself to a parallel version of Earth where such conversations between you and beings like us can exist so that's already an indication that you're shifting in the direction that you prefer otherwise we wouldn't be having these conversations because we don't do pointless things and we don't spend time having conversations with versions of Earth that want nothing to do with us or what we have to offer

**Bashar:** Yes and I do have another question oh all right um it's been a long time ago I had an experience on a camping trip I got sick like I had pneumonia and um it was late at night I was camped under these sycamore trees yes and is that why you got sick

**Questioner:** No I had I was sick before I went camping but it got worse because it was cold and then while I was there in my um sleeping bag on the ground yes I don't know how really how to explain it it's like I well you can use perhaps oh let's see English okay I'll try that oh all right um I I guess I asked for help somehow yes and I felt this energy like like a lightning bolt hit me yes and I believe it came from the sycamore tree we were Camp

**Bashar:** They participated it's not the only source but they participated in helping guide it yes

**Questioner:** Well when I woke up in the morning or actually even before that H my lungs were completely clear it's as if I had never been sick and I I really you had yeah there you go because I shifted right well the thing is is that after that I felt like there was a piece of wood inside of me as if I had the essence of the tree inside of me and it took weeks before it faded like maybe gave yourself the opportunity to explore being sick no more being sick no more being sick no more and the tree helped me I I felt that and I still know where that tree is and I love that tree and the tree clearly loves you yeah and I've actually gone back to visit it and touched it and said I love then do stay in touch with your friend okay I'll do that um I do want to ask one more thing and it's about my son and name his name is Yan yes age he's 30 all right um I think that he's uh like maybe it's not a good question but I was going to say he's very tall and so he is and so um he and I have discussed it and I kept saying I think you're anoi so many people on your planet have strong strains of unaki blood and genetics within them and some of these are being opened up again to be expressed and reflected in new generations of people on your planet so yes there is some genetic connection to that although there's some other things mixed in there as well okay um those are all the questions I have thank you very much thank you okay bye nania

***

### **Q&A Session 10: Orion, Selenite, and Lions**

**Questioner:** Yes T proceed okay um the question that came from our Ustream listener is also something that I'd like to explore with you at this time and that is the idea of ecstasy and what your definition of ecstasy is

**Bashar:** The experience of being fully in alignment with yourself as the aspect of source that you are so that translates in our reality as a feeling of excitement passion support passion creativity yes so when we're in those States it seems like there's many things that happen simultaneously you have a deep appreciation for existence yes you can feel the richness of your existence and and the uniqueness of it yes the uniqueness of the reflection that you are now aligned with as an aspect of creation of existence itself and you feel this state of positive expectation and excitement about what's going to happen next yes without needing to be specific about what that should look like and an incredible sense of Freedom yes that in a sense your life is Limitless in its own relevant way yes or what's possible in terms of your G your dreams coming true what probable what's probable in terms of your dreams coming true yes so it's just a deep sense of fulfillment and peace and all these positive States yes now when you talk about the idea of your true self yes and the also the idea of the signature vibration same thing okay so when you're experiencing your signature vibration you experience as your true self and it puts you in that state of ecstasy that's the expression of that alignment yes and from that state of ecstasy you can move forward in your life towards anything that is exciting and passionate for you when you're actually in that state you have more of a sense that life is moving through you so then you start working with the idea that what you already need is being attracted and you don't stop it from coming so the focus is on Creative expression yes using yourself as a conduit as an actual channel for more of yourself so individuals who are living their passion are consistently expressing a kind of creativity in everything that they do it's an orgasmic flow of more of yourself funneling through you and one of the ways that you it's one of the things that's not compatible with is States like worry or um fear that something negative is going to happen they are not definitions that are vibrationally compatible with the concept of ecstasy and often you've mentioned that unless you're expressing that exact State like you're describing right now you're really not truly living your excitement it's a different definition okay so when we go through that process of doing a little bit more and a little bit more uh by letting go of negative definitions and welcoming everything that comes into our reality yes as an opportunity to learn about ourselves or express ourselves more fully yes we will get glimpses of what it really means to exist in a reality yes you will have what you call Spikes you'll have Peak moments where you touch into that frequency and learn how to bring that experience into your life in a way that will bring you back up to that level in a more conscious way more and more and more and more until it becomes more consistent does that help

**Questioner:** Yes and as we live our lives now approaching those ideas by letting go of negative definitions um to which what degree I know it's possible to do do the whole thing where you literally become that signature vibration that true self and you're consistently living that state yes to what degree you're capable of doing that will depend upon each person's uh degree of uh definitions that prevent them from doing that and whatever processes they believe they need to experience in their lives in order to have the experience that will allow them to appreciate where it is they will ultimately wind up when they get there so when we swim with dolphins and we're experiencing that ecstatic State yes that's giving us an opportunity to be in closely approximate that frequency because they have a better ability to do that right now just because of the nature of their reality

**Questioner:** Yes because we help yeah we notice that the Dolphins generally are in an ecstatic state when they interact with us

**Bashar:** Yes or they're creatively focused on something else but they they give their whole being so they are good reflections of that and they are good to practice that energy with yes and in terms of the negative definitions that we move through in order to be able to express ourselves this way what have you understood about the way our psyche works because we've come from a high level of limitation through our childhood or whatever teachings we've received as humans we are helping to shift you from a perspective of linear time to one of more wholeness one that is more representative of living in the now and as the information is applied more and more and more by different individuals depending upon their belief systems and what they believe is applicable that will be the major arc from the idea of understanding yourself from a perspective of linear SpaceTime to one that is more representative of living in the present and all the things that go hand inand with that as experiences that are more vibrationally compatible with the idea of living in the now at this timing it is important for you to take a short break and allow us to resume the transmission with your holot experience okay okay great so we will resume in 15 minutes all right thank you T


### **Holotropic Experience Guidance**

let yourself drift into the journey the journey between the star allow the holot to be a reflection a mirror of all the different vibrational connections that we have spoken of will speak of will speak of and allow yourself to Simply see all the different lines and Connections in the holot as vibrational resonant Links of energy and information passing to and fro between you at the center and all the different associations affiliations and alliances connections that you have formed with all the different vibrational dimensions and civilizations that inform your life here in the transformational age upon the Earth this place this time you have chosen to be remember that it is your choice to be here and all the things that you are experiencing on your journey are there for your education there for your experience there to provide you an opportunity for more and more transformation for more and more experience to Aid and assist in the growth of your Consciousness to allow you the opportunity to experience things from New Perspectives in New ways every single experience you have is an opportunity for Discovery an opportunity to become to experience to expand into more and more awareness of the being that you are give yourself with every opportunity the chance to neutralize and imbue that experience with positive definitions so that you may align more readily with your true core ecstatic vibration in the unique perspective of the aspect of all that is that you are created to be you are here you are now you are one you are all what you give off is what you will get back and you will constantly change into a new ecstatic experience of yourself and as you align with all of these extraterrestrial and extradimensional vibrations that we are transmitting to you through the interstellar anagram experience through this permission slip through this vibrational resonant opportunity to connect to the different aspects within your genetic Matrix and call upon them bring them to the Sur purpose Express them and see what creative outflow may come from them what new Endeavors what new directions what new Explorations and what new discoveries you may make as you tap into each and every one of these vibrational symbols that puts you in touch with another aspect another facet of these multi-dimensional crystals that you each are expressing your own unique unique idea of the collective as an individual and seeing that you have far fewer limitations than you may have imagined allowing you to bring in what is truly relevant for your life your theme of exploration allowing you to feel that familial connection to all the different counterparts that you may have simultaneously in all of these different civilizations bringing all those experiences to Bear Here and Now bringing them to fruition in the you that you are allowing you to experience more of all the different sides all the different ways all the different perspectives all the different methods that you have of being you allow yourself to drift in that energy now make it your own anchor it in allow yourself to crystallize these vibrations as you encounter them within you as we go through each and every one of these symbols allow your own imagination and your higher mind to teach you to show you to allow you to feel through the opening of your heart and the opening of your mind and the opening of your chakra of intention in your solar plexus the alignments that can be experience the resonances that can be felt the ideas and inspirations that can be yours as they come to you along those effortless paths that flow between you and all the different counterpart connections that you may have in all of these vast and various civilizations that are all contained within your genetic makeup that you can call upon like notes in an orchestration singing a new song of yourself into being bringing forth a new field of flowering ideas feeling all of the connections that you have to all of the different levels of family that you are a part of that you belong to and that belonged to you experience the Feast of sharing of all of these vibrations the appreciation the Gratitude the Thanksgiving that you experience yourself to be for all that you have created in your life that has brought you to this point all you are creating now and all that you will ever create for now you are beginning to truly see the anagram the compilation of the vibrations that make you up the Symphony of sounds and songs that are the one single unique voice of your being the reflection and Resonance of the voice of all that is expressed through you in the song of your story of your life of your light of Your Love in full appreciation hold yourself in full gratitude hold yourself in full Grace hold yourself in Ultimate deserv ability hold yourself in clear comprehension hold yourself in crystallin confidence hold yourself as you are held in the unconditional support of all that is and release all those things that are not vibrationally compatible with who you know yourself to be Let Yourself Go do not hold yourself back for you are a gift to the world and there are those waiting to receive your gift as you are waiting to receive the gifts of others let go be the gift be the example in your life so that others may know they can choose for themselves to align with their ecstasy as well with their connections and their vibrations to their counterparts as well so that they may know themselves for this is is the totality of all that is necessary to experience the life of ecstasy the life of creativity the life of love the life of passion all that is necessary is to know thyself be thyself that is all you need to do to the best of your ability every moment that you can nothing else shall ever be asked of you but to be yourself that is all and that is enough and it is as simple as that rejoice in the Simplicity and the beauty of your life for it is art in its highest form the art of action the Art of Living the art of Being who you are uniquely perfectly every moment no matter how many changes you may go through you are always at every given moment the perfect version of you at that moment judge not that you need to be more for you are everything already you will ever be and this journey is simply a journey of discovering all that you are or can be from this perspective from this point of view from this theme of exploration from this experience now allow relevance to be your path to be your guide and let in the probabilities of what will serve you best and serve the best of all concerned as you serve those around you by being yourself be the amalgamation and the alloy of all the vibrations that you are allow The Crucible to let you dissolve become fluid flexible malleable and then reform in Crystal Clarity with these vibrational frequencies and resonances perfectly placed molecularly bonded atomically structured within your very being your very essence your very energy your very Spirit your very Soul your very identity breathe in the vibrations the chords and the harmonies and breathe them out into your reality and allow your higher mind mirror to reflect them back to you and as they come back to you breathe them in and make them your own and cherish them and breathe out the new reality and as the higher mind mirror reflects that new reality back to you breathe it in and hold it nurture it Comfort it support it and blow it out and may it ever be the refreshing Winds of Change that will always allow you to experience yourself a new every moment as you shift but always the you you prefer to be give yourself no reason to be anything other and no reason will be experienced by you to be anything but who and what you are it is the only choice the only choice that matters allow allow yourselves again to relax and as you crystallize this experience within yourself to know that as you come forth into this new day and this new reality this new time and new world you are a new being every moment and have the opportunity and the power to clearly choose who you prefer to be it is up to you up to you up to you if you are up to it allow yourself to rise to the occasion of being who you are and rejoice at the choice that you make