---
title: "Protect Small Businesses and Entrepreneurship (Joint Employer)"
date: 2024-11-01
description: "America’s religious diversity means that workplaces include people of many faiths and that many employers are faith-based"
c: "firebrick"
icon: "Heritage Foundation"
---



Millions of businesses across America engage in mutually beneficial affiliation arrangements with other businesses. These arrangements include janitorial services, staffing firms, construction contractors and subcontractors, technology support services, and many other vendor and contracting services. They also include the nearly 775,000
independently owned franchise businesses, which employ 8.2 million workers across the United States. The franchise structure offers a proven business model for
individuals who want to own and operate their own small business. 

An Obama-era regulation changed the definition of a joint employer to make corporate franchisors jointly liable for employees of individual franchisee owners, even without the
franchisor exercising any direct control over those employees. 

The Biden Administration is advancing an even more expansive definition of a joint employer that would upend the franchise business model, taking away ownership and income
opportunities from small-business entrepreneurs, costing jobs, and raising prices. 

Overtime Pay Threshold. Overtime pay is one of the most challenging aspects of the Fair Labor Standards Act rules. “Nonexempt workers” (e.g., workers whose
job duties fall within the law’s power or whose total pay is low enough) must be
paid overtime (150 percent of the “regular rate”) for every hour over 40 in a workweek.

Overtime requirements may discourage employers from offering certain fringe benefits such as reimbursement for education, childcare, or even free meals
because the benefits’ value may be included in the “regular rate” that must be
paid at 150 percent for all overtime hours. And because some of these fringe benefits may be more valuable (and often come with tax preferences that benefit the
worker), the goal should be to set a threshold to ensure lower-income workers have the protections of overtime pay without discouraging employers from offering
these benefits.


DOL should maintain an overtime threshold that does not punish businesses in lower-cost regions (e.g., the southeast United States). The Trump-era threshold is high enough to capture most line workers in lower-cost regions. One possibility to consider (likely requiring congressional action) would be to automatically update the
thresholds every five years using the Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE) as an inflation adjustment. This could reduce the likelihood of
a future Administration attempting to make significant changes but would also impose more adjustments on businesses as those automatic
increases take hold.

Congress should clarify that the “regular rate” for overtime pay is
based on the salary paid rather than all benefits provided. This would
enable employers to offer additional benefits to employees without fear that
those benefits would dramatically increase overtime pay.

Congress should provide flexibility to employers and employees to calculate the overtime period over a longer number of weeks.

Specifically, employers and employees should be able to set a two- or four-week period over which to calculate overtime. This would give workers
greater flexibility to work more hours in one week and fewer hours in the next and would not require the employer to pay them more for that same
total number of hours of work during the entire period.

Compliance-Assistance Programming. Labor agencies are often tempted to encourage “over compliance” by companies subject to regulation by pursuing “regulation through enforcement” strategies. Rather than giving regulated entities clear boundaries for what they can and cannot do under the law, the agencies rely on the vagueness of the law to bring enforcement activity against businesses
that fail to meet an inspector or agency head’s personal standard. This is not fair
to regulated parties and results in disfavored companies bearing the brunt of the
agencies’ enforcement efforts even though their behavior may be within the main-
stream of employer behavior.

Labor agencies should provide compliance assistance to help
businesses and workers better understand the agencies’ position
on their own rules and should do so in a way that makes it easier
to follow those rules. This frees people to focus on their work rather
than slogging through an ever-growing body of laws, rules, and guidance
documents generated by the agencies.

DOL should reinstitute the PRO Good Guidance rule via notice
and comment.

Congress should amend the Administrative Procedure Act11 to
explicitly limit the use of guidance documents.


Clear and Restrictive Rules on Guidance Documents. Federal agencies not only
issue regulations to fill in gaps left by legislation, but also supplement those reg-
ulations with “guidance” documents that occupy a unique and often confusing
area between law and “helpful advice.” Unfortunately, wielded by overzealous
enforcement agents, such guidance, some of it even hidden from public view,
morphs into binding law used against unsuspecting employers. Guidance can be
a tricky thing and can be used for good or bad. It should be used to make compli-
cated regulations easier to understand, so that businesses can do their actual jobs
and focus on providing jobs to American workers and value to consumers (really,
compliance assistance). But guidance is often used to create new rules overnight
without following legal requirements—like giving the public an opportunity to
provide valuable input. This wrongful use of guidance hurts workers and those
who employ them. In October 2019, President Trump signed an executive order
ending this abusive practice and created a new, fairer system for American busi-
nesses and their employees. In response, DOL published its PRO Good Guidance
rule,10 which expressly limits its use of guidance in enforcement actions and gives
the public the opportunity to submit comments to influence the department’s deci-
sions on creating, revising, and even rescinding guidance. Under this rule, agencies
cannot treat guidance as legally binding and must make all guidance documents
readily accessible on their searchable online databases. This rule was immediately
rescinded by the Biden Administration.

Exemptions from Regulations for Small Business. Burdensome regulations have
anti-competitive effects. In general, larger, higher-margin businesses are better
able to absorb the costs of regulatory compliance than are small businesses, and
under the Biden Administration, big-business lobbies have affirmatively embraced
certain regulations (such as the COVID vaccine mandate for private employers) to
reduce competition from smaller businesses. Research suggests that labor regula-
tions may pose the highest aggregate regulatory cost for small businesses.


The labor agencies should exercise their available discretion and
duties under the Regulatory Flexibility Act12 to exempt small entities
from regulations where possible.

Congress should enact legislation increasing the revenue thresholds
at which the National Labor Relations Board asserts jurisdiction over
employers to match changes in inflation that have occurred since
1935 and better reflect the definition of “small business” used by the
federal government.

Congress (and DOL, in its enforcement discretion) should exempt
small business, first-time, non-willful violators from fines issued by
the Occupational Health and Safety Administration.


## Education And Vocational Training

Apprenticeships. The next Administration should return to prior policy and
implement an industry-recognized apprenticeship program separate from the
Registered Apprenticeship Program (RAP) and explore how best to modernize,
streamline, and eliminate duplication in the RAP. For roughly 80 years, the RAP—
which requires conforming to government standards and includes federal funding,
tax credits, and other federal resources—has dominated apprenticeship programs
in the U.S. Organizations across the political spectrum have noted that the overly
burdensome requirements of RAPs have contributed to limiting them to legacy
trades, failing to meet growing industry demands such as in health care and tech-
nology. A 2017 study estimated that the number of occupations commonly filled
through apprenticeships could nearly triple (from 27 to 74), that the number of
job openings filled through apprenticeships could expand eightfold (to 3.2 million),
and that the occupations ripe for apprenticeship expansion could offer 20 percent
higher wages than traditional apprenticeship occupations.

The Trump Administration expanded apprenticeship options through the cre-
ation of the Industry-Recognized Apprenticeship Program (IRAP), and more than
130 IRAPs were created. The Biden Administration rescinded the IRAP regulations.


Congress should expand apprenticeship programs outside of the RAP
model, re-creating the IRAP system by statute and allowing approved
entities such as trade associations and educational institutions to
recognize and oversee apprenticeship programs.
In addition, religious organizations should be encouraged to participate
in apprenticeship programs. America has a long history of religious
organizations working to advance the dignity of workers and provide
them with greater opportunity, from the many prominent Christian and
Jewish voices in the early labor movement to the “labor priests” who would
appear on picket lines to support their flocks. Today, the role of religion in
helping workers has diminished, but a country committed to strengthening
civil society must ask more from religious organizations and make sure
that their important role is not impeded by regulatory roadblocks or the
bureaucratic status quo.

Hazard-Order Regulations. Some young adults show an interest in inherently
dangerous jobs. Current rules forbid many young people, even if their family is
running the business, from working in such jobs. This results in worker shortages
in dangerous fields and often discourages otherwise interested young workers from
trying the more dangerous job. With parental consent and proper training, certain
young adults should be allowed to learn and work in more dangerous occupations.
This would give a green light to training programs and build skills in teenagers who
may want to work in these fields.
l
DOL should amend its hazard-order regulations to permit teenage
workers access to work in regulated jobs with proper training and
parental consent.
Workforce Training Grant Program. The federal government spends more
than $100 billion per year subsidizing higher education but close to zero supporting
people on non-college pathways.
l
Congress should create an employer grant worth up to $10,000
per year or pro-rated portion thereof for each worker engaged in


Encourage and enable religious organizations to participate in
apprenticeship programs, etc. Both DOL and NLRB should facilitate
religious organizations helping to strengthen working families via
apprenticeship programs, worker organizations, vocational training,
benefits networks, etc.
on-the-job training, defined as some share of paid time spent in a
formal training program.

To qualify, a program—whether run by the employer, an industry
consortium, a community college, or a union—would need to define program
length, curriculum, career path, and credential and to report regularly on
outcomes for participants. Programs that fail to deliver promised results
would be disqualified from continued funding. Funding for employer grants
should come from existing higher education subsidies that are currently
disadvantaging alternative education options.

Federal “BA Box.” The American labor market continues to experience a glut
of college degrees. The country produces more college graduates than suitable jobs
for them to fill. Meanwhile, employers exacerbate the problem, fueling demand
for college by needlessly requiring degrees for many jobs. In 2020, the Trump
Administration took an important step toward pro-worker, skills-based hiring
practices. Executive Order 13932, Modernizing and Reforming the Assessment and
Hiring of Federal Job Candidates,13 directed the Office of Personnel Management
to reduce degree-based practices in the federal civil service. Maryland’s Governor
Larry Hogan issued an executive order in 2022 to adopt this rule for Maryland state
employees, and Utah’s Governor Spencer Cox in December of 2022 announced
that Utah would do the same. Today, federal civil service job descriptions must
“be based on the specific skills and competencies required to perform those jobs,”
and may prescribe a “minimum educational requirement” only if it is otherwise
legally required. The same policies do not extend beyond the civil service. Federal
agencies continue to require college degrees for contract employees, and federal
contractors are rarely able to place workers without four-year degrees on federal
projects, regardless of their qualifications. Private employers consistently impose
a BA requirement on jobs even when existing workers in the role do not have one.

Adopt the civil service’s skills-based hiring standards for federal
contractors. The President should direct the Administrator for Federal
Procurement Policy to adopt the civil service’s skills-based hiring standards
for federal contractors and issue waivers from degree-based staffing
requirements in existing contracts.
Prohibit the use of a BA requirement in job descriptions. Congress
should prohibit the inclusion of a BA requirement in job descriptions
for all private sector employers, or the use of a BA requirement to screen
applicants using algorithms, except where a BA from a particular type of
institution or in a particular field is a bona fide requirement of the position.
— 596 —Department of Labor and Related Agencies
Alternative View. While the federal government has a duty to promote economy
and efficiency in federal hiring and contracting, and thus should base decisions on
skills as opposed to degrees, it is not the federal government’s role to determine
whether private employers may or may not include degree requirements in job
descriptions and in their hiring decisions. The inappropriate reverence given to
degree requirements is a byproduct of the federal government’s heavy subsidi-
zation of BA degrees. Phasing down federal subsidies would be a better way to
eliminate barriers to jobs for individuals without BA degrees.
Federal Workforce Development Programs. Existing federally funded work-
force development and training programs should be reassessed to ensure they are
outcome-based and truly deliver value to taxpayers and job seekers.
As of 2019, the federal government spent approximately $17 billion annually on
43 federal employment and training programs administered across nine federal
agencies, many of which overlap with at least one other program. Many of these
programs track only inputs or individuals served, not outcomes or outputs, and do
not swiftly identify bad-actor grantees. The federal government should identify
underperforming programs and eliminate or redirect that funding to programs
with strong outcome-based metrics.

Review employment and training programs to ensure outcome-
based metrics. DOL and other federal agencies with jurisdiction over
employment and training programs should review their programs and
utilize all available tools and authority to ensure these programs contain
strong outcome-based metrics. 

To the extent that agencies have this
authority, they should reevaluate funding for programs that do not meet
those evidence-based and outcomes-based requirements. Finally, strong
internal policies should be implemented to ensure bad-actor grantees are
identified and sanctioned expeditiously.

Federal Unemployment Insurance Program. In the post-pandemic land-
scape, the federal government should restore the Unemployment Insurance (UI)
program’s purpose with a particular focus on reestablishing program integrity and
accountability. The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act15


### Evaluate and streamline workforce development programs, ensuringevidence-based outcomes. 

In its reauthorization of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA),14 Congress should evaluate and streamline the existing workforce development programs to ensure there is no overlap or fragmentation between programs. Congress should also ensure strong evidence-based outcomes for each program and tie federal funding for those programs to the outcomes achieved.

unemployment programs were defrauded of hundreds of billions of dollars, including by state-sponsored hacking groups. Not all state agencies are yet through their
backlogs of appeals and fraud cases; the recovery of lost funds has been minimal;

and fraud has now spilled into the traditional UI programs. The CARES Act era drastically altered the entire UI ecosystem: The federal–state partnership shifted
toward federal programs and funding, and the social insurance purpose of the
program was disconnected as benefits were extended, expanded to more typically
uncovered populations, and made exponentially larger.
l
Congress should also develop a framework (through commission of a
congressional report to serve as a blueprint) of technical standards
on broader tech topics like usability, state agency cybersecurity
postures, data taxonomy standardization, and/or identity
verification standards.

Congress should enact bipartisan commonsense UI program reforms,
including statutory authority for the Labor Office of Inspector
General (OIG) to access all state UI records for the purposes of
investigation and requiring state agencies to crossmatch applicants
with the National Directory of New Hires.

Congress should provide DOL with more reasonable enforcement
tools for the UI system. Currently, DOL can either send a strongly worded
letter or revoke the entire Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA)16 tax
credit, which would place an immediate 6 percent to 7 percent tax on all
covered employers.

DOL should review all actual or planned procurements against the $2 billion (under the American Rescue Plan Act)17 for UI fraud detection, accessibility, and equity investments. These funds do not have appropriations timelines and have very minimal statutory descriptions
of the intended purpose. 

DOL should also review and propose changes to improve state monitoring programs including developing evidence-based
frameworks for evaluating the technical readiness and security postures of
the state agencies; strengthen its relationship with the OIG and Government
Accountability Office (GAO), and support continued development of fraud
prosecution with DOJ, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), and
the financial services community; ensure administrative and IT funding is
outcome-based; and gather and publish best practices from state officials,
industry partners, and other vendors who deliver UI services.
