---
heading: Part 4 of New Metaphysics
title: "Glossary"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1987-08-19
icon: Bashar
weight: 123
showdate: true
---


### **Section 8: Glossary**

Alternative lives or alternate lives: Extensions of your soul self, the creation of Personality fragments of a sort that extend themselves into alternate dimensions of reality rather than the one that you relate to as your particular universal time track, although you can have alternative lives in the present time track and you can call them counterparts. 

Archetypal symbology: reflects that there is in your overall conglomerate Mass concept a subconscious level even to that, and what you will find will happen is that when you communicate with this subconscious level of the mass Consciousness, you can form symbols for yourself out of the stuff or energy of the subconscious stream, the archetypal stream, and it will clothe that energy in symbols, beings, objects, situations, relationships, feelings and energies that will represent to you the symbolism of the idea or aspect of the overall Mass Consciousness with which you are communicating.

Balance: knowing that you are all polarities, all dichotomies, all opposites, that you contain the totality of every conceivable imaginary idea of a positive and a negative reality belief system. This will be one of the aspects that creates your artificial construct personality. It will be one of the cornerstones of the prism of the personality. The other two will be emotion and thought. It is what is responsible for the methodology along with the other two ideas of how you choose to exercise your physiological mental Free Will in giving yourself the type of approach to your life that you do. It will be responsible for the creation of your physical reality and the reflection of that reality through your physical senses back to your mentality.

Black hole: a doorway from one dimension of experience to another. On the other side of this will be what you call the white hole where the information comes out. Therefore any passage of information from one level to another of dimensionality will take place through one type or another of a black white hole combination.

Chakra: one of the variations of the black hole theme. It represents the Nexus points of the vibrational energy Matrix that you are as a being, and in this way it represents the doorways, the connection points out of which your energy flow stems to connect to other ideas, other dimensions of reality, and in the physiological sense will represent the doorways, the gateways that this energy of yourself passes through to create and generate the etheric and auric fields and the perception of the 360° physiological reality that you sense.

Channel: anything that will function as a carrier wave so to speak, a carrier idea for another vibration so that it will be able to plug itself into the particular dimensional experience in which the carrier exists.

Clairvoyant: a clear seeing. It represents the ability to simply know that your past, present, future and Alternate realities are all right here and right now and not separated from you, so you allow yourself for whatever particular application to become clear seeing of all that you are. You become transparent to yourself and so does the totality of the universe that you are.

Co-creation: you are creating the idea of another being separate from yourself and therefore whatever you experience as an interaction because you know you create your reality totally and they create their reality totally, then you can say that when you share any common Concepts you are creating a co-creation. You may refer to it as an agreement or a contract.

Collective unconscious mind: represents all that represents the mentality of the entire Mass consciousness of your planetary beingness and can extend even into the archetypal levels. It will be the total sum of the electromagnetic Matrix that gives birth to your mentality in physical reality which is the reflection of the projection of Consciousness into physicality.

Color: represents a particular signature that makes itself differentiated from the homogeneous background of all that is.

Confusion: the fusing with the co-fusing, the removing of yourself from one oriented reality and the ability to scan other possible potential realities that you can be. It is the disorienting of yourself. To us this is not a negative term, it is a natural function of changing the idea of who and what you are. When you place negativism upon the idea then you think that your confusion is something that does not help you grow. It is the natural process of reorienting yourself to the new idea that you wish to become.

Conscious mind: the reference to what you consider to be your mentality, the physiological awareness which contains the ego structure both positive and negative. The ego's purpose is to keep you focused in the physical reality you chose to be focused in. The conscious mind will be the product of the electromechanical chemical stimulations that the Consciousness plays upon the electromotive field, the electromagnetic fluid of physical reality, and will be the product of the interaction of the electromagnetic waves which will give rise to, I'll say, a simulacrum in this way of the Consciousness, a physiological mask or representation of the process that is the Consciousness.

Conglomerate consciousness symbol: this is co-creation on a larger scale. The mass Consciousness has generally agreed upon accepted experience of sharing that represents certain ideas of what it is sharing back to itself through the medium of physical reality.

Conviction: the willingness to simply be who and what you know yourself to be.

Counterpart: this will be as we discuss the idea of an alternate version or projection of the idea of your soul in the same physical time frame. You will perceive it as another physiological being but it may be an extension of the same soul that gives birth to you. It is the same as a past life or a future life but it exists in the same relative time frame as your present life. It is another fragment of the whole soul that you are just as you consider yourself to be.

Creativity: the expression of the knowingness of the all that is that you are.

Crystalline: a definition that will reflect the order or the imposition of a pattern upon the homogeneous energy field that is the basic Foundation out of which physical reality arises. This imposition is the product of your Consciousness upon this field, and thus when things arrange themselves in a sense they become more ordered, more patterned. What you perceive to be crystalline is in your terms the ultimate definition of this imposition, and thus crystals in pure form are so very good as acting as symbols for your ability to communicate with the higher self that does the imposing upon the homogeneous field that creates the organization within the vibrational patterns.

Demonstration: this very closely connected to the idea of conviction. It is the willingness to act as who and what you know yourself to be, the willingness to create impact.

Density: this is a relative term, the amount a vibrational awareness you have of yourself. Now there are in terms of density symbology 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 in the first octave. 
- 1 is the idea of Point Place awareness
- 2 is the idea of line awareness
- 3 is the idea of volumetric awareness. You are in volumetric Awareness now
- 4 is the idea of the containment within
- 5 is non-physical
<!-- - 6 is you as non-physical existence as the dimension itself
- 7  -->

Sixth and seventh also non-physical, but the idea of density in Sixth and Seventh will be that you exist as the dimension itself. You will find therefore that in a description of the levels of awareness of yourself, 

3rd density where you are now will be the first density wherein you can look back upon yourself. As a point, you have no reference to look back. As a line, when you turn around you cannot see exactly where you came from except for the last Point. 

Only in the volumetric experience can you go up and over and look down on yourself and so give yourself the first separation of knowingness. 

In 4th density it will be the ability to look through yourself and see the underlying causes. 

5th density will be the experience of yourself as the dimension.

6th density is the recognition of the many dimensions that you are while still separated to some degree.

7th density is the recognition of yourself as the multi-dimensional experience. 

Then there are octaves beyond that.

Destiny: a reflection of what your overSoul or your higher Consciousness has chosen with its free will to experience as the general events of your life. Because your physiological personality is an artificial construct and subject to the choices in the Free Will of the higher Consciousness, then to the physical Consciousness the Free Will of the higher Consciousness will seem to be irrevocable or destined to happen. But understand that Destiny is only the Free Will of the higher Consciousness, and it is the methodology about how you wish to go about fulfilling that destiny that is the prerogative of the Free Will of the physiological Consciousness.

Dimension: is another perspective of the all that is that you are, the extension of fragments of yourself into a particular phased vibration or variation of the overall homogeneous vibration of all that is. It will be a separation of another total Universe of ideas that will be in sync and parallel and sometimes of a different phase than the dimension of reality that you consider your Universe to be.

Dis-ease: being not at ease with all that you are.

Dissociated or disassociated: one of the mechanisms that can be created in a positive or negative sense to give yourself the perspective of looking at something that you have done from what you consider to be an objective point of view. It is the removal of yourself from a previous perspective while still maintaining a model of that perspective in order to view it from seemingly outside the original perspective.

Dream state: the actual functioning of yourself as the higher Consciousness being more aware of more of yourself. While you are dreaming and are more aware of more of yourself, you are then actually very much more awake as a total being, whereas in physical reality being The Limited State you are very much more locked into the dream. The idea that upon Awakening you remember as the so-called dream is the physiological Consciousness's interpretation of the experience that you had. It is not always necessarily literal in this way, but the physiological Consciousness will choose what symbols it can best make sense of to represent the actual occurrence in the higher conscious dream reality.

Ecstasy: the functioning, the expressing and the creating and the willingness to simply act as the total being you know yourself to be. It is the mechanism and the vibration of unconditional love which gives rise to all of creation.

Electromagnetic field: a variation in the vibration of the homogeneous field of all that is that is utilized to create your mentality.

Emotion: is energy motion. It is the activation of your belief system, the activation principle in the personality construct of belief, emotion and thought.

Energy pattern: is something that stands out from the background of the homogeneous field, something that relates to a specific impression or imposition of the Consciousness that gives rise to the idea of the introduction of order into the homogeneous field.

Entity: the reference to any so-called perceived consolidation of Consciousness whether physical or non-physical.

Evolution: the expansion of the awareness of the self, and it can be non-physical or physically expressed. In physical terms evolution is attached to the idea of a Time Track which allows there to be the appearance of change over time with regard to the new idea you allow yourself to become or that anything allows itself to become. From a non-physical Viewpoint the totality of the idea of the linear evolution is contained within the being simultaneously.

Existence: is that which is, that which always has been, is now and always will be.

Extraterrestrial: something that is outside your particular planetary influence or point of origin.

Fear: one of the emotions that allows you to vibrate at a pitch that has to do with the ego's preservation of the physical body for the Fulfillment of the purpose of being physical. It can be generated in a positive and negative sense. Positive fear will simply be the idea of the physical preservation in this way. Negative fear will be the lack of willingness to know the self.

Feelings: the physicalization of the emotions, the energy motions. It will be the resonations, the harmonies, the synchronizations with the different ideas in your reality. It will be your reflection through the energy portion of the personality construct. It will be the identification of where you stand with regard to other ideas that exist within the overall Universal reality you are in.

Female frequency: the side of the polarity that is creative in terms of going within.

Focus: the fixation or the freezing of any particular idea into a particular crystalline pattern which will limit the awareness of the rest of all that is for the purpose that is being served.

Free Will: the exercising of the chosen purpose whether from the higher conscious level or the physiological level.

Frequency spectrum: there exists within the homogeneousness of the vibration of the foundational all that is an infinite number of patterns and ideas that can be created out of it. Every different idea is separated from every other idea by definition, thus gives rise to the idea of a spectrum, and this spectrum is infinite.
 
Fundamental core: this will have reference to the template, the underlying non-physical idea upon which is overlaid the homogeneous energy field out of which arises everything you know to be physical reality.

Future self: another level of awareness of yourself projected symbolically into the idea of a linear time track, something yet to be achieved. But it exists within you in the present and it is only a reflection of your awareness of the all that is that you are. Every moment of time that you create you are allowing yourself to become that all that is.

Habitual ritual: the forming of patterns of focus in a repetitive cycle that many times the creation of that cycle contains within it the so-called inability to see your way out of that cycle.

Holographic: a reference to the structure, the nature of the idea of the Matrix of the energy of the universe in the sense of that every point in the Universe has the potential to contain the totality of the universe and the potential for any idea, situation or object to exist exists equally at every point in the universe.

Homogeneous: the perception of The Unbroken Oneness of all that is.

Idea: a diversification out of the Oneness. It is the beginning separation. It is the knowing of the self, the first diversification from The Unbroken wholeness, and in and of itself therefore represents a creation which is a real reality.

Illusion: the methodology that you ascribe to the way you experience or express the idea of who and what you are in any Diversified or differentiated reality from the one you recognize to be The Unbroken Oneness. In other words, anything that will be a method that is created for allowing all that is to look at itself will always be a reflection, and Reflections are always in a sense insubstantial.

Imagination: the dimension where the idea of creation and in which the idea of creation takes place.

Incarnation: the projection of Consciousness into physiological reality.

Involution: the creation of an inward cycle and will give rise to an activation mechanism that can then spiral outwards and create the idea of conviction.

Integration: the removal of separation from the different differentiations that have been created out of the Oneness. It will be the creation of the Oneness.

Intimacy: identifying with different levels of ideas. It will be forming a direct identification. It will be the becoming of an idea, the sharing of existence as a co-created idea.

Intuition: a mental reflection or representation in physiological terms of the knowingness that you already are in non-physical terms. It will be a sensing of the purposes and the paths you have chosen to be to allow you to act upon the self you have created yourself to be in physical life.

Karma: an expression of momentum in a particular direction with regard to what the higher self or over Soul wishes to experience of itself. All karma is self-imposed. It is not judgment. It is the recognition of a balance. It is the recognition of an idea that is being lived out, that is being experienced and the choosing of situations that will allow for that experience to occur in physical reality.

Male frequency: the creative expression in an outward sense.

Mathematical equation: a physiological representation of different relationships of the vibratory patterns that occur within the homogeneous Matrix.

Medium: similar to the idea of channel. Mediumship will simply be the practice or the doing so to speak of this idea. Now a medium can also refer to the idea in another sense that again you are forming an atmosphere in which an idea can function.

Metaphysics: that which is outside of or above the physical universe. But in this way in the, I'll say, new definition it will simply be all that is the universe or the Multiverse, and it will be representative of the patterns that are created that give rise to the functions that you perceive that support the idea of any particular Universe.

Methodology: the exercising of the Free Will of the physiological consciousness of the mentality. It is the choice of a particular way or method in which something can be experienced. It will be the creation of a specific scenario. Now understand it is very close to the idea of experimentation, and when you design the experiment or design the methodology then it will give rise to a particular conclusion and this will serve the purpose of the Consciousness.

Momentum: that sense of progress. It will be the sensing of the energy of expressive creation. It will be the understanding of the unfoldment of the idea you have chosen to be.

Multi-dimensional: a diversification within once again the homogeneous Oneness, simply representing large if you will sections of the total idea to exist as differentiated universes. It is simply the recognition of the differentiated universes that gives rise to the term multi-dimensional.

Mythic pattern: representats the archetypal energy playing a part in reflecting some of the habitual rituals of the mass Consciousness as they are agreeing to play these ideas out.

Mythology: the creation of the symbols that will reflect the interaction of the outer aware Consciousness with the sub Mass Consciousness and the archetypal energy. It is the language that is used to form that interaction.

Natural law: the recognition of the energy patterns which Define or describe any particular idea of the universe that you are partaking of.

Paradox: the expression of polarity, the creation of a seeming discrepancy or a dichotomy that will always let you know that you contain both sides of any idea, of any issue, and that therefore you are at the center of all creation and that both are Blended within some level of your Consciousness as one homogeneous unbroken whole. It is one of the definitions of physical reality so there can be the experiencing of space time, separation and limitation.

Past selves: the recognition of another portion of your overall Consciousness placed into the reference of a Time Track where you create the idea of a before, a now and an after. It is a way of separating the portions of your Consciousness so once again to create the idea of being able to be outside of the rest of yourself and regard yourself from that unique perspective.

Personality construct: the tool that you consider the personality or the person to be. The personality not being who or what you are but an artificial tool so to speak of the higher consciousness of the overs soul that serves the purpose of being, I'll say, the representative symbol that the overs Soul uses to interact with physical reality or interact as the idea of physical reality. It is the Diplomat or representative of the soul in physical reality.

Perspective: the creation that you can have a separated Viewpoint within the homogeneous whole and therefore the expression of the fragmentation of the Consciousness through that particular facet.

Philosophy: the recognition or the expression of the homogeneousness itself of the interconnectedness itself but still being expressed in a separated way.

Polarity: the energy that represents the ability or the symbology to recognize positive and negative energy within the physical Universe.

Preference: the identification of the idea that you are willing to be. It will be differentiated from judgment because preference will be not an invalidation of all ideas that you are not but simply a recognition of the idea that you are.

Process: the unfoldment of your purpose relative to a Time Track. In other words, you think that the unfoldment takes time, so you consider the momentum of the unfoldment to be a process, something which takes time.

Psychic energies: a resonation, a synchronization and a harmonization with that electromagnetic energy that represents the energy that gives rise to the mass conscious mentality. Therefore once tapped into that level you can Channel or funnel through the artificial personality construct that specific representative idea of your portion so to speak or your, I'll say, version of all that is known within the knowledge Banks of any one civilization or overs Soul idea that contains many civilizations or consciousnesses.

Psychology: the interaction with the mental field of the artificial personality construct.

Observer: the creation of the point of view of being outside of something.

Opportunity: a situation or the vibration that reflects your willingness to know yourself as an automatic Creator and attract to yourself the reality that represents the path you have created a willingness to be. Thus it is a situation that you have created that you can act upon that will allow your momentum to continue in the direction you have chosen to continue it.

Overlapping: another way of stating the idea of shared or co-created realities.

Oversoul: a greater fragmentation of all that is but it itself will have the fragmentations of all the various physical lives that you perceive yourselves to be.

Quark: the physiological representation, the symbolic representation of the basic foundational component of the vibrational idea of matter.

It is the first step on the other side of the doorway of non-physical physicalness. It will be the first step on the physical side that reflects the vibrational Matrix of what we call the template equation on the non-physical side and will reflect the idea once again of the binary Arrangement that Consciousness creates within itself so as to always support itself within a volumetric frame of reference.

Reality: an idea being expressed and experienced.

Reflection:  one of the methodologies that you can create to experience and express a particular Reality by creating separation. Reflection will be a reminder back to the self of what the self has created.

Reincarnation: the idea of being Many Lives, many physiological personality constructs in a linear Time Track, whereas outside of the time track reincarnation is or, I'll say, all incarnations are simultaneous.

Relationships: the idea of separating yourself from the idea you are creating to the point where you see the polarities that are created by the relationship itself. Relationship is what you are, but you create so-called observers on either end of this relationship so as to be able to view the idea of yourself as a relationship from a polarized point of view.

Religion: the creation of ritual that is a separation from the doing of the idea and more an adherence to the following of what someone else does.

Responsibility: the sense of innate connection to the agreements that you have created to experience in your reality. It will be the acting upon those connections.

Science: the formalized creation of a process, one of the methodologies for viewing the self, one of the methodologies for recognizing the vibrational patterns of energy that are differentiated out of The Unbroken Oneness.

Second density: the expression again in linear terms of the idea of Consciousness that does not need to think about itself but simply acts from an ingrained instinct.

Self-empowerment: the recognition of the self as all that is and the acting upon that principle in the expression of any reality that is created consciously from that premise, knowing that you create it all.

Separation: forgetting that you created all or creating a reality in which you can forget that you created all.

Sin: a judgmental idea. It will be a value placed upon the expression of negative energy or the expression of an energy that one individual does not feel represents the reality they understand to be their own.

Spiral energy: a reflection of the energy motion of the mass Consciousness. It will spiral as you put it to act as that symbol to give rise to the idea of a self-perpetuating energy.

Spirit guide: the recognition of aspects of Consciousness whether you consider them to be extensions of yourself or not that will be Reflections in a non-physical sense of the ideas you have chosen to experience in the physical plane.

Spirituality: the conviction and the willingness to know that you operate and function on many different levels and the maintenance of the Integrity that goes along with that knowingness.

Subconscious mind: one of the differentiations in the overall physiological Consciousness along with unconscious mind. Simply separations into which you can place certain symbolical representations of the idea of yourself so that you do not immediately have to become aware of them, but it is also an opportunity for these ideas to interact in ways that will serve the timing of your physical life and the methodology or the timing of the creation of the idea of forgetfulness in that physical life so that the remembering of the self can come from somewhere that would not be immediately obvious so as to give you the ability to forget.

Superconscious mind: this is full participation on a physiological level of the electromagnetic connection of the total of the mass conscious Awareness.

Symbol: the reflection of the idea that you are.

Synchronicity: the representation through the idea of coincidence not in an accidental sense. It will be a representation of the way linear reality or Time Track reality can best represent the simultaneousness of all that is. It will allow events to occur within the quickest possible time frame and will reflect unfoldment in a conscious sense. For unfoldment in a conscious sense is radial in nature and is aware of all the Petals of its unfoldment simultaneously.

Synergy: the expression of the geometric progression of co-creation. It will be the representation of the idea that the whole is greater than the sum of the parts, that a Third identity is created out of any other two that is something different from the simple addition of the original two.

Telepathy: the linking or identification with in the electromagnetic field and the, I'll say, mimicking or modeling of another particular electromagnetic pattern that is represented by another being so as to identify or sense the aspects of the artificial personality that exist within that construct or each construct at any given moment.

Template: the representation of the foundational expression upon which any particular reality derives its existence and from which any particular reality derives its shape in an overall sense.

Tetrahedron: the expression of the simplest possible volumetric idea that can exist in your dimension.

Third density: the further expression of this volumetric the idea of being able to look back upon yourself to have removed point of view and in this way will be seen to be an extension of the function of the basic tetrahedral symbology in the nature of how the third density is constructed symbolically within the mentality or the overall mental Consciousness.

Thought: the third aspect of the prism that forms the artificial personality construct of belief, emotion and thought, and will represent the ability to create the seemingly outside perspective of what reality the belief creates or, I'll say, holds up for creation and that the emotion puts into activity. It will be the facility that enables there to be outside observation of the reality that is created.

Time Track reality: any reality in which there exists the concept of linear time as you understand it in third dimensionality.

Transmission: the recognition of identification from one supposed Consciousness or idea to another within a Time Track or time space framework. The idea that it must take time to get from there to here, the creation in and of itself of the concepts of exchange of information between the concept of a there and a here, even though it is the same event outside of space and time and no traveling of or through space and time is necessary.

Trans-psychic reality: an expression of allowing there to be a blending between different densities of experience that include more than one mental plane or electromagnetic awareness of the mentality of any particular Universe. It is functioning psychically in many dimensions of the self and many alternate realities of the self.

Ternary: the expression of the principle of support that expresses the least volumetric necessary, the least mathematical expression necessary to create any idea of a complete unit in your third dimension.

Trust: the activation mechanism and principle which is reflective of the expression of your willingness to know that you know what you are.

Truth: a reflection of the purposes you have chosen to focus upon in any particular reality, and any ultimate truth is the product of all of the personal truths that exist within any one reality.

Unconditional love: the expression of the energy that is the supporting foundation of the reality in which you exist. It is the vibration that gives rise to the validity of all that has been created within creation.

Unconscious mind: a separation out of the Consciousness along with the subconsciousness that will give rise to the specific purpose of being able to have experiences that are in a sense aside from the ones that you have in the physical reality that can still serve the purpose of the physical reality but not include themselves in the time track of the physical reality so that the focus in one sense or perspective as it has been chosen to be experienced can remain untouched. It is like the creation of a parallel mentality.

Unified field: the willingness to recognize that everything is an expression of one unbroken idea and that everything is a diversification and a differentiation out of that Oneness. It is a recognition of the Oneness out of which all is created.

Vibration: the expression of the impingement of Consciousness upon the homogeneous field that creates physical reality or that is created to create physical reality.

It is a reflection of the ability to create distinct or as your physicists say discontinuous reality so as to have the ability to create many different ideas of reality that can interact in the same basic Universe while not necessarily occupying the same time frame or space referential point. It creates the idea of being able to be out of phase with something else so as not to interfere with it so that it can be a parallel reality existing in the same basic referential place and time but not experienced to be doing so.


