---
heading: Part 1
title: "1-3-5-7-11 A Refresher Course"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2020-07-18
icon: Bashar
weight: 1416
showdate: true
---



Passing through the eye of the needle strips away those fear-based negative beliefs that don't serve you.

This lets you streamline yourself and get through this passage more easily to come out the other side relatively soon.

Use the tools at your disposal, so that when you do come out the other side you will be more prepared to apply these understandings to your life.

These tools to be more effective after you have stripped away ideally some or all of the fear-based beliefs within you as you accelerate forward on the other side of this passage.

## 1-3-5-7-11

### 1. Everything is one.

Everything is made of one thing. There is nothing else to make anything from. There is no outside to it. There is no beginning to it. There is no ending to it. 

What we are referring to is existence itself. 

It is what is, and it can never become what is not. That is not its quality. 

That which exists cannot become that which does not exist, because non-existence by definition doesn't exist. 

That's its quality: to not exist. So that which exists, which you are a part of because you exist, is worthy of its existence on the fact that it exists and no other reason is required to know that you are necessary and needed and worthy of being a part of existence, or you wouldn't exist. You are needed for all that is to be all that is.

As the one then begins to reflect within itself, it splits into positive and negative energy.

It mechanically either integrating or separating, accelerating or decelerating, raising frequency or lowering frequency.

This forms a spectrum of frequencies, a spectrum of perspectives, abilities. 


### 3. Trinity

But it doesn't jump from one to two. It jumps from one to three.

This is because the line that splits them is a third component. 

Thus existence, when it splits that way, when it reflects to itself, is a trinity automatically.

This is because the line is the balance point between what appears to be the two opposites of positive and negative, light and dark. 

That line is always there and, as we have mentioned, forms a third component that gives the energy of existence a slightly positive bent more than negative. Because in the positive side you are free to choose. 

You know you are free to choose. 

You are conscious and aware of the idea that you belong, that you're a part of all that is. And the center line, the balance point between the two, still allows you the freedom to know, the freedom to be aware that you have the ability to choose what you prefer. 

Whereas when you start dipping into the negative side, that awareness can begin to be experienced as diminished: becoming less aware that you have the freedom to choose, less aware that your belief systems are creating your reality.

Therefore, because the balance point still offers you the opportunity to choose and have awareness of your choice in a positive way, existence is slightly, ever so slightly, more positive than negative. 

And so if you do nothing but allow yourself to drift in the flow of creation, the flow of existence, you will ultimately be pulled by the current of existence back into the positive side as long as you don't resist it, as long as you don't fight against it. So take advantage of the percentage of the trinity as the one becomes the three, in going with the flow of the current of creation itself, and you will always at the very least, if nothing else, be in the balance point in the center that will allow you the freedom to be aware that you can choose what you prefer in life.

And then going from the three, you become aware and remember that the description from that point forward in your reality of existence itself, the structure of it, the definition of it, is defined from our perspective as what we call the five laws of existence.

### 5. The Five Laws

1. You exist.

There is nothing you can do to change that, because again as we have said, existence cannot become non-existent. You may change your form, but you cannot cease to exist as the unique perspective of existence that you are. So when we say you exist, not only are we saying that you exist, but we're saying your unique perspective, whatever makes you you, the reflection of all that is that you are, that you consider to be yourself, your identity, your beingness, exists.

Always has and always will from a temporal point of view, but time is subject to existence. Existence is not subject to time. Therefore it's more than you having always existed, more than the idea that you will always exist. It simply is that you exist now, and now is all there is. So you just exist. That's your fundamental quality. You exist. That can never change. That's a description of the fundamental quality, the structure of the one, of existence itself.

2. Everything is here and now.

Time and space are creations within existence. They are illusions within existence. Everything is here and now. Everything is completely accessible to you that is relevant for you to access for the you that you are, for the reflection of all that is that you are experiencing yourself to be right now. Everything is accessible here. Everything is accessible now. You don't have to reach to anywhere else or any other time in order to attract what it is that you truly need. It's all right here. It's all right now. And you will experience, if you go with the flow of your true being, whatever it is that's relevant for you to experience will manifest, because it's all here right now and simply becomes visible to you.

3. The one is the all and the all are the one

You are like in a house of mirrors, a combination and a collection of unique reflections of all that is. Everyone is connected, interlinked. You can access what you need from everyone else, and everyone is a reflection for you in life to guide you, to allow you to understand what it is that you can choose from as options and opportunities, so that you each support each other in being more of who you are, and in so doing start to recognize the connections between all of you, not only the similarities but also the differences. And by validating the differences, if every one of those differences is true to the person expressing them, then you create harmony and unity in the whole, even as you create the experience of harmony and unity for the individualized aspects that each and every one of you are as reflections of the infinite.


4. As a reflection, what you put out is what you get back.

You can guide yourself by understanding that what comes back to you, what you experience in your reality, is there to guide you, to allow you the freedom to choose whether or not you want to continue with those kinds of experiences or whether you wish to change them to something that you prefer, that's more in alignment with who you are. So what you put out is what you get back, because there really is no outside. It's just like a mirror reflection. The reflection in a sense isn't really over there. You are not over there. You are here. You are now. The reflection reminds you that you are here and now, and what you see in the reflection is what you're putting out. So if you prefer something different, change the vibrational state of the you that you are, and you will see a different reflection.

Now, because you have the experience of the illusion of time and space, you may see a little bit of a time lag before the manifestation changes. And that's all right, because again remember the point is: you're not really basing the change you're making on whether the outside changes. You are changing because that's what you prefer, and you're not making the change conditional on whether the outside looks different. But understanding that the true measure of change is that you decide what you prefer to be, what state of being you prefer to be in, no matter what the outside looks like, because then you're not making the change conditional on the outside having to look different. It will look different when you truly change. But at first you might test yourself and see if you really have changed by seeing if you're still responding or reacting the same way to something that still looks the same. Because if you are responding or reacting the same way you used to that you don't prefer to, then you haven't changed, so why should the outside look any different at all? The idea is that you respond differently even if the outside still looks like it did, because that's the true measure of you deciding that you have changed regardless of what's going on in the reflection, the illusion outside of you. And if you do that, then you will see that the changes will be reflected back to you, but there may be a little bit of a time lag.


5. Everything changes except the laws themselves. 

In other words, you are experiencing a structure that never changes, but your relationship to it, your relationship with it, your experience of it, your perspective of it—that's what changes. That's what allows existence to experience the concept that you call growth and expansion. But the structure itself has never changed. It is what it is, and everything you experience as a difference is simply another perspective of the same structure, the same moment, the here and now, from another point of view that you create within your consciousness, so that your relationship changes to it, your experience of it changes, even though the structure never does.

These are the five laws: you exist; everything is here and now; the one is the all and the all are the one; what you put out is what you get back; and everything changes except the structure of the laws themselves, which are the very definition of existence from our perspective.


### 7. Seven Basic Needs

The seven represents your needs to survive and thrive in your reality experience.

If every single one of these needs is fulfilled, you will have a life of joy and fulfillment. 

We talk about needs as opposed to wants, because wants can sometimes be the ego's desire to have something it may not actually need, that it thinks it needs but doesn't really, in order for it to experience the state of being that it prefers. So we simply focus on the concept that if you actually get everything you need in life, truly need in life, you will have a life of fulfillment and joy. The things you need to allow yourself to continue to experience the reality that you are experiencing right now again are simple and basic, and are determined by how quickly you would leave the physical experience if you didn't have them. In other words, you would die. And the quicker you die is the more basic the need.

So the first basic need of the seven is simply that you need air. You need to breathe. And as long as you are capable of allowing yourself to continue to breathe, you will not only survive but you have the potential to thrive.

Next, you need water for your physicality, because you are mostly made of it. You need to keep yourself lubricated and so you can flow in your reality more easily. So water is the second basic need.

Now you need sleep. You need to reconnect. Once you have air, once you have water, you need to reconnect to the idea of your spirit in non-physical reality. And in about 11 days or so, give or take, without sleep, without connecting, without dreaming, without making that recharging of the battery of your soul and spirit to maintain the concept of your physical perspective, again you would find yourself deteriorating mentally. You would find yourself deteriorating in many different ways, losing the idea of your focus, losing the idea so to speak of the experience of the desire to continue to live. You would find yourself going quite insane and not being able to focus in physical reality, at least not the one that you chose. And you would find yourself heading down the hill toward the idea of physical death.

After sleep comes the idea of food, because you can actually last longer without food as long as you have air and water than you can without sleep. So the idea then is sustenance going into your body to maintain yourself, to survive and thrive. These are the first four basics: the idea of air, water, sleep, and food.

Now we switch gears a little bit into things that you won't necessarily immediately die from if you don't have them right away, but they may create what would be experienced as a kind of diminishing of the spirit, a diminishing of the soul, a diminishing of the desire to thrive, a feeling of disconnection if you don't allow these things to come into your life. And the first one is the idea that we will loosely title "shelter." Now this doesn't necessarily mean you have to have a physical building to shelter in. It could just be an environment that is conducive to you thriving, because there are outdoor environments on your planet that many people live in that are very conducive to their not only survival but being able to thrive in that environment. So as long as it is conducive and compatible with the idea of your life form and allows you to experience a thriving in that environment, it can be an outdoor environment, it can be a shelter. But some form of compatible environment is also necessary for you to continue in your physical reality experience.

And then the idea of relationship or connection is the sixth idea. You must allow yourself to feel connected or having a relationship with something. It doesn't necessarily have to be a physical human person. It can be an animal, it can be a tree, it can be the cosmos, it can be all that is. But it is important for you, it is critical for you, to have some kind of sense of connection and relationship to the reflection of existence itself in some expression, no matter what that is. And that will allow you to continue to feel that you are connected, that you can access what you need to bring it into your life to manifest it from the here and now, and that allows you to continue to thrive and survive in your reality experience.

7. True self-expression, creative expression

Being yourself and putting it out into the world, allowing yourself to truly express who you are, to not hold back, to not let fear-based beliefs diminish your ability to act on the idea of your passion.

