---
heading: Part 1
title: "This and That"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2011-08-27
icon: Bashar
weight: 622
showdate: true
---



# Bashar Transmission: This and That – The Spectrum of Reflection

**Bashar:** The following information that we shall title: **"This and That,"** which shall be subtitled: **"The Spectrum of Reflection."**

We have many times in our Transmissions to you talked about the state of being that we find many of you have been operating in for many, many years based on certain belief systems that you have been taught, based on certain definitions that you have been brought up with. Based on these beliefs and definitions that you apply to many given situations in your lives, that you will more often than not, based on these beliefs, look at situations and apply to them "this or that." You will see things as "this or that," as "that or this."

When in most situations you would actually find greater benefit and greater understanding and greater facility in transforming the situations into the effects that you prefer by addressing the situation from the perspective of **"this and that."** Because all things exist at once. And even though we understand that by having a certain frequency, by having a certain definition, that you will experience one thing or another, we are not attempting in this understanding to eliminate the idea that you are experiencing one thing at a time. However, in many circumstances, within the thing you are experiencing, within the situation that you are experiencing, it actually does not help you to further break down that experience into a "this or that" situation. Because when you do, you are not allowing yourselves the benefit of the unifying principle of the positive and constructive energies and states of being that would give you an understanding of how to allow the circumstance to serve you in a positive way.

Because by addressing it, by receiving it, by viewing certain circumstances and certain options within circumstances, and as you view certain qualities within certain circumstances as a "this or that" situation, you create and set up for yourselves a dichotomy, a polarity, a conundrum that does not allow you a holistic, big picture view of the circumstances to a degree that would allow you to understand how to transform things into the effects that you desire, into the effects that you prefer. By breaking down certain circumstances into "this or that" situations, you limit yourselves and create negative energies, negative states of being that allow you to become confused and caught up in certain kinds of repeating loops.

Because on one hand, the higher mind will sense that everything is a "this and that" circumstance—that you always have the option of accessing any and all opportunities within any given scenario—while the physical mind, limited by certain belief systems and definitions that you've bought into that are not aligned with your preferred self, that are not aligned with your true vibration, will perceive things in this puzzling, paradoxical, shall we say, polarity, polarized kind of way where it can only be one way or another. 

Thus then preventing yourselves from being capable of seeing and experiencing a much broader perspective, a much bigger point of view, and limiting the options Available to You by assuming that if one thing is "this," that it can only be "this," and "that"—it cannot contain the other.

This is where you begin to learn how to use Paradox in its most beneficial form and not in its negative form. How you learn to balance polarity in its most positive way and not experience the results of the negative interpretation. "This or that" perspective will only allow you The Limited ability to perceive whatever opportunities, doorways, whatever, shall we say, options are available to you that are connected to the thing that you are focusing on, and will not allow you to experience the opportunities that are available to you with its polarity, with its polar opposite. 

By eliminating the connective energy of **"and"** and by thus then focusing only on "or" circumstances, in an "or" mentality, a "this or that" mentality, you truly prevent yourselves from expanding your Consciousness and from seeing things from a broader point of view, a broader perspective. And you actually shut the doors through which different Inspirations, different imaginings, different perspectives could come to you because you are not being inclusive; you are being exclusive.

Expansion of consciousness is the product of inclusivity, not exclusivity. Many people on your planet, when they begin to learn certain spiritual and metaphysical principles, will actually take an old-style route, an old-style approach to the idea of absorbing and learning about these metaphysical principles, and will actually contradict their ability to truly absorb these principles in the most positive way by thinking that as they expand or explore the further reaches of their Consciousness, that certain other things ought not to occur. 

That it's got to be either "this or that." In other words, if you are in your mind sometimes believing that you are exploring the idea of the expansion of your Consciousness, you often set up ultimatums within yourself: "Well, if I am experiencing the idea of the expansion of consciousness, then I have to experience it in a certain way. And if I experience it in another way that might be more reminiscent of the way things used to be, then something is wrong. I'm not expanding." It's a "this for that" ultimatum. I either experience "this" or I experience "that," and there can be no blending of the two. 

There can be no meeting of the minds, there can be no blending or melding of these ideas because from the perspective you have set up, from the perspective you have created, there is an exclusivity issue and there is only room for one thing and not room for another, and both cannot coincide, Co-habit the same space at the same time.

Nevertheless, they actually do, in a manner of speaking, since all things exist now. In reality, even though different frequencies of things may make them appear to be exclusive or excluded, on the fundamental level they all exist in exactly the same space at exactly the same time. Everything that exists exists now. It is "this and that" and "that and that" and "that and that" and "that and that" and "that and that" and "that and that" and "that" now.

Granted, certain expressions of "this and that" may be more or less relevant to what you immediately need to experience. And again, we are not eliminating the idea of focus in this. We're not talking about the idea that you must somehow experience such a multitude of things all at once that you become confused and befuddled. It's not what we're saying. We understand that because of your linear space-time reality, you are going to experience things one at a time. And in that context, yes, you are using the idea of exclusivity and focus and limitation to your benefit to keep you focused in a certain experience and have no other experience that interferes with it. But that's not what we're saying.

The "this and that" that we're referring to is that within any One exclusive, given experience, there are still a number of ways to view that experience more holistically, with a broader perspective and a broader understanding that allows you the opportunity to examine all possible options that are relevant to that single experience. It's just that when you use the mechanism of limitation and exclusivity to help you focus through the ego structure on a single experience, you often, out of habit, unconsciously continue to apply the same exclusive principle within the single experience. And that's where you often create difficulty and negative limitation for yourselves because you think you have to continue the same process that brought you that single experience—that limited your focus down to that single experience—in order to get the full understanding of that experience. And that's where the true positive Paradox comes in.

Once you have focused down in a manner that creates or attracts to you a particular single experience at any given moment, in truly understanding what that experience is all about and how you can use it to maximum effect and maximum benefit, you actually have to expand back out. Expand your focus back out, broaden your focus back out within that single experience in order to fully benefit and fully extract from that single experience all of the things it has to teach you, all the opportunities it has to provide for you, all the doorways it has to offer you to open for you, to allow you to truly have a full experience of that single event.

This is where balance comes into play: balancing the energies of limitation and expansiveness in a very, very playful, very open way that will allow you to focus when you need to, allow you to be exclusive when you need to, allow you to use limitation when you need to to benefit yourself, while at the same time allow you to use the expanded point of view, the holistic and holographic point of view within that single experience to reap the benefit of everything that that single experience has to offer to you. Again, this is the point of power in Paradox: is learning that it's **"this and that."**

And here we see a perfect example of using the idea of exclusivity and inclusivity simultaneously in a "this and that" scenario instead of a "this or that" scenario. It is thus then an art form, in a sense, to learn how to focus down and expand out. Focus down and expand out. This is similar to what we have spoken of with regard to the idea of visualization and manifestation. Visualization and manifestation in the sense that in visualization you are focusing on an image, bringing it down to a particular specific, exclusive, representative image of the reality you prefer. And once the energy builds up, the excitement builds up as a result of that particular symbolic visualization, thus then the idea is to just hold on to the energy State and let the vision go and expand back out into a completely non-focused state of being. In a sense, surrendering the vision, as you say, and no longer insisting that that particular Vision has to come true in order for the accurate and appropriate and relevant manifestation to occur. Because as we have said, the higher mind knows how something is truly going to happen, but the physical mind does not. So in letting go of that limiting, specific, symbolic visualization and just allowing the energy to remain, you are thus then expanding back out into the idea of letting the higher mind bring you whatever the actual representation, whatever the actual manifestation is, of the energy state that the visualization generated within you reflected to you.

So it is a similar idea, similar art form of focus and letting go, focus and expansion, that we are talking about now with the idea of the "this or that" and the "this and that" situation and scenario. "This or that" brings you down to the idea of a state of being where it does not seem that other routes are possible to allow manifestations to occur, to allow things to transform. While "this and that" is always allowing, always leaving an opening for something to occur that is unexpected, always allowing you to examine and explore more options and more opportunities that you may not have previously been able to consider.

Because again, remember the other principle that we have talked about: is that you cannot perceive the vibration of something you don't already contain. First, you have to be on a certain wavelength in order to perceive the things that are relevant to that frequency. And if you allow yourself only the "this or that" scenario, the "this or that" limiting Focus within any particular individual scenario, then you are truly making it very, very difficult, very improbable, that you will be capable of seeing other avenues, other routes, other opportunities that you could take in order to manifest certain states of being. But when you approach this single event, any single event at any given moment that you have created with your positive limitation, your positive exclusivity, and thus bring into that positive exclusive moment the expanded point of view of "this and that"—that there are many ways to allow this to manifest, many different routes by which this could manifest—then you will allow yourself the ability to actually perceive those opportunities, to perceive those doorways, to have The Inspirations come into your imagination from the higher mind that allow you the ability to see what the path actually needs to be to allow the manifestation that is reflective of the energy State you are creating in that single eventful moment, allowing the manifestation that is truly representative of that energy to manifest.

And again, please remember: manifestation is not attracting something to you from somewhere else. Everything already exists right here, right now. You already, in a sense, have it. You already, in a sense, *are* it. Manifestation is simply being in the energy state that allows you to be able to perceive, to make visible to you, what is already here that is now invisible to you. But you all already contain it. You already already have it. It doesn't come from somewhere else. That's why it's so important to watch the definitions and start transforming all the definitions that are part and parcel of the "this or that" scenario into "this and that" kind of energy. So that you can start realigning your definitions, such as has this definition we have just discussed of manifestation. Because when you operate from a "this or that" perspective, it creates the idea of separation and thus creates the idea that, well, something is either here or it's not; it's over there or it's not. Instead of understanding that it may appear to be there and it is also here. You need to start linking, unifying these kinds of definitions within any given individual scenario, within any individual given Concept, in order to really begin to understand how to simplify your relationship with creation and help you understand the nature and structure of existence: in that everything is one thing and every moment is one moment.

So when you understand it from that point of view, it's no longer "this or that," it's **"this and that."** Everything is there and everything is here. Everything is here and everything appears to be there. It's all the same idea; it's just a different perspective. And by having the "this and that" perspective, it will allow you to understand that it will allow you to see the bigger picture that includes all of those positions, all of those descriptions, all of those definitions that work for you, instead of the "this or that" scenario that starts excluding other definitions as being impossible, improbable, not capable of actually occurring, not capable of being relevant, and not capable of being perceived by you as another way to look at the nature and structure of your event as it is framed against the nature and structure of existence itself.

We will assume that at least some of what we are saying is clear. And we will assume that if any of what we are saying is not clear, you will attract whatever you need to understand it more clearly through the synchronicity in your life. Because you know that even though there may be only certain things you know now, you will know more in the next moment and the moment after that that you have created because it's all the same moment and contains all the information all right here, all right now, all accessible to you when you allow yourself to be in the moment. You will thus then perceive more of what already exists in the moment. **"This and that."**

Now let us discuss this art form, this Balancing Act, from a completely different point of view, a completely different analogy. And hence the subtitle: **"The Spectrum of Reflection."** The analogy and hence the subtitle "The Spectrum of Reflection" leads to the idea of reflection. And when we talk about the idea of spectrum, let us truly use the terminology in this analogy that has to do with the idea of frequency and vibration as it relates to the visible spectrum of light that you are so familiar with in your physical reality experience. What you call the Rainbow, what you call that Spectrum, what you call those colors, primary and secondary, that make up all of your experiences in perceptibility in the Physical Realm in terms of your vision, in terms of your sight. Let us use this analogy as a permission slip, as a tool. Permission slips simply being any tool, any technique, any ritual that allows you to give yourself permission to be more of who you are. This permission slip, this "spectrum of reflection" permission slip, we now simply share as an analogy to appeal, shall we say, to different parts of your brain, different ways in which many of you absorb information and lock it in and make it real for yourselves.

Imagine if you will now, in any way, shape, or form that works for your imagination, the idea of what you call the three primary colors of light: red, blue, green. Yes, I know some of you say, "Wait a minute, isn't it red, blue, yellow?" In pigment it is, but in light it is red, blue, and green. We will not get into why at the moment; that's another discussion. Nevertheless, you understand that as prisms exist in your reality and you see the white light, The Unbroken light, coming through that prism and breaking down into the Spectrum: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, violet. You understand that by recombining those individual colors, those individual frequencies, you can once again blend them back into white light, which contains all frequencies of light. That's why it appears to be white to your senses.

So let's look at this idea of the balancing the focus from this colorful perspective. Imagine thus then that you have this white light that represents the idea, shall we say, of the ideal self, the higher mind, unbroken, unfiltered, pure, pure, beautiful, a homogeneous white light. As thus then it is filtered through the prism of your personality with its beliefs and its emotions and thoughts, it is broken down into the spectrum of your physical reality experience and all the details within it. But for now, in this analogy, we will keep it simple and just work with the idea of the three primary colors: the red, the blue, the green.

Now, as many of you already know, when you start to overlap these colors—if you will imagine perhaps spotlights or Circles of these colors—if you start to overlap some of them, you will get the secondary colors. If you overlap the idea of the red with the blue, you will get the Violet. If you overlap the idea of the red and the green, you will get the orange. If you overlap the idea of the blue and the green, you will get the yellow. And of course, in pigment, if you mix the idea of the blue and the yellow, you will get green. But going back to the light:

Imagine thus then that if you were to bring these three Circles of color closer and closer and closer together, and as you start to see these circles intersect with each other, creating what you call the vesica piscis of the secondary colors of the Violet and the yellow and the orange. You will thus then, as the circles come closer and closer together, recognize that when they finally touch—all three touch in the center—they will blend back into the idea of white because you have now included all the frequencies within that Spectrum, within that rainbow, and they will blend back to White.

So now imagine that as this white light originally starts out from the higher mind and filters itself through the prism of your personality and creates these primary colors of red and blue and green, that in each primary color there are nearly an infinite number of shades of red, an infinite number of shades of blue, an infinite number of shades of green. Some of them may seem to be very subtle differences, some of them may be very profound differences. And of course, some of this has to do again with the idea of mixing these three colors, these three primaries, in different ratios so that you're bringing in the secondary vibrations to create the different shades. But what we can focus on here is the idea that as these three primaries—red, blue, and green—exist and exist in different shades, it is the different subtle shading that, when brought together and overlapped in the center, will not exactly create white, but will create a shading of white, an off-white, perhaps even all the way down to a dull gray and maybe even a black.

The idea being that when the three primary vibrations of red, blue, and green, altered, shaded, tinted by different ratios of the secondary vibrations, they will, when coming together, not actually completely reconstitute the original white light. In this analogy, these shadings are different belief systems that are out of alignment with your true self, not in alignment with the pure frequency of your true being. When your beliefs are in alignment and these Spectra are in their pure vibratory frequencies, then when combined they will recreate that pure white light. But if there are definitions within you that are creating these colors to be tinted and shaded in ways that takes them out of their primary frequency, then when you combine them, when you attempt to combine them, you will find that you will not get the Pure White Light. You will be off kilter, off frequency, off the vibration of your true natural self.

As is being given to you as a guidepost from the higher mind, that pure white light is your guidepost, your marker for the vibration that represents your true natural self. So as we have discussed many times, the idea of the vibration that is representative of your true natural self in terms of a bodily enactment being what you call excitement, passion, love, creativity, Joy. The idea here is that we are now creating a color analogy of this idea. And since we have also talked about the fact that definitions and beliefs that are out of alignment with your true self will dampen down the idea of the excitement, will filter the excitement into what you call fear and self-doubt, here too in this analogy you will see that the filters of beliefs that are out of alignment will alter the pure vibrational colors of the primaries into different tints and shades so that when they combine they will not create the pure white light.

So the idea here is to use this analogy, to use this permission slip tool as a visual guide to Aid and assist you in finding out, in discovering and exploring and researching and investigating what your belief systems are all about. Because if you understand that the Pure White Light of the higher mind is in a sense your guidepost—that's what you're attempting to match the frequency of by acting on your excitement—using this spectrum analogy, this prism analogy, this reflective Spectra permission slip, you may actually begin to get the sensation in a more refined way, in a more finely tuned way, of whether or not you are harboring definitions and beliefs that are out of alignment with your true self by actually looking at the tints and the shades of the three primary colors and seeing whether they are truly, truly pure and in bringing them together where they are truly creating a pure white light.

Now you can use it this way to examine the beliefs that you have, and you can also use it as a permission slip to bring yourself back into alignment. If you believe, if you feel, if you experience yourself as being out of alignment, If you experience the idea of the tints and the shades and the variations that are not the pure frequencies of the three primaries and are not creating the pure frequency of the white light in the center when they overlap, you can use the idea of the three primaries in their pure form and use the idea, Envision the idea of them overlapping to create the pure bright pristine vibrational white light as a way of guiding yourself back to the vibration of your true natural being. And in so doing, you can see the tints and the shades leaving, Changing, shifting. And as you use this permission slip in this way visually, you may actually find that it actually helps bring some of the unconscious, out-of-alignment belief systems to the surface of your Consciousness. It actually can bring them to your attention by using this particular permission slip technique of the spectrum of reflection. By actually bringing them with your imagination into alignment and creating the tints to shift, then the things, the components, the secondary vibrations that caused the tinting, that caused the shading, May stand out.

This is how you use exclusion in an inclusive way. You are now actually creating an exclusion of the secondary frequencies, but you are including them in the process of helping you discover what the true primary frequencies are for you that allows you to experience the true white light at the center of the overlap. So this again is the paradoxical exclusion and inclusion of these frequencies to guide yourself into the discovering of what belief systems you may be harboring unconsciously that are taking you out of alignment with your true natural self. This can be very powerful as a permission slip for many of you, especially those who are visually oriented and especially because color for many of you has such a strong, strong vibratory attraction. You can help yourself create these visualizations if you wish through the utilization of your Technologies. Much of the technology that is utilized in your holographics with regard to your light emitting diodes do emit very pure frequencies of light. And you can use these to guide you: use the pure red, use the pure blue, use the pure green lights to guide you, see them coming together in such a way as to create the Pure White Flash, the Pure White vibration. Use whatever techniques your imagination so desires because this is your permission slip and you are tapping into vast resources of the collective Consciousness with respect to the idea of color frequency when you do this. And you are gaining support and being given support by the collective Consciousness with respect to the idea of these vibrations because they are very fundamental and ensconced within the collective Consciousness in a very profound and deep and anchored way. So use them, use them because they are there. All the support is there. The support of the whole is there. The support of the whole for the individual is there in those frequencies, in that light.

Because remember, fundamentally you are made of energy, you are made of light, so to speak. It is one of the first expressions of your Consciousness in physical terms. What we term electromagnetic energy is one of the first physicalizations of Consciousness in the process of crystallizing your Consciousness into a more solid seeming physical reality experience. Use that light. It's the first level of your crystallization and it can act as The Crucible to unlock you from the deep-seated crystallization and allow you more flexibility, malleability, fluidity, plasticity in your rearrangement of your understanding, in your rearrangement of your definitions of yourself, of your being.

And always, as you go through using these permission slip—or whatever permission slip your imagination attracts to you which works best for you at any given moment—always remember: **it's "this and that," "this and that," not "this or that."** Within any given exclusive focus of circumstance and situation, look for all the doors, all the windows, all the paths, all the options, all the Expressions, all the perspectives, all the points of view. The big picture. Look for the big picture and all the ways it can be understood and all the ways it can be defined and all the ways it can be perceived and all the ways it can be experienced, even while this is all an experience of one single exclusive thing. Look for all the things that are relevant. Create other things to be relevant that you believe are in Harmony and in alignment with your preferred vibration of who you prefer to Define yourself to be, of who you know you are. Use the "this and that" principle in this way and it will serve you in a very powerful, very broadening sort of way.

At this time, each of you become comfortable, take a few deep breaths. Breathe in and exhale. Breathe in and exhale. Breathe in and exhale. And allow this information to sink in in whatever way, shape, or form will work best for you. And you don't have to have an intellectual comprehension of exactly how that's going to work. Remember, the physical mind does not know and is not built to know, and thus is not capable of knowing how something is going to happen. The higher mind is. Let the higher mind do its job. Let it sink in in the best way, knowing that when the higher mind knows the best way for this information to sink in, it knows the best way. And the best way includes the physical mind, includes all aspects of your physical experience, it includes everything.

The physical mind is a focus, in a sense. The physical mind is the excluder. The higher mind is the includer. And you need to allow them to work together in harmony and balance so that you can take advantage not only of where it is appropriate to experience the "this or that" scenario, but also at the same time where it is appropriate to overlap it with the "this and that" scenario of the higher mind. Because that's the higher mind's perspective: everything to the higher mind is always "this and that," even though more often than not to the physical mind it seems only to be "this or that." Do not get caught up in those conundrums. Do not get caught up in those Mazes of confusion that it's got to be "this" or it's got to be "that" or it doesn't make sense. It can make perfect sense being "this and that" if you simply find the balance point between the two. They are not really, not really in opposition even though they may seem to be opposites. Both have to come from the same Source, both have to come from the same Center. That's the ultimate Paradox: is that what seems to be completely exclusive and contradictory to something else must by definition still be coming from exactly the same source as that came from. Thus then they are simply two sides of the same coin. And without either, there is no coin, and thus you have nothing to appreciate.

Allow yourselves the opportunity in your breathing and in your meditations and in your relaxations to focus on the idea of inclusivity and use it within your experience of exclusivity so that you are not simply continuing on a path of exclusion and spiraling into the negative downward spiral that diminishes and diminishes and diminishes and diminishes your understanding and concept of yourself. Simultaneously with the exclusive Focus that allows you the opportunity to have a physical experience, simultaneously have the expanded appreciation of inclusivity of all that is. That everything is here and now. Everything. And that even as you select, even as you choose One exclusive aspect, One exclusive point of view at any given moment, that does not mean that all the other points of view aren't there anymore. They are all there, all available to you. So you can shift and change any time you wish, any way you wish. And if you would but allow both to exist in that paradoxical center point of power, then you will be very easily capable of balancing both of those out, using both sides of the coin. And that is a state of being that will enrich you in unlimited ways.

Take a moment, all of you. Let this sink in. Take a deep breath. And with every breath in, you know that this is crystallizing within you, rewiring your brain to understand these things more efficiently. Because every single thought you have rewires your brain. Every single change is a total change and you become a totally different person literally with every single change. Because you are constantly shifting moment to moment, billions of times per second, from one parallel reality to another. You are never the same person. Never, never, never the same perspective from moment to moment to moment to moment to moment to moment, billions of times per second. You are that fluid, you are that flexible, you are that plastic, you are that malleable, you are that free.

So understand that all of the focus, all the limitation, all the exclusivity, all the "this or that" is always nothing more than the most fleeting of temporary manifestation. Because it is never the same at any moment, billions of times per second. So you are always in a balanced state of "this and that" even while you're exploring the idea of "this or that." Because "this or that" can only last for the briefest blink of a second. Because "this and that" is what you're using to propel you through the infinite series of parallel realities. Each of which represent a "this or that" scenario. You're using them both as a mechanism to create the experience you call physical space time. Because time and space are side effects of the shifting of your Consciousness through a series of infinite parallel realities billions of times per second. That's what time is: it's a side effect of that shifting. And you're using the mechanisms of "this or that" and "this and that" simultaneously to propel you through that series of focused parallel reality experiences in order to create the illusion and the experience of space and time in order to experience creation and its mechanism of Creation in a unique way.

Why? Why do you do it that way? Why do you have the physical Focus? Why do you have a physical experience at all? Not meaning to be flippant, not meaning to be in any way, shape, or form sarcastic. The real answer is: **Why not?** All things are possible. All things that you can imagine exist. Physical reality experience is one of them. And thus then it is just as valid, just as valuable, just as important, just as equal to any other experience, any other way of experiencing. And as a higher mind, as a spirit, as an oversoul, as an aspect, as a reflection of all that is, you know this. And thus then from that perspective, exclude nothing. Even as all that is imposes exclusivity on itself in order to know itself as all the things within all that is—because it has to impose exclusivity and limitation on itself in order to experience itself as an individual aspect of itself—but even as it does that, it still knows it is all that is. It includes everything that it is as equally valid. And by supporting and including everything that it is as equally valid, it has the capability thus then of experiencing anything that it is on an individual level in an exclusive way. These two things work hand in hand harmoniously to create your experience. They are not in any way, shape, or form truly mutually exclusive. You have to have both in order to have the kinds of experiences that you are having. But it is very important if you want a harmonious experience to use them both in a conscious way, in the same way that all that is does. You allow it all to be valid. The positive, the negative, all of it is perfect as it is. And while allowing it all to be valid, while allowing "this and that" and "that and that" to be valid, you thus then give yourself the power and the ability to focus and choose any particular aspect of "this and that" in order to experience "this from that" and thus then actually delve into "this or that" and give yourself the concept of choice.

Choice. "This or that" allows you to choose whatever aspect of "this and that" that is uniquely your vibration. And so "this or that" exhibits positive and negative attributes like anything. "This and that" exhibits positive and negative attributes like anything. But "this and that" is definitely geared mechanically toward inclusivity, and "this or that" is simply geared mechanically towards the idea of the negative in terms of exclusivity. Positive, negative, negative, positive. All In Balance. All perfect harmony. All different aspects, different tools, different perspectives, different ways of having the experience of yourself as an individuated aspect of all that is. Using both simultaneously to create the experience of space and time and physical life, and also to form the relationship more strongly with higher mind, spirit, and soul, and oversoul self, and source of all that is.

Balance. Balance. Breathe it in and exhale. And create a new atmosphere, a new understanding, a new reality vibration. With Every Breath You Take in and every exhalation, it is a new world, a new reality, a new moment of the same moment. A New Perspective of the same moment. The only moment that exists. There is only one of the here and now. There is only one place here, only one moment now. And everything that you think is a different thing is the same thing from a different point of view. And every moment you think is a different moment is the same moment from a different point of view. **"This and that."** "This or that." Use them both to your benefit in whatever way you so prefer. Because it is up to you. You have the freedom to choose based on "this or that" the freedom to choose whatever of "this and that" you so desire to experience. Allow yourselves to choose in Freedom what is truly relevant for the unique individual aspect of creation each and every one of you was created to be.

And remember, even though there may seem to be beginnings and endings Within time and space, time and space are subject to existence, but existence is not subject to time and space. You are made of existence itself. You are made of creation itself because there is nothing else to make anything from. Thus then you are Timeless, spaceless. You are here, you are now. And you are also the experience of then and there and forever with no beginning and no ending except the experience of beginnings and endings within time and space. But as an aspect of existence itself, you have no beginning and no ending because those concepts are subject to existence, are created within existence, and existence is not subject to them. And ultimately neither are you because you are an expression of existence itself.

Everything that you call a different thing is a reflection of you from a different point of view. Look deeply at the mirror. Look fully at the reflections. And bring to bear in your relationship with all the reflections that exist in your reality, in your experience, bring to bear both the exclusivity of "this or that" that gives you the freedom to choose, and the inclusivity of "this and that" that allows you to know that everything you see is you in a different form, is you in another parallel definition, is you in another facet of the multi-dimensional crystal of creation, of all that is.

Breathe It In. Breathe It In. Breathe it in and let it out. And know that as you exhale you are sending out, radiating out with every exhalation, with every heartbeat, with every thought, a new vibration, a new understanding that is far more harmonious, far more Blended, far more in balance with the idea of "this or that" and "this and that." And that this will sink in in whatever way you need it to. You will be given the reflections, you will see the facets, you will see the shards of the mirror you need to see that will contain the reflections you need to see in order to understand how to use this, how to have, how to know how to be the relationship that you are with all that is. The relationship you are of all that is with itself.

The spectrum of reflection. The colors of the rainbow. The infinite Shades and tints of your frequencies. The white light. The pure balanced white light of your true being. Breathe it in. Let it out. Breathe it in and let it out. Breathe it in and let it out. And be refreshed and be alert and be awake and be new. A new you truly knew for the very first time. A New Perspective. Even though it all exists, even though the structure of all that is always exists, it's the experiences, the points of view that are new. The combinations, the infinite combinations of that same structure that are new and that are representative of the perspectives of each and every one of you. The beauty, the harmony, the pallet, the riotous shades of colors that each and every one of you are that form the spectrum of reflection for all that is and of all that is by all that is. You are all that is and it is you.

Now we are going to do something a little different in this transmission. It is generally speaking now timing for you to go and have your break and refresh yourselves and Ponder and let these things sink in. Soak them up. Let them sustain you. Roll them around in your mind, on your tongue. Absorb them, taste them, Savor them. "This or that," "this and that." The balance point. Power of the balance point. Sit with it, lie with it, be with it. Be it.

After your refreshment break, at the end of the second part of this transmission, we will guide you in a deep Holotrope meditation to help crystallize these Concepts within your Consciousness. But this will be the only pre-recorded segment of this transmission. After your refreshment break, we will simply begin with live interactions of questions and answers until such time as it is time and timing for the Holotrope meditation. Because there are many things that need to be addressed and many discussions that are important to have at this timing between us in a live context for things that are to come in the crossing of the threshold that is now fast approaching as you approach your year of 2013. Enjoy your break. We will resume this transmission with live interaction of questions and answers afterward. Our unconditional love to you.

# Live Q&A Session

**April:**
Just take this moment to ask you to join with me in thanking Daryl and Bashar for opening up this unique and exciting Doorway to the infinite and to all this information that we know is there as part of our reality and he helps us bring that to the Forefront to remember who we really are. Thank you Daryl and Bashar.

**Daryl:**
You're welcome.

**April:**
Thank you guys. Thanks, April. Um, thank you all very much for being here today. We really appreciate it. Um, we'll just get going right into it. Uh, if you're new to Bashar or have never interacted with him before and you have a chance to ask a question, uh, by all means please just be bold and speak right up. If it's important to you, it's important to him. And just have fun with them. So um, you can have some fun now and I'll see you later.

**Bashar:**
Hello and good day to you this day of your time. How are you all? All right. Thank you. Once again, we will take this opportunity to thank each and every one of you individually and all of you together collectively for the co-creation of this interaction and allowance of this Transmission in this way at this time. Each and every time you allow us to experience through each and every one of you another facet of the multi-dimensional crystal of creation, it is a gift to us that expands our understanding of all the ways that creation can express itself. So we thank you for this gift of expansion you are giving to us.

After your lunch period, we will continue a little bit further in discussion with the idea of the next stage of "this and that." We will take that IDE idea a little bit further, explored a little bit more deeply in a new way. However, for now, we would like to Simply open up to you in return for the gift you are giving us the opportunity for sharing with your questions and answers and clarifications if any need to be given. So by all means, be bold, step up, and begin your sharing now if you wish.

### Question 1: Talking in Sleep

**Audience Member:**
Hello Bashar.

**Bashar:**
And you, good day.

**Audience Member:**
Um, April was talking about talking in your sleep and that was what my question was about. She was talking about the idea of the channel talking in his sleep. Yeah, exactly. However, I am also in a state of repose aboard my ship in order to help facilitate this transmission, which is basically a telepathic connection or link to the Channel's mind and thus then a translation of my thoughts through the channel as a biological translation device. So my question about talking in my sleep is: um, the other night my friend was sleeping in uh, my room, all right, and he said in the middle of the night he woke up and his hair on the back of his neck was standing up because he was afraid by what I was saying. And I... it sounded like to him it was five different conversations going on at one time, all kind of angry. That's all five? Yeah. So um, oh, all right. So that's happened several times where someone's reported that while I'm asleep. So I'm just wondering what's happening while I'm asleep?

**Bashar:**
Well, it can be several things. Number one, you can be processing certain ideas, belief systems, and experiences while you sleep. You can be arranging to have certain experiences in your dream state and in your sleep that will either allow you to reconfigure the template or blueprint of your physical reality experience, and/or will be a substitute for the idea of your physical reality experience. In other words, you may be working certain processes and experiences out in your dream state that thus then makes it so you don't have to experience the manifestation of those particular things in your physical reality. You follow me?

**Audience Member:**
Mhm.

**Bashar:**
You can also actually be having conversations out of body with other beings on other levels, other dimensions, that may Simply Be translating through your body if it is still strongly connected to the vibration of your spirit in that way. It may puppet or mimic what kind of an experience your spirit is having. Do you understand?

**Audience Member:**
Yeah.

**Bashar:**
And it can be this and other things as well. The idea is for you to understand what is being said and to use that information, use whatever experience you are having in a way that you can apply it into your Waking Life—or I'll put it this way, your waking dream—and thus then give yourself the opportunity to download information in whatever way of shape or form you need it for whatever kind of Life Experiences you need to have. That is also part of what is going on. You follow? Yeah. Does this answer your question or is there another aspect of this idea you wish to discuss?

**Audience Member:**
Can you tell me... are you able to tell me which one of those I was doing that night?

**Bashar:**
It's a combination of all things. Okay, remember "this and that"? Yeah. Sometimes we understand that it can be more or less a specific thing, however, it is almost always a combination of things. What portion of it, what version of it, what level of it someone else may experience will be the level that's relevant for them, but that doesn't mean you're not doing other things as well that are relevant for you. Make sense?

**Audience Member:**
Mhm.

**Bashar:**
Does that answer your question or again is there something else you wish to explore about this idea?

**Audience Member:**
So in the spirit of "this and that," I I don't have to assume that because it scared my friend and it sounded negative that it was... do you know what was said?

**Bashar:**
No, he did not tell you?

**Audience Member:**
It it was in... it sounded like I was speaking in tongues. Just yes. And not in English. A different language.

**Bashar:**
All right. Well, again, you may be making many different cross connections to many different dimensions of realities or what you would call parallel reality lives, what you typically call past lives, future lives. You may be extracting information from them and processing them through yourself to find the bits that are relevant for this life here. You understand? Yeah. Does that make sense?

**Audience Member:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
So you're acting, in a sense, as your own channel. Now, the idea of being scared by it may simply be that that individual may have his own definitions, his own preconceptions, his own issues, his own ideas that are part and parcel of the integration in his Consciousness that he needs to experience in his life. And it may simply be that that strikes the chords in certain negative belief systems or definitions that he has. It plucks those chords and causes the sensation of fear because he is not necessarily allowing himself to integrate certain things within himself that those Sensations he's receiving from you cause him to be put in touch with more consciously. But that's all right. Anytime, anytime you ask higher dimensional energy, it may cause fear within many individuals in your planet who are still functioning in a compartmentalized way in their psychology. Does that make sense?

**Audience Member:**
Yeah.

**Bashar:**
So it's all for the purpose of being used in a positive way. If your friend is capable of giving it a positive definition, then they will experience it in a positive way. If only a definition that is negative is given, it will only be experienced in a negative way. Because that's simple physics: what you put out is what you get back. Make sense?

**Audience Member:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
So you're functioning is a kind of reflective multi-level mirror for your friend to give your friend an opportunity to decide how they wish to choose to Define this idea. In what way is it relevant for them that they have attracted this experience into their lives? Make sense?

**Audience Member:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
Does that help you?

**Audience Member:**
Yes, it does.

**Bashar:**
I have one more question. Oh, all right.

### Question 2: The 13 Humans on Spacecrafts

**Audience Member:**
So um, the last Transmission in Los Angeles last weekend... yes, it was really exciting for me. Oh, right. Uh, on for number of reasons, but I'd like you to tell us more about the 13 that came up down there if you can. The 13?

**Bashar:**
The 13 was an idea presented that represents the fact that there are 13 human individuals that actually have extended lives or spend long periods of time aboard certain spacecraft. Only 13 live aboard spacecrafts that are extraterrestrial origin for extended periods of time. This does not mean that other human individuals have not been Taken aboard crafts for limited periods of time, but the 13 that we are referring to are 13 human physical individuals that actually experience life aboard the Extraterrestrial crafts for extended periods of time. And their vibrational energy is actually symbolically connected to the 13 crystal skulls that also exist on your planet.

The idea therefore is that these 13 act as a kind of a ambassadorial representational council of Earth to and assist in the balancing of energy. Because as we Aid and assist in the balancing of energy and as other extraterrestrial societies also do that, it's still requires an earth human component in order to have that side of the energy Balanced. So these 13 act as the representatives to help balance out the energy. As the energy from us flows through them, it is translated, in a sense, into Earth frequencies that are more harmonious and more relevant for your particular experiential vibration. Does that make sense?

**Audience Member:**
Yeah. Does that answer your question?

**Audience Member:**
Yeah. Um, so who are they?

**Bashar:**
Are I can't tell you that.

**Audience Member:**
Okay. All right. Well then that's great. Thank you.

**Bashar:**
Thank you.

### Question 3: Children and the Transition / Origin of Souls

**Audience Member:**
Hi. And to you, good day.

**Bashar:**
Uh, my question often is around my children. Speak up and be bold so that all may hear what you have to share.

**Audience Member:**
I said my question is often around my children. And what question is that? And uh, with 2013 coming up and the possibility of the transition...

**Bashar:**
The possibility? You are all already in the middle of a transition and have been for quite some time. And this transition will continue well beyond the idea of your 2012 date. Okay.

**Audience Member:**
So um, I guess my question would be: if anything were to quick or suddenly happen, or catastrophe or something of that sort, and I am not with my children... yes. Um, will they be okay? Will they know what to do?

**Bashar:**
Each has chosen from Spirit to experience certain things in your reality. Some will experience certain transitional elements in what you call a catastrophic way. At the same time, many of them that are born or brought in with the idea or fed diets of negative beliefs will use this opportunity for certain kinds of Transformations and transitions to transform them in ways that are more reflective of what they prefer, more representative. Transmute them in ways that are more reflective and representative of who they prefer to be and what realities they prefer to shift into. Each individual makes these choices. And whatever it is that occurs and whatever it is they attract themselves to will be relevant and appropriate for those individuals.

Please remember: you are all Eternal, infinite beings. You never actually truly die; you just change. Make sense?

**Audience Member:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
Nevertheless, the idea is that if you are allowing yourself to focus more strongly on fear-based belief systems, that is usually what attracts the idea of needing to shake yourself awake as opposed to having a smoother, softer transition. You understand? Yes. Are you getting the point?

**Audience Member:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
Thus then, do you you need to be afraid? No. All right. Because you understand that even though they may be your children Incarnation speaking, they are very powerful spirits that have chosen to experience certain things in their life for the purpose of the expansion of their souls. You understand?

**Audience Member:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
So whatever it is will be what you have taught them, what they have picked up from their society, and also what it is that is representative of the theme they chose to explore in this transformational age. Because by choosing to be born in in this age, that's not an accident. And thus then, if you have given them the tools to understand that they are the creators of their reality, and you allow them access to their imagination and allow them to understand the consequences of choices and belief systems and definitions, then they will have all the tools they need to be fully equipped to handle any circumstance or situation in their life in exactly the way that they need to. Yes? Yes. Have you done this? Have you given them the tools or have you passed along your own fears?

**Audience Member:**
Um, probably passed along some of my fears.

**Bashar:**
Can you undo this?

**Audience Member:**
I'm sure I can.

**Bashar:**
Is that exciting for you?

**Audience Member:**
Yes, it is.

**Bashar:**
Then we would suggest that you follow your excitement to the best of your ability and share with them the opportunities and options they have to choose things that are not fear-based. Not to invalidate the fear idea, not to invalidate the polarity, but to Simply understand that if they balance all choices as equally valid, they will have the ability, they will experience their power to choose what it is they prefer.

**Audience Member:**
Yes, yes. Does that help you?

**Audience Member:**
Yes, it does. I have one more question with them. Yes. I've um, always wondered where they came from. Cuz they come from Earth, so they have... were they not born to you?

**Bashar:**
Yes. What I'm saying to you is this question—"Where do I come from? Where do they come from?"—is really an old-fashioned, outdated, outmoded understanding in metaphysical knowledge. You come from Spirit. If you want to have the idea of a specific origin point, you come from the source of all that is. But when you ask "where do I come from," implying another reality, another dimension, another planet, another civilization... you come from Earth because that's where you were physically born.

What you're actually asking is: since all lives exist simultaneously... yes? Yes. Then if all things exist at the same time, how can you come from any place else to here? Do you understand?

**Audience Member:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
So you chose to have your oversoul chose to have an extension incarnated as an earth life. At the same time, it has other extensions in other lives and other Earth lives and other civilizations and other Realms of reality altogether at the same time. So the idea, when you say "where do I come from," is actually another way of saying, in a more, shall we put it, modern context: "What other simultaneously coexisting realities am I connecting to from this life that serve me in helping Define the theme I chose to explore in this life?" That's what you're actually saying. Because you don't come from anywhere in the past tense sense. You are making cross connections to all the lives that serve you in this life, even as all the other lives are making cross connections simultaneously to your experiences in this life to Aid and assist them in downloading information that may be relevant for the experiences they are having in those lives. But it's all going on at the same time. Yes? Yes. Does that make sense?

**Audience Member:**
It does.

**Bashar:**
So this is one of the things we are now aiding and assisting your world with in your exploration of spiritual and metaphysical Concepts: is the idea that some of your definition are in many ways, shall we say, old-fashioned, outmoded, outdated. And the Very definitions themselves can cause confusion within you because of the way you're framing your questions, the way you're framing your perspective. Such as asking "where do I come from?" When you understand that everything exists all at once, that question will be nonsensical. You will understand that you come from here and now. And you'll understand that any other place you sense you're becoming more aware of when you say "where do I come from," it's just the process of the fact that your Consciousness is expanding to the point where you're becoming aware of more of the other places you are also connected to. It's just that many of you assume that when you make that connection, when you make that realization, that somehow that means you have come from there. All it means is you're becoming more aware of a connection you have to there. Make sense?

**Audience Member:**
Yes, it does.

**Bashar:**
But since you have chosen in this life to come from Earth, the point of making those other connections is to allow yourself to become more aware, more conscious about all the information you are extracting from those other simultaneously existing parallel lives that is relevant for you. And applying that information, applying that energy, bringing it down to earth. That's the whole point of how you Aid and assist in the transformational age. Because when you talk about the idea of "where do I come from," it can cause confusion in many of you that make you feel like you need to disconnect from the Earth to get back home. Home is everywhere. You are Eternal, you are infinite, you are everywhere. As all that is, home is where you are.

So the idea is that if you will streamline and modernize your definitions, it won't be about disconnecting from the earth in order to attempt to go to someplace or reconnect to someplace you think you come from that you judge to be better than where you are—which it isn't, it's just different. Thus then, by making all things equal and knowing it's a real time, simultaneously existing connection, you can use that energy to bring that vibration. If you prefer the vibration that is represented by some of those other lives, you can bring that vibration through yourself into the Earth and live that way as your version, your Earth version, of that other connection, that other life, that other being. And thus then allow the Earth to to see in you as a living example, a reflection of an energy they can also choose for themselves. Is this making sense?

**Audience Member:**
It is.

**Bashar:**
Does this help you?

**Audience Member:**
Yes. Thank you.

**Bashar:**
Well, thank you.

### Question 4: Animals and Plants Transforming

**Audience Member:**
Bashar, yes. Hi. To you, good day.

**Bashar:**
Good day.

**Audience Member:**
I have a question regarding the other life forms on this planet. Yes. When we're all going through transition, as you say, yes. But what about the plants, the animals, the insects, the reptiles, all the diversity on this planet? Yes. Are they transforming also? And how so?

**Bashar:**
In many different ways. You are a whole system, correct? So in some ways, on some levels, you transform together. They are also individuals in their own right and they have their own path, their own themes of exploration, albeit it might be very different than what you experience as a human theme. Doesn't really matter. They still have their own themes and their own individual paths as well. And they transform through them.

**Audience Member:**
Will they stay with us?

**Bashar:**
Depends. Okay. "Will you stay with them?" is actually a more pertinent question. Well, I'd like to... well, all right. But the idea is that you're always shifting. You understand this?

**Audience Member:**
Yes, I do.

**Bashar:**
You are constantly shifting billions of times per second through a series of parallel realities. And when you allow yourself to be the vibration you prefer to be, then what you do is shift through a series of parallel realities that are bit by bit more and more, more representative and more reflective of the vibration. Already, they already contain the vibration that is more reflective of the change you've made within yourself. Animals will do this too. Trees will do this too. Rocks will do this too. All beings will do this. And those that are relevant to you, and you to them, there will be versions of them in those new realities. But again, understand that it's simply a shifting of perspective, shifting of Consciousness point of view. The original thing never changes. The old Earth is still there. You understand?

**Audience Member:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
It's just that you're not focused there anymore. And neither will they be. If there is no relevance to the idea of having a version of some other being sharing your reality, then you won't experience them and they won't experience you in that reality. But if it is relevant, you will experience some version of them in your reality. Yes? Okay. Because there are a number of parallel Earth realities. So whatever your vibration is will determine which series of Earth realities you experience and what inhabits those Earth realities that is also relevant to your experience. Okay? Does that make sense?

**Audience Member:**
Yes, it does. But well, I think about the changes that have already taken place on the planet...

**Bashar:**
And the but they haven't taken place on the planet. That's what I'm attempting to tell you. Okay. You have shifted to a complete, completely different Earth. Okay. Make sense? The old Earth is still there. Nothing about it has changed. Okay. You have changed and shifted yourself to another parallel Earth that already contains more representation [of] the change you made within yourself. And you're always constantly doing this. Okay? Does that make sense?

**Audience Member:**
It makes sense. Yes, it does.

**Bashar:**
All right. Does that thus then address the issue that you raised or is there some other aspect [you] wish to discuss?

**Audience Member:**
Um, if I want to shift to a reality that contains more plants and animals than people, can I do that?

**Bashar:**
You can. Okay. Sorry. However, however, make sure that it is truly representative of your preference and is not being chosen on a fear-based level. Do you understand?

**Audience Member:**
Yes, I do.

**Bashar:**
Yes. If it's a judgment, if it's a negative, shall we say, concept to you, it may actually move in the opposite direction to get you to face the fact that you're choosing from a fear-based level. Yeah. Do you understand?

**Audience Member:**
Yes. I remember there is nowhere to push anything away too. It's like being in a small room and the walls are covered with giant Springs. And if you try to push away what you say you don't prefer, you only build up energy in those Springs and they will snap back 100 fold. But if you simply let them be the springs they are and say "nice spring, nice spring..."

**Bashar:**
[Laughter] You are valid as you are. Thus then, by allowing all the Springs to be equal, you can experience which one you prefer in a peaceful, joyful, creative state. Because you're not, in a sense, forcing your attention on getting rid of something. You are allowing it in. And thus then, by full allowance, you don't actually have to experience that thing because now you have freedom of choice. Correct?

**Audience Member:**
Okay. Make sense.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Absolutely. So as long as the vibration is truly representative, as long as that choice is truly representative of what you truly believe to be most reflective of who you are, then that will simply be what automatically happens. Okay. You don't even have to think about it. You don't have to wonder about it. You don't even have to, in a sense, make it happen or arrange things to happen that way. You just need to keep being yourself. And if that's what yourself is, if that's the manifestation reflection that is most accurately reflective of that vibration, that's what you will ultimately experience. I see. That makes...

**Audience Member:**
You can experience anything else. Do you understand?

**Audience Member:**
Yes, absolutely.

**Bashar:**
Right now, obviously, you are choosing to still get something out of having the population that you do. Yes? Yes. Thus then, use that in a positive way. Let it be what it needs to be. Let it be. All right. That's what's happening because it has things to show you that will actually allow you to be become more quickly the being you say you prefer to be, the state of being you prefer to be in, that will then allow the experience of change to happen more rapidly and more concretely for you. So use what is to allow it to become something else, another version of what is. But anytime you walk away, push away from what is as if somehow it didn't belong, that it wasn't right, it wasn't valid, it will always stick around until you get the point. Yep. Yep. Sense?

**Audience Member:**
Yes. That's how the engine works. That's how the mechanism works. And it always works that way. Okay. Never fails. Not even for you. Right?

**Audience Member:**
You're right. You're right. You're right. Got it. Okay. Thank you.

**Bashar:**
You're welcome.

### Question 5: Journeying and Entities

**Audience Member:**
Hello Bashar. And are you good day?

**Bashar:**
Thank you. Good day to you.

**Audience Member:**
And thank you so much for for visiting with all of us.

**Bashar:**
It is our pleasure.

**Audience Member:**
I do quite a bit of what I call journeying, where I simply close my eyes and I transport myself into another... well, I'm not going to say another after today's talk of "this or that," it's "this and that." So simply another... another realm where I visit with. And it's more earth-based. It's not extraterrestrial. It's an earth-based type of thing where I run into quite a few entities and animals who have actually been quite helpful to me and give me a lot of information.

**Bashar:**
Sounds exciting.

**Audience Member:**
It is exciting. I love it. I could live there all the time. But I don't. Regardless, my question is: who are these entities? Are they things that I have actually made up in my own mind or do they...

**Bashar:**
You're asking a "this or that" question. I guess so. Huh. Understand this principle: even if you are dealing with what you would colloquially call another entity, you still have to create your version of that entity in your reality out of your energy in order to experience The Exchange. So it's both. It's "this and that." It is "this and that."

**Audience Member:**
So they do exist in their own... but that I'm creating my own form of...

**Bashar:**
Consciousness is autonomous unto itself as well as being a reflection of your own Consciousness. Ah, that's perfect. One moment. Let us use an analogy that exists on your planet because we know you tell many different kinds of stories. And within many of these stories, you have all the information that we are telling you in a variety of ways. So let us relate it to a very popular story on your planet. The series of stories was called Harry Potter.

**Audience Member:**
Ah, yes. Did you see those?

**Bashar:**
Oh, yes, I did. Do you remember the last one?

**Audience Member:**
Vaguely. Vaguely.

**Bashar:**
Do you remember when the character called Harry went into Spirit realm?

**Audience Member:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
And was speaking with his mentor?

**Audience Member:**
Yes, yes, yes. I do.

**Bashar:**
And asked the question: "Is this all just happening in my head or is it real?" And of course, the wise answer was: "Of course it's all happening in your head, but why should that mean it's not real?" Ah. Do you understand?

**Audience Member:**
Yes, I do.

**Bashar:**
That's what we're saying. It's both. It's "this and that." It is your product and it is real unto itself. That's perfect. But the point is, is it doesn't even matter whether you think of it one way and or the other. Because all that really matters, as you say in your language, bottom line, is: how does the experience allow you to become more of who you are or more aware of who you are? It's really all about the application of the knowledge, the information, the perspective, and the experience. Way more than who it's coming from, where it's coming from. Is it real? It's real as an experience. Because you see, there is no physical reality Anyway, except your experience of it. It that's what's real: your experience of physical reality is real, but physical reality on its own is not. So who cares where it's coming from? If it works for you, use it. Who cares how you conjured it? Make sense?

**Audience Member:**
It does. Does that help you?

**Audience Member:**
It most stay in more "this and that" scenario.

**Bashar:**
No, that's perfect.

**Audience Member:**
And then the corollary would be: am I able to help them in any way?

**Bashar:**
What makes you think you're not?

**Audience Member:**
I just don't know.

**Bashar:**
Yes, you are. And the point is, yes, you do know. I'll explain it by another analogy we've talked about many times. Do you remember us speaking about the concept that there are no one-sided coins? Yes. So if you have the head, you must have the tail, or there is no coin. Yes, that's correct. So if you are receiving, you must be giving. And if you're giving, you must be receiving. And if you have something to give, there must be someone who wants to receive it, or you wouldn't be excited about giving that thing. Because there are no pointless Creations. There are no one-sided coins. It would make no sense for you to be existing in a reality where you had something to give that was truly representative of your highest self, your highest joy, and there was absolutely no one to receive it. It would make no sense at all. Okay. Make sense?

**Audience Member:**
Yes, it does. Thank you.

**Bashar:**
Thank you. For sure.

**Audience Member:**
May I ask one last question?

**Bashar:**
That was a question. All right. Second last question. So I suppose you can. Very, very personal question. I have this thing where I'm unable to eat or even smell seafood or anything from the sea. Yes. Because I feel like I'm going to be eating something about... about myself. I... it's a very...

**Bashar:**
Well, you are always eating something about yourself, no matter...

**Audience Member:**
I can't eat myself. I don't know what it is. Why I have this?

**Bashar:**
Because you have a strong Sirius connection. Ah. And thus then you are so strongly connected to it, you identify with that vibration so strongly that it actually manifests in a visceral, tangible way for you through the idea of the expressions of Sea being. Mhm. Okay. Make sense?

**Audience Member:**
Yes, it does. Thank you so much.

**Bashar:**
It's really just all about how you develop the relationship with that. You don't have to eat it. But it's really just about how you develop the relationship with that concept, with that concept. Okay. Does that help you?

**Audience Member:**
It does.

**Bashar:**
But please remember, in a sense, you are always eating yourself. And even as you might eat something else, you are also simultaneously being eaten. Ah, yes. Two sides of the coin. Two sides of the coin. Now, the way we are actually meaning this is the idea that as you take something into yourself, you are also being absorbed into the greater idea of that thing. Make sense? So in a way, again, if you do this from a place of Integrity, from a place of positive vibration, from a place of gratitude, from a place of unconditional love, and in that vibration, as you even may still ingest other things on your planet that you consider to be aspects of nature, by ingesting them, you are actually taking into yourself the vibration that allows you to actually become more closely connected to Nature as a whole. You actually become more natural if you use it in the positive context.

**Audience Member:**
No, that's... that's lovely. Does that help?

**Audience Member:**
It most certainly does. It's truly an exchange. It is never a one-way Street.

**Bashar:**
Okay. Yes, yes. Thank you.

**Audience Member:**
Thank you so much.

### Question 6: Sacred Geometry and Connection

**Audience Member:**
Hello. And to you, good day.

**Bashar:**
I wish you too.

**Audience Member:**
Uh, not sure if I have a question or some sort of... you can make a statement. Oh, great. I feel the freedom to do so. Uh, a few months ago I was at Mary's house. Was a very nice person. And we were talking about the circuits of uh, sacred circuits. Yeah, those ones. Yes. And there is one who really catch me, which it's the connection. Oh, right. All right. That was really great. And then I did some drawing, very nice, out of the blue or out of somewhere else. And now I came here and the F... the theme of uh, the this this uh, this speech, this talk is uh, "this and that." And I say, wow, "this and that." What's this? And it's "this and that." That's yeah. And now I'm trying to connect the spectrum of the... the of the reflection and how we can equate and include "this and that" between the connection of the circuit and also...

**Bashar:**
Well, since it's all about connection, it automatically implies "this and that."

**Audience Member:**
Thata part is the one that I is troubling me. What is troubling you?

**Audience Member:**
If is "this and that," I'm trying to figure out how if there is any in the spectrum of the sionic society that is some sort of a vibration that is in the spectrum of all of us vibration. And can we make some sort of a "that society" and "this society" and connect in this spectrum of a energy?

**Bashar:**
Well, that's what's happening. That's why we're having these conversations. As we radiate the frequency of our energy to your world, and as you choose to accept the idea of that frequency as also a part of your own energy and start to match that frequency, our worlds start to overlap. And eventually we will become, in a sense, one Experience, One reality, in which we will be sharing more and more and more and more.

**Audience Member:**
Yeah, but that sounds a little bit narrow because... yeah, because if we're talking about the spectrum of uh, energy and the spectrum of a lot of it and all the shadow in... but again, you're still looking at it in "this or that" way. Because remember, it's always about Paradox and it's always moving in both directions. So even as the idea seems from one perspective to narrow down to something, what it is it's narrowing down to will actually give you more ability to expand your perspective more broadly. So as it becomes more focused in a certain way, it actually gives you more ability to expand your focus in another way. Both happen at the same time. It's not just "this." It's the idea of this focusing down allows you to expand out. When you focus down in a particular way, in a certain vibration, that is exactly in a certain vibration. But when we talking about certain vibration, I'm assuming that there is a certain amount of a spectrum of vibration in your society as well as in our society. Yes. And I'm assuming it's somehow some sort of a matching Point.

**Bashar:**
Yes. And it's probably not just Bashar. Probably somebody else's...

**Audience Member:**
Yes. More teachers or somebody else's.

**Bashar:**
There are many.

**Audience Member:**
Where are they?

**Bashar:**
They are here. Okay. But the idea is that you only perceive what you're ready to perceive. So as you absorb this idea, these informations, as you change your definitions, change your perspectives, and start acting on your highest excitement, you make yourself a better receiver, a better perceiver of what's already here. And things that are now invisible start to become more visible.

**Audience Member:**
Yeah, that's... I'm sorry if I'm taking time. I'm traveling about this.

**Bashar:**
That's all right. If if that is the case, I'm sure I'm some sort of a vibration. Right? Everyone has a specific frequency. Okay. Fine. Let's talk about me. Oh, all right. Sorry about that. All right. Is that the case? I am in some sort of vibration. Yes. And following the n and the spectrum of vibration, the spectrum of light, and the spectrum of everything else that is... it's all that it is. Is where is my matching Point?

**Bashar:**
Well, you're experiencing different levels of it. There will be different matching points for different levels of frequency. In other words, you are now speaking with an extraterrestrial.

**Audience Member:**
Yes. I'm assuming so. Yeah.

**Bashar:**
All right. That's all right. You don't have to believe it, but we're simply using it as an illustration. This is something that reflects and represents that you've obviously shifted your frequency to be capable of attracting into your reality experience a conversation with an extraterrestrial being. So that's already a sign and a symbol of the fact that you have shifted that matching point to a certain level that allows such things to occur. And you're going to keep shifting it to allow more things to occur that are more representative of that expansion going on within you. And you're going to do this a step at a time.

**Audience Member:**
I like that part. Yeah, I like that part.

**Bashar:**
Oh, all right. So following that thought, that means anyone who is not in this fether... yes? Have the same chance?

**Bashar:**
Everyone has the same chance, but they may not have chosen the same seam of exploration. So even though they may have the opportunity, they may choose something else, whether unconsciously or consciously. But again, ultimately, you will only experience that which your vibration is of. So those that are not of this vibration will not experience this.

**Audience Member:**
So just like you said before, bottom line is if you choose to have that experience or not. And somehow it's not a matter of vibration... it's is a matter of vibration?

**Bashar:**
No, it is a matter of vibration. It's all a matter of vibration. It's all a matter of resonance. What we're actually saying, bottom line, is: when you decide what your vibration is by acting on your highest excitement—which is representative of your true core vibration—and keep doing that all the time, then all the things that are reflective of that vibration will be the things you actually experience manifesting in your life. This is one of those things that is representative. Interactions with extraterrestrial beings is one of the things that are representative of the vibration of individuals that have chosen to explore the expansion of consciousness.

**Audience Member:**
Yes. You have a point there. I did. We choose. Yeah, definitely. It's a matter of choice. We choose to have another experience and then we put... let me see if I understood. We choose to have some sort of experience and then we put ourselves in that vibration. And by the fact of putting ourselves in that vibration, we are matching another being, extraterrestrial in this case. Yes. And then we have that connection in that moment. And then you have the experience. And then we enjoy the experience.

**Bashar:**
Yes. All right. Let's assume that is enough for now.

**Audience Member:**
In my case, I have a long way to study. I...

**Bashar:**
Else? Thank you. For sure. Thank you.

### Question 7: Vertigo and Pre-Incarnation Agreements

**Audience Member:**
T. It is 12:30. So then at this timing, please all enjoy your lunch break and we will resume this transmission afterwards. We thank you. And and we thank you. And so by all means, enjoy your lunch.

*(Break)*

**Bashar:**
But it'll say: Let us continue the transmission in the following way. We have clearly already discussed the idea of transitioning from "this or that" to "this and that." And we have actually also discussed to a great degree that there is actually a third component, the third step to this transformation. We did not label it as such, but we will do so now so that the idea becomes clearer and clearer in your minds and clearer and clearer in your definitions about what this concept is about and how it can be appropriately applied in your reality.

A full understanding, a full transformation, a full evolution of this concept would be that you recognize that your Society has for quite some time been using step one: **"this or that."** And we have now talked about the idea of step two: transforming this to **"this and that."** The third step in this process is to understand, as we have discussed in a variety of ways, that step number three is: **"this is that."** It's all one thing. And that is the three-step process to the idea of going from the experience of Separation to the experience of integration: "this or that," "this and that," "this is that." Because everything is the same thing from a different point of view. As we discussed, summing it all up that way in that triary format will allow you a very clear, simple permission slip reminder. So that when you catch yourself, when you have a moment of pause and realize that you may be functioning in some negative way or some segregational way that doesn't necessarily serve you—because there are such things that do, as we said, but in a way that you don't prefer, in a way that doesn't really serve you, in a way that's not really aligned with your true self, your true vibration—you can stop and take a moment and remember: "this or that" becomes "this and that" becomes **"this is that."**

That way, you begin to truly understand how to relate to all Reflections, all forms of the reflection, whether they are in any way, shape, or form human or not. Because you can understand that the tree, in a sense, is you from another perspective. The rock is you from another perspective. The chairs you are sitting on are you from another perspective. It's all an extension of your Consciousness. It's all taking place within your Consciousness. There is no outside. There is no outside at all. It's just a reflection off of what we have euphemistically labeled the higher mind mirror. If you will imagine the idea that your physical mind is encased within the sphere of the higher mind, then you can understand that the internal surface of that higher mind sphere is mirrored and reflective. And thus then all you're getting back is another point of view of you, another experience and perspective of you, of your Consciousness in in a different form, through a different filter, through a different idea of yourself.

And as we have described many times, what we call the concept of the Prime Radiant: the idea that there is only one particle. And that particle—again, this is an analogy—moving around at infinite speed means that it can appear to be next to itself instantaneously over and over and over again, appearing to be many particles interacting with each other when in fact it's only one particle interacting with itself. And in that context, from that understanding, with that permission slip perspective, you can understand that the chair, even in physical terms, is literally made out of the same single particle as your body is. In the ultimate time-sharing program, that particle zips around at infinite speed and thus can actually take the patterns of your body, the chair, the tree, the room, the floor, the sky, the clouds, the the Rocks, the animals, the sea, everything. And even into multiple dimensions of those things and parallel realities of those things all at once. And everything is thus then built from that same single particle. And I don't mean the same type of particle; I mean literally one particle. There is only one. Only one. And if you wish to again use this analogy—because it's only an approximation—as it zips around in a certain geometric pattern at infinite speed, it appears to be everywhere at once. And thus then it forms everything that there is, every reflection that there is within all that is.

And so truly thus then, you understand from this perspective: **"this is that."** But from a different point of view, you are the chair, you are the tree, you are the Rock. And when I say "you," I mean Consciousness. Your Consciousness is in a Hall of Mirrors and is getting all these Reflections back to you to use in your own way, in whatever way serves you best, whatever way your imagination so desires, whatever way you prefer, whatever it will allow you to experience yourself in a new way, from A New Perspective. Because that's really the point: it's all that is experiencing itself as all the ways it can be through each and every one of you, through each and every one of us, through all beings of all kinds throughout all creation in all dimensions and all civilizations in all realities. Physical, non-physical. Anything you can imagine is a reflection of all that is from some point of view. So **"this is that."** And that's that.

Thus then, one of the most important things that can occur now in these exchanges, taking into account what we have just said, is the absolute and precise clarification of definitions. Because as we have said, there are many outmoded, outdated, old-fashioned definitions in your reality. And it is some of those definitions that is causing any kind of confusion within you. And clarifying these definitions so that they are more aligned with the actual structure of—I'll say the actual mechanism, if you wish—of creation, will Aid and assist you in understanding what these concepts are all about and give you far more ability to understand them very quickly. Because as you have clearer definitions, so you will have clearer insight and understanding. Old and outdated definitions do not help you in the relationship of your being to higher mind or to all that is.

Now is the time for you to streamline your definitions and, as you say in your terms of counting, bring them into your 21st century. It is time for metaphysics to grow up. Time for you to use definitions that are true representations of the physics involved so that you can move forward with absolute Clarity. With that in mind, allow us to continue with the idea of sharing with your questions if you wish, so that you have sufficient time within this transmission to explore with us all the definitions you find that might not be working for you and to Aid and assist yourself in transforming them into ones that do. Proceed.

And before anyone begins speaking, please remember, based on what we just said: even though there may be varying degrees of relevance to what a person may ask, as far as you are concerned, remember: these people that are asking questions are you in a different form. So pay attention because you can get something out of everything. Thing if you are willing to truly be present with everyone, everything will serve you. Even if it is a little tiny bit, a little tiny reflection, it still serves you. And you serve everyone by being part of the orchestration of all of you coming together. Because there are no accidents. You are all an orchestration. We are all an orchestration. And together we are creating a symphony. Proceed.

**Audience Member:**
Thank you. Good afternoon. And to you, good day.

**Bashar:**
So um, recently I made made the acquaintance of a couple of uh, other templates or personalities or past lives or forward lives or whatever of my present lives. Present Liv... okay. But template, say yes.

**Bashar:**
As we say: simultaneous, simultaneous parallel Incarnation incarnations. SPIes. Simultaneous Parallel Incarnation. Yes. You have spies in other lives. Simultaneous parallel Incarnation. Correct.

**Audience Member:**
All right. Okay. So and um, they speak different language than this particular that's all right body does.

**Bashar:**
You will receive whatever information you need telepathically and translate it in whatever way is relevant for you and application in your reality. Okay.

**Audience Member:**
And um, you don't sound convinced.

**Bashar:**
Well, no, no. I I believe that to be accurate.

**Audience Member:**
No. All right. And and it can be confusing too sometimes. Co-fusing.

**Bashar:**
Okay. Yes, that's helpful. So you are examining the idea of what here to for seemed like polarized ideas but are now being given an opportunity to understand how they connect, how they blend, and how they issue from the same Source at the center, which is you. So your confusion is a positive thing if you choose to look at it that way. You will get something out of it. Is also positive. Yes? Yes. All right. So what is the cusion [confusion] you are experiencing at this moment?

**Audience Member:**
It's my understanding that they have information that could be allow me to be more useful. Useful? Define useful.

**Bashar:**
Uh, say and do things that have that with this co-creation thing, you know, is helpful to me.

**Audience Member:**
What definition do you have about yourself that says you're not being useful?

**Audience Member:**
I said *more* useful.

**Bashar:**
All right. What definition do you have about yourself that says you're not being useful enough?

**Audience Member:**
That's... I don't know how to answer that.

**Bashar:**
I sure you [Laughter] do. What is it you believe you need to be? Do what is it you believe you need to be more useful in?

**Audience Member:**
I believe that um, it it it com... the conflict. I notice it. Oh, now it's conflict. First it was confusion, now it's conflict. Tends to be about uh, tends where the... you mean you choose? There are no tenden... when I buy into it. Why? It's usually because the reflection of the culture and who I feel myself to be, or somehow I feel less than, or like I should be doing more, or I'm so...

**Bashar:**
So why do you choose to believe that it's true that you're less than? Why do you choose to believe that story? Why don't you tell yourself a different story?

**Audience Member:**
Well, that's what I think the this recent acquaintanceship is all about.

**Bashar:**
All right. Then You' have attracted into your life the reflection necessary to allow you to become more or appreciate more of who you are. Yes? Right. And my question really is: do you have any uh, Insight or advice that might support my getting to know these people in such a way that when these words come out... yes... that I actually know what they're talking about? Sometimes I do, but...

**Bashar:**
All right. Do you believe that you know what you need to know when you need to know it? Hesitation usually means... hesitation usually means no. In other words, do you trust the way your life unfolds or not?

**Audience Member:**
Oh, yes.

**Bashar:**
Then you know what you need to know when you need to know it. And what you don't know, you don't need to know.

**Audience Member:**
Yes, yes. But oh, yes. But but I want to...

**Bashar:**
Well, it's been... yes, it's been a long time. It's been a long... you how long?

**Audience Member:**
Well, a spit compared to the fact that it's all the same time.

**Bashar:**
Thank you. Why not look at it from that point of view then, if that works better for you?

**Audience Member:**
More often I do.

**Bashar:**
Well, why not all the time? That's the question. Why not all the time? Why not? What is the reason you give yourself for it being not all the time? What do you get out of having it not be all the time? Remember, you don't do anything you don't believe serves you in a beneficial way. So even if something you're doing is actually detrimental to you, the only reason you would do it is because you believe it's actually beneficial. Find out what that belief is.

**Audience Member:**
Right. I think it's around protection or lack.

**Bashar:**
Why do you believe you need protection? And protection from what?

**Audience Member:**
The slings and arrows of Fate.

**Bashar:**
Slings and arrows of Fate? What did we say about old-fashioned definitions not serving you? Old-fashioned mythologies no longer being relevant for the 21st century on your planet. The slings and arrows of Fate. So if I go back...

**Audience Member:**
So if I go back to the quote unquote advice, it's to trust the... to trust the universe, to trust the templates, that the... why not that the the... do you think they going to surpr... information will the information will be... do you think they are going to somehow... do you think that there's a conspiracy in the universe against you?

**Bashar:**
No.

**Audience Member:**
Well then why don't you trust it? Why not trust it?

**Bashar:**
You see, you trust all the time. You know that.

**Audience Member:**
Yes, yes.

**Bashar:**
It's just about what you're trusting in. Yes. You don't have to learn to trust; you just have to choose what you trust in. So here's the Paradox: if the universe and creation has been more than willing to trust you and support you when you trust in something you don't prefer—if it's willing to do that for you—why wouldn't it support you in something you do prefer?

**Audience Member:**
Ah, that's... that's that's very helpful. Because since I've been listening to various uh, of your Transmissions, yes, the idea of following my excitement... yes. I I I was sharing with my friend earlier. And when I first heard that, I was very sad. I went, "Well, where is it? You know, I don't see that any anywhere in my life." And and then these these templates came around and I feel like, "Well, that's kind of exciting." Oh, oh, kinda. All right. So so I guess I want to um... yes. What do you guess you want?

**Audience Member:**
I want... I don't want to be overrun by it. I want it. I want...

**Bashar:**
All right. Now pay attention. Stop there for one moment. Here's a critical piece. All right. You just said, "I don't want to be overrun by it." Correct? Correct. Right. Pay attention. If you actually have a clear definition of excitement, why would that definition contain a variable in which you would be overrun? A definition that contains an idea or a concept that you could be overrun by your excitement isn't a definition of excitement by definition. Okay. You understand?

**Audience Member:**
Yeah.

**Bashar:**
That's good. So pay attention to the definition you have of everything. Listen to what comes out of your mouth and pay attention to how you're defining things. Because that will tell you volumes about what you believe to be true. So when you say, "I'm afraid I might be overrun," what you're actually saying—if you stop, step back, take a moment, and listen—is: "Wait a minute, that means I have a definition of excitement that contains something that is contrary to excitement." And that makes no sense. Right? So make sense of the definition. Bring it into logical, sensible Focus. The definition of excitement can only contain definitions that are in alignment with excitement. They cannot contain definitions that are not. Because if they do, then whatever that equation is is not an equation that equals excitement. And so the... if I'm understanding well...

**Audience Member:**
Perhaps it's like any imagin or visioning that I might do. I get the choice to go in a positive or negative or scary or whatever.

**Bashar:**
Yes, of course. And it's up to you to decide what you prefer. Now, we understand on your planet that sometimes it's easier, because of the belief systems you have, it's easier for you to discover what it is you are by sometimes attracting what it is you're not. Because very often thus then it's easier for you to tell the difference. So that's all right. You can use what you're to serve you in having a better ability to perceive what it is you are. If you use it that way, it will serve you in a positive way. Even though it's not relevant for you and not compatible with your vibration, you can still get a positive effect from it if you use it in a positive way as a tool. And that goes to really the heart of what my question is. How H... and I think what you've said is that I know what they're saying, whether I it's English or not. That that if I just go with that I know... yes. Then do you need a reason? Do you need any other reason to know that you know?

**Audience Member:**
No.

**Bashar:**
Thank you. Then that's all there is to it. I understand. Because we have observed your Society for quite some time that one of the most difficult things that happens on your planet is the ability to believe that things aren't difficult. That's one of the most difficult... that's one of the most difficult things, right? That things are truly simple. It's hard for you to believe that things are truly simple because of the belief system you brought up yourselves in. And thus then you think that if I don't suffer, if I don't struggle, it's not worth anything. Now, yes, you will have challenges. Of course, you will have challenges. But challenges don't have to be negative. Right? But if you understand that you don't have to suffer and struggle and be in pain in order to deserve happiness, then it can be simpler than that. And you can realize that if you simply are willing to know what it is you need to know just because you say so, then you don't have to invent another reason to justify the fact that you know it to be true for yourself. Does that make sense?

**Audience Member:**
Yes. Is this too easy?

**Bashar:**
No. Thank you. Does that help you?

**Audience Member:**
I think so. Do you know...

**Audience Member:**
So I'm trying. I'm trying. I beg your pardon. Sure. I guess so. I think so. I'm trying to... all equal. No. Okay. I don't know it.

**Bashar:**
You either know it or you don't know it. Then that must be why I stood up. Maybe that to be reminded that I do know. Of course. So have you reminded yourself that you can just know what it is you wish to know because you don't need another reason to know it?

**Audience Member:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
All right. Thank you. Now will you act like you know that's true?

**Audience Member:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
Thank you. Of course. That's up to you. If you want to make something more difficult, I won't stop you. Okay? Thought unconditional love to you.

**Audience Member:**
Oh, thank you.

**Bashar:**
You know why why you deserve it?

**Audience Member:**
Oh, thank you. Automatically just by existing. You don't need another reason to deserve it. Make sense? Because believe me, if you didn't deserve unconditional love, you wouldn't exist.

### Question 8: The Three-Minute Pitch and Writing

**Audience Member:**
Uh, greetings Bashar. And are you good day?

**Bashar:**
I'd like to um, follow the protocol that you introduced recently, the three men... speak up, speak up, and be bold. All right. Bold coming up. Uh, you recently introduced a three-minute protocol that I would like to follow. Such as um, in telling, in relaying a story. And the you mean the pitch?

**Audience Member:**
Exactly. Yes. Yeah. So um, yes. A few years ago I created a couple of gu... guided meditations, uh, short stories with music. All right. And about two years ago I decided to do a follow up on that. All right. Um, I wrote out one script and didn't really like it, so started writing another. All right. And wrote and wrote and wrote.

**Bashar:**
All right. So that is your call to Adventure. Okay. That's part one of the pitch. Part two is: what challenges did you create for yourself in this process?

**Audience Member:**
Well, it became obvious that it it was turning into a book. Is that a challenge? A series of books? Yes. And I I could sense that there was the uh, "this or that" potential playing in there. So every time I sat down to write, I simply affirmed that this is was for my own enjoyment. Yes. And approached it in in that way. All right. Um, so you transformed the challenge in that way?

**Audience Member:**
I think so.

**Bashar:**
All right. So 1, 2, 3. Yeah. And um, so here I am. I I've completed the book.

**Bashar:**
Congratulations.

**Audience Member:**
Uh, thank you. And um, now what excites you?

**Bashar:**
Yeah, exactly. Now there's the the uh, "this or that" that I I hear a voice saying, "Well, I don't want to in 10 years time look back and find that I've not done anything with it. So I should get it published. I should find an editor." Uh, all right. So are you placing conditions on yourself or are you simply being excited about those particular ideas?

**Audience Member:**
I would say the latter, without any expectation that anything has to come to fruition.

**Bashar:**
Well, that's not so much... that's the catch. Yeah. I mean, I can tell that story and some VI I believe. But um, there's an undercurrent. There's... do you understand that the expectation—and by expectation we mean insistence on something working out in a particular way—mhm. Do you understand that that's what expectation means when we use it? Insistence that something has to come to fruition in a particular way. Things will always come to fruition, just not always in the way your physical mind thinks they should. That's why if you actually insist on it coming to fruition in a particular way, you actually close the doors to all sorts of other ways it could actually come to fruition. Because you're placing conditions and limitations on how your higher mind could actually deliver the true manifestation that you need, whereas you're focusing on what your physical mind thinks it wants.

Right. So if you understand that by having that expectation, by having that insistence, you're actually short-changing yourself, one would think you would let that go and let yourself expand into the willingness to allow the higher mind to bring you what you need through other doors, of other manifestation, of other ways of coming to fruition. Instead of insisting that this must happen and now this must happen and now this must happen. If you are willing to just act on any component of this idea with the idea that just being that and acting on that is what excites you, without the insistence that it must lead to this or lead to that or come to fruition in a particular way, then you won't Short Change yourself. You won't cut yourself off from all the way that it could manifest, which might be many times greater than your physical mind was capable of perceiving. Mhm. Yes, yes. That makes sense.

Well then, if you understand that, why would you keep hold of the limitation and short chain yourself?

**Audience Member:**
I don't keep hold. I grab hold and then I Let Go.

**Bashar:**
All right. Well, why would you ever even grab hold of it? Why would it be even a part of your vernacular?

**Audience Member:**
You know, I think I I do that um, in spite of my natural intuition.

**Bashar:**
But the only reason you would do that against your natural intuition is because your motivational mechanism must be connected to belief systems that have turned it around backwards. MH. All of you have the same motivational mechanism. It works the same for everyone. You will always move toward what you believe is more beneficial, and you will always move away from what you believe is not beneficial, is less beneficial to you. If you are recognizing that you're actually continuing to choose something that is truly not beneficial, but you keep choosing it, then that means you've attached a belief to that thing that for some reason you've invented makes it actually appear more beneficial than the alternative. Even though you might empirically or intellectually know the alternative will be more beneficial. If you don't choose it, then you haven't attached a belief to it that makes it appear more beneficial to what it is you're choosing. So you have to find out what that belief is and Detach it from the motivational mechanism. And once you do, and put your belief system in alignment and in the direction of what you instinctively truly know is in your best interest, that will be the direction you move in. Those will be the choices you make. That will be the behavior you exhibit. That's the only way that can happen. Is if you have belief systems that are polarized to the opposite ends of your motivational mechanism. Yes? Yes. Yeah.

So again, if you really understand this concept, understand that's how the Machine Works, understand that that's the nature and the structure of existence, then you will simply use it. If you don't use it, you don't understand it. Yeah. Clear? I clear. I think I understand it. And a few months ago um, I started writing another book which is about a third of the way through. Yes. And game most of the time I'm I'm comfortable with that. It just seems to be...

**Bashar:**
But we're not talking about the times you're comfortable. We're talking about the times you're not comfortable. Yeah. Right. Right. Therefore, the question Still Remains: what reasons do you invent for choosing to be uncomfortable in your relationship to that circumstance? What conditions and expectations and insistences are you placing on it? What beliefs are you defining it with that choose you, in that sense, to feel uncomfortable with?

**Audience Member:**
Yeah. A consensus reality that says you should be...

**Bashar:**
Consensus reality? I have a secret for you: you're the only one in your reality. Okay. The only one. The only way you can experience what you call consensus is by agreeing to with everyone. But it's your everyone. But it's your reality. It's your universe. So you get to say what makes sense for for you. No one else can tell you that. And you know that. Mhm. It's really truly your Universe. Really truly, you're the only one in it. But you agree to create the apparency of sharing a universe with other beings. A Multiverse, if you wish. But it has to be done by agreement. So if you simply no longer choose to agree with those ideas that are offered to you by other beings in other universes that don't work for you, then it won't matter what anyone else suggests. You will know whether or not it works. You can thank them for their advice and their offer and their perspective. And and at the same time, you can say, "This works for me. This does not work for me." End of story. Okay. And it's as simple as that. Yeah. Yes, yes. No one else is living your life. No one else is living your life. You are unique and you get to say what works for you. Right. And consensus reality is your creation anyway.

**Audience Member:**
Yes, it is.

**Bashar:**
So stop arguing with yourself. Okay. Um, another part of that is that um, I've shared this with very few people, but whenever I read a passage to my wife... yes. I'll read a paragraph or so and then I'll just choke up with emotion. Yes. Um, which kind of indicates to me that the what I call quote "the characters in the book," yes, are um, how do I say it? More than fictional.

**Bashar:**
We understand. As we have said, every form of Consciousness is actually autonomous on some level. However, the idea of writing, the process itself, The Experience itself, is also cathartic for the writer. It's part of your own therapy to bring out the aspects of your own Consciousness that are represented by the character and to integrate those aspects of your Consciousness within the greater being that you are. So that you can start being more holistic. Yes? Yes. Yeah. So of course it's holistic. Yes, yes. Yeah. So of course it's going to process. Yeah. And when you get choked up and shed tears that are those kinds of tears, and you're letting go of ideas that don't work for you anymore, letting go of beliefs and definitions that are out of alignment with your true self, the tears literally contain the chemical constituents of those beliefs. And you're washing them out of your body. Literally. So those are what you call tears of joy.

**Audience Member:**
Yes, yeah. Very much. Does that help you tremendously?

**Audience Member:**
Then I will say to you right on. And I'll say to you all right. Thank you. Thank you. [Applause]

### Question 9: Law of Attraction and Age

**Audience Member:**
Hello. How you doing?

**Bashar:**
Perfect. And you the same way here.

**Audience Member:**
I just I just came here wanted to know how you could um, like how could like you like Master the The Law of Attraction? Like the Law of Attraction needs to be explained very clearly in the following way. Again, this has to do without moded definition. Most of you have been taught, if you've been taught anything about the law of attraction at all, that you have to be a certain vibrational frequency to attract certain things that are representative of that vibration. And that is not incorrect, but it is an incomplete definition. It is an incomplete understanding.

This is how the Law of Attraction actually works. You understand that you have already a core natural vibration that represents the unique you that you are. Yeah? Yes. Yeah. That core frequency beams from you all the time, just like a lighthouse Beacon. You can't help it. You're always radiating that core vibration that represents the true natural you. Everything, everything that is in alignment and is reflective of that core vibration is doing its best to get to you. Everything that is not representative of that core true vibration is doing its best to get as far away from you as it possibly can.

The things that are out of alignment with your true vibration that seem to still stick around is not because you're not attracting what is in alignment. It's because you're not letting go of what is out of alignment. Everything that is attempting to get to you that is in alignment, if it's not coming to you, it's not because you're not not attracting it. It's because you're keeping it at Bay with your beliefs.

So the idea of the law of attraction is not that you have to learn how to attract. It's not that you have to necessarily be the vibration of that thing in order to attract it. Precisely, though there is some truth to that. But more fundamentally, the idea is: just stop keeping away the things that are trying to get to you that are representative of your true vibration. And stop holding on to the things that are not representative of it. That said, the law of attraction is really all about just letting go and letting in. So just like forget about it. And just like, all right. If you want to put it in what you call a New York modality: yes, forget about it. Forget about it. Okay. Okay. Just be yourself. Act on your highest Joy. Let whatever belief systems that come up to your attention by acting on your excitement let them Serve You by recognizing that the reason they became conscious is so you could realize that they don't align with you. And in realizing that, know that you have let them go. Because once you identify, once you identify a belief that's out of alignment with your true self, consciously identify it, it will automatically appear nonsensical and illogical because it doesn't belong to you. It came from someone else. And if you're holding on to someone else's belief, that makes you a belief the... give back what doesn't belong to you. Okay. Don't steal other people's beliefs. Once you identify that you've been carrying something around that doesn't belong to you, drop it instantly. And know that you have dropped it instantly just by identifying what it is. Now that you know, and if it's not yours, why would you want to drag it around? Things that don't belong to you weigh a lot. The things that belong to you make you feel light and free because they're in alignment with your energy. It's the things that don't belong to you that drag you down and make you feel heavy because you're attempting to carry around an energy that isn't you. And you weren't designed, you weren't built to do that. So that's why it tires you out. The only reason you get exhausted is because you're resisting the natural self and dragging around things that don't belong to you, which are heavy. Let them go. Run free. Lighten up. The quickest path to Enlightenment is to lighten up on yourself.

**Audience Member:**
Yes, yes, yes. Does this help you?

**Audience Member:**
Yes, yes. It helps me a lot. Thank you. Um, yes, I got another question too. I just want to know how old is you at this particular moment?

**Bashar:**
We are 210. 210. But in another part of this conversation, I might be 137. In another part of the conversation, I might be 244. It depends on what needs to be accessed by my Consciousness and what information needs to come through as to what portion of my total being I will access. Okay. Okay. But generally speaking, generally speaking, my species lives to approximately, on average, about 300 of your years.

**Audience Member:**
Okay. All right. And like like where you stay at? Is it like in this Dimension or like in like this?

**Bashar:**
It is in another parallel Dimension, another parallel reality that can seem just as physically real if you shift there as yours does to you. But it is another parallel reality that's invisible to you unless you shift your frequency to our reality, just as your reality is invisible to US unless we shift our frequency into your reality. Okay.

**Audience Member:**
And yeah. And Y like like like we y like the same like us like human?

**Bashar:**
Or our planet in that sense is similar to yours, although a little bit different. It's a little bit smaller. It has more water. It has more oxygen. You could live there. You could breathe there with a slight adjustment. You might be a little bit dizzy at first because of the high oxygen content. We are approximately 111 million miles from our Star. It is normally temperate all year round. We don't really have seasons. We don't really have an axial tilt. We do not, in that sense, thus then experience anything more or less than about 3 or 4 to 5° maximum above or below about what you would call 70° F.

The idea thus then is that our shape is approximately 5 ft tall. White whitish gray skin coloration. The males have no hair; the females do. It tends to be white. Our eyes are larger than yours. Our heads are slightly larger than yours. Our bodies are, in that sense, thinner in general than most of yours. We are a hybrid civilization that was actually created as a genetic agenda, as a genetic program, between human DNA on Earth and the DNA of another civilization you often refer to as the Grays. Which are not really aliens, but a mutated species of humans from a parallel reality that destroyed their planet and knew that the only way they could continue their civilization was to find viable human DNA since they could no longer reproduce. And thus then they tunnel into your parallel reality to extract viable human DNA to create hybrid species such as myself in order for their civilization to continue. Does that help you?

**Audience Member:**
Yes. Yeah, yeah. That helped me a lot. Thank you, man. Than you. Little bit of Galactic history 101.

### Question 10: ET Contact Dreams and Marijuana

**Audience Member:**
Hello. Hi Andre. You good day?

**Bashar:**
I'm doing all right. I'm a a recently new fan. Speak up. Speak up.

**Audience Member:**
I'm a recently new fan. I've been paying attention to a lot of your work on YouTube. I just want to uh, thank you. And I really appreciate the work that you're doing.

**Bashar:**
You are welcome. And also it is our pleasure. Uh, on not uh...

**Audience Member:**
I had two questions and you already you already answered them before I how synchronous of you. Yeah. That that was beautiful. So I have another one that's kind of deeper for me. Um, I recently been watching your work on uh, ET contact. Yes. And when I was young, I used to have these dreams. Uh, I used to Y. I had these dreams and I would uh, see it extraterrestrial. And yes, many of those dreams are memories of actual contact. And it was so intense like I wanted to speak but I couldn't. Yes. And I many people in those experiences experience what they call paralysis for a while. But that's just because you are shifting dimensions and don't understand how to move in that Dimension yet. Okay. That's crazy.

**Audience Member:**
Okay. Okay. All right. I will assume you mean crazy good.

**Audience Member:**
Yes, yes. Of course. Uh, I used to be scared. But recently um, studying up on it, I'm I'm not really scared too much. I've been...

**Bashar:**
That's all right. You educated yourself and now you know you don't need to be scared. This is all part of something you agreed to on a higher level. And we thank you for your participation in that program.

**Audience Member:**
Okay. Well um, recently I've had a a more crazier dream. Oh, more crazy goodness. Yeah. All right. Um, I was in a dream and um, it was a whole lot of different stuff going on. But then uh, towards the end of it, I I looked to my left and I seen uh, the head of uh, I say ET, yes. And um, out of his mouth were coming bugs. And it it just looked like it was decaying. And I I felt kind of sorry for it. You know.

**Bashar:**
Well, it wasn't literally happening. It was a projected idea, a symbol of something going on in the communication between you to give you certain information. It wasn't literally happening. It's a telepathic connection that is often depicted in pictures in that way.

**Audience Member:**
So my question would be um, how do I enhance that connection and try to work on...

**Bashar:**
Are you acting every moment that you can on your highest excitement in life?

**Audience Member:**
Yes, sir. Well, yes. I mean, yes. And then no. It ties it ties to the first.

**Bashar:**
So in other words, the actual answer is no. Yes. Not every moment. Not every moment. Just all right. Well, the more often you choose to do so, the more you will allow your life to be perceived by you as unfolding in the way that it needs to bring you any other information you need about everything going on in your life. So just continue to act on your highest Joy with no expectation as to what the outcome ought to be. And you'll be in the correct frequency to act as the most receptive antenna for further information when you're ready for it.

**Audience Member:**
Okay. Well, I would say um, the only thing I'm not ask acting in my highest joy in is my relationships. Um, so I normally get with someone and I try to bring them to my, you know, my world where I'm at uh, intellectual knowledge and stuff like that. But...

**Bashar:**
Well, you can share whatever you wish. But why would you want to make someone change if they don't prefer to?

**Audience Member:**
Um, ties in the woman to get married and settle down. I want to have that type of partner like on the same...

**Bashar:**
You will not attract such a partner until you are the person you would marry yourself. [Laughter] It makes a lot of sense. That that strike a core?

**Audience Member:**
Yes. A lot.

**Bashar:**
Okay. All right. Then you have your answer. Yes, sir.

**Audience Member:**
Just one little question. Yes. This is personal. Right here. Um, I don't know. Well, you are familiar with the uh, met... marijuana. I want to know is it is it um... I know it has healing properties. But I want to know cuz I'm for it, but it's I know it's a lot of people that says it's negative. Uh, what do you think?

**Bashar:**
It depends on how it is used. The thing in and of itself is not negative. It is a natural extension of your world. It is for the purpose of allowing, as a permission slip, insight into different dimensional planes, different levels of thought, different perspectives. If it is used in a positive way, it will always have a POS positive result. But it can be used like anything in a negative way, thus resulting in a negative experience.

The idea of the particular plant you are referring to as marijuana is actually the first stepped-down translator or Ambassador, if you will, from the plant kingdom below the template level reality, the blueprint level reality, where you actually design your physical reality. Then stepping that down, you will find that marijuana is of the particular frequency that is the frequency that represents stepping the blueprint down into physical materialization. That's why when people on your planet use that particular substance, they are taken to a place where the reality starts to have a different perspective and starts to melt and flow in a different way. And the sensation of solidity is much weaker because you're seeing yourself, in a sense, and your Consciousness much closer to the template level reality, which is not exactly physical. Does that make sense?

**Audience Member:**
Yes. Does that help you?

**Audience Member:**
Yes, it does.

**Bashar:**
Remember that all these things are guides and teachers. And when used in a positive way, paradoxically, the idea is: if it is being used as a guide and a teacher, one of the things it teaches you is that once you have experienced that state of being, you're capable of Simply replicating that state of energy anytime you wish without necessarily needing the physical substance from that point forward. So so the idea of using it and using it and using it and using it and using it as a crutch is a negative way to use the idea that you can't get there without it. Is a negative way of looking at it or defining it. The idea that it's teaching you how to learn to be in that state yourself without it is the point. Okay. And thus then, once you are allowing yourself to vibrate at that energy level on your own, you will actually find you're more capable of communing with that plant telepathically. And it can teach you much more than it can if you actually physically use the substance. Because now you have attained a different level, a more refined level of the vibration. And once you're in communion with the plant on that level, a whole new dimension and a whole new world opens up of information to you. That's why you instinctively say you get "high." You actually need to raise your vibration to really get high without using the substance. H. Once you know what that feels like, once you know what the state of being is, all you have to do is remember any time that you felt that way. And you are actually in that state at that moment. Go and talk to the plant and see what happens when you're in that state. True?

**Audience Member:**
Yes. I feel high right now.

**Bashar:**
You're right. All right. You're right. Thank you. Thank you. Bashar. Appreciate it. [Applause]

### Question 11: Vertigo and Mass Consciousness Shift

**Audience Member:**
Hi Bashar. Any of you good day?

**Bashar:**
Hi. A couple of question for you if you insist.

**Audience Member:**
Definely I do. The first one is about something that happened recently. Yes. Such as someone close to me experienced um, few symptoms that we call like vertigo. Yes. Um, so just you mention it as saying that the room kept spinning. And this was for three consecutive days. Oh, not being able sounds like fun. Um, yeah. I guess you know I could have you guess. Well, I had to help him pretty much like walking or going anywhere without being able to right.

**Bashar:**
Well, maybe you didn't need to go anywhere. Maybe you need it everywhere to come to you. Definitely. But what I thought it was interesting is that obviously, you know, the doctor uh, we went to check if the vit everything was good. And he didn't find any problem. So they just gave him a motion sickness medicine that did not help. So he just went away on his own. Yes. What I found interesting is that just a couple of days later, as someone else cl to me called me from Italy and H share with me the fact that for the past few days they and they use this word: "the world keeps spinning." Yes. And they the same type of experience. So I don't... spinning up your frequency? Yeah. But since I don't believe in coincidence, I was wondering what is happening. If is this some type of symptoms that happen?

**Bashar:**
It is a typical symptom of raising your vibration, of expanding your Consciousness, that you become more sensitive to higher energies. And sometimes it takes a little time for you to acclimate. When you start to acclimate, when you start to go through the process of acclimating to a higher frequency energy, one of the symptoms can feel like spinning up.

**Audience Member:**
Okay. And is there any way I can assist them in?

**Bashar:**
Act on your highest excitement. It's the complete kit. Act on your highest excitement. It's the driving engine and the organizing principle of everything that needs to happen in your life. It's a holistic kit. It has all the tools. Just do that. Everything that needs to happen will happen if you keep acting on your excitement with no expectation for what the outcome ought to be. That's the complete kit.

The fact that you allowed yourself to connect to another person experiencing the same thing shows you that you are connected on that level. Thus then, you are making yourself more aware of more of the energetic connections you already have. You're making those connections visible, tangible, experiential. When you go to a higher level, you start to really feel, see, experience all the web of energetic connection that you have. So this is one of the symptoms of ramping up your vibration, upgrading your frequency, so to speak.

**Audience Member:**
Yes. Okay. Understand. Thank you. All right. Now the second question. I guess maybe it's more a clarification. Today I'm speaking not just for myself, but for the person who incarnated as my mother. Which who like I'm on this adventure in finding and remembering who we are. Yes. So there is this thought in the past few years, and especially in this past six months, that keep poing up in my mind frequently, frequently. Uh, that is say that your name is universally known.

**Bashar:**
So my name is universally known? Not just me, but you know, for each of us?

**Audience Member:**
Yes. And what I understand that to be is that uh, higher frequency being are able to tell um, you know, recognize our unique vibration and know where we are each at every every given time and what we're up to.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Higher frequency consciousness recognizes individual patterns and vibrations in much the same way that as you walk through a garden, you recognize individual flowers and colors and properties.

**Audience Member:**
Okay. That's what I thought. And uh, lately I've been feeling as if it's not just the thought, but now it's like he's a being that is inviting me to remember the agreement that I've made before incarnating here. And yes. And I feel uh, that this being is actually one of those spy we were talking about before. That I Envision as like a higher vision of myself. Yes. I feel like sometimes I can even get glimpse of it like when I look at myself in the mirror.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Again, that's another symptom. When you expand your Consciousness, many times you'll actually be able to see like an overlap, like a double or triple or quadruple or whatever exposure some of the other beings to which you are connected simultaneously. You're receiving the information in a visual way.

**Audience Member:**
So then my question to you is: what resources do I I have or um, what definition do I have to work on to be able to access that information and remember the agreement that I made before?

**Bashar:**
You don't necessarily have to remember the agreement in a particular fashion. Whatever themes, whatever challenges are the greatest challenges you face, that is usually representative of the agreement and the theme that you made to explore in this life.

**Audience Member:**
So so I should look for them in my challenges? That's where I should be able to...

**Bashar:**
Yes. Look for the theme in your challenges. That's why you have challenges. Because those are the themes you wanted to explore. Those are the things you want to transform. So that is a description of who you have defined yourself to be as a being on this journey, in this process. But please also remember: the journey is the destination. You're not trying to get somewhere. Where you are is where you need to be. And a full appreciation of that is the point. The journey is the destination. The process is the goal. The Experience itself is all there is. Okay. Does that help?

**Audience Member:**
Yes. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. And I'd like just to add that I'm really looking forward to be reunited with all of you and our Gala family. I'm excited.

**Bashar:**
We are looking backwards to it. [Applause]

### Question 12: Tipping of the Scales and Indicators

**Audience Member:**
Hello Bashar. I KN you good day.

**Bashar:**
I'm really excited.

**Audience Member:**
Oh, thank you. Yes. About this idea that the mass Consciousness is Shifting be slightly more positive than negative. Yes. Tipping of the scales. Tipping of the skills. Yes. So I'd kind of like to amp that up.

**Bashar:**
Oh, all right. Go right ahead. Don't let us stop you.

**Audience Member:**
So I'd like to know uh, how long has it been going on that it has been more negative than positive?

**Bashar:**
Thousands upon thousands of your years. Thousands and thousands. Since the idea of about the mid Atlantean point in your history. So approximately, shall we say, 20 to 30,000 years.

**Audience Member:**
Wow. Wow. That's a long time if you say so. And now I'd like to know uh, this so and now I'd like to know uh, this after the Tipping Point, which is really exciting to think about. Yes. Uh, what are some of the things that might uh, what are some indications? What are the things?

**Bashar:**
Depending on what part of the wave, what frequency of the wave of positive energy you are riding, you will experience more and more of the symptomologies we are describing. Time and space will become more flexible, bendable, malleable. That will be one of the strongest symptoms. Synchronicity will become far more prevalent. That will also be a very strong system of the acceleration. You understand?

**Audience Member:**
Yeah.

**Bashar:**
Now please understand: you're not actually accelerating. You're already moving at infinite speed. What's happening is you're becoming more aware of that fact. So you experience that awareness as acceleration. Yes. Right. See the difference?

**Audience Member:**
Yes. Thank you.

**Bashar:**
And one other important thing we have also recently begun to talk about: the idea of physical reality starts to take on qualities that are are not so solid. You start to understand that what you perceive as physical solidity, solid solidity, solid objects, only appear solid. Now I understand the scientific explanation, but that's not the point. Because even your scientific explanation is still, in a sense, a symbolic representation of higher energy Consciousness states of being. The idea, if you can allow yourself to wrap your imagination around this: what you call the experience, the sensation of solidity, is actually you using your indestructible nature to create an experience that seems solid. This is an indication that you are indestructible. Do you understand? This is translating into your Concepts. Yes. What you call solid matter, cuz you know it's not solid, not really. So what gives it solidity? Is You. By simply imbuing it with your indestructible nature as a spirit, as a Consciousness. That's what solidity is. Does this help?

**Audience Member:**
Yes. That helps.

**Bashar:**
So all of these and more will be the idea of the symptomologies that are experienced in the Tipping of the scales and the accelerating of more and more more positive energy as you shift through more and more series of parallel realities that are far more representative of the vibrational change you have made within yourself.

**Audience Member:**
And what kind of changes might we... those are individual experiences. On a mass Consciousness level, what kind of changes?

**Bashar:**
It's all the same. It's remember, as we said, you never actually change the world. Right? You simply take yourself, you shift yourself to another series of parallel realities that are already more representative of the vibrational change within yourself. Which means that that parallel Earth simply already contains versions of all the other people that have also shifted themselves to that parallel reality that you've agreed will be your new Mass conscious expression experience. Remember, this is all taking place in your Consciousness. Right? The world isn't really out there. Right?

**Audience Member:**
Yes. Right. Yes.

**Bashar:**
So when you say what changes will take place in the mass Consciousness, again, really nothing in that context is changing. The change is your perspective. So what will take place in the mass Consciousness is to share another perspective of another reality that already exists that's more representative of the change in the agreement between all the individuals in the collective. Does that answer your collective? Does that answer your question?

**Audience Member:**
Um, part not quite. Mass consensus. Mass Consciousness is a consensus idea. Right? You have to share, agree to share a particular experience of a collective reality.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Yes. So when a variety of individuals in that Collective reality decide to shift themselves to a parallel reality that is similar to one you have decided to shift to, you will still perceive each other by agreement. We both have an aspect. We have both decided we have both agreed that we each have an aspect that already exists in that parallel earth that is more representative of the shift we have made within ourselves, the change we've made within ourselves. So you recognize that that's been done by agreement and with everyone in that reality. It's been done by individual agreement to create for themselves a version or shift themselves to a version of that reality experience that's similar enough to the one you chose so that you are within a window of description or definition that allows you to perceive them by creating your version of them in that reality that way. You are told that others have also shifted themselves to a similar vibrational reality. Is that making sense?

**Audience Member:**
That makes reality. Is that making sense? That makes sense. Yes. Right. Did that answer your question?

**Audience Member:**
Um, no. I well, it's an answer. But I'm what are you looking for?

**Audience Member:**
What I'm looking for is I'm looking for indicators. Like the The Tipping, this the Tipping. So what kind of what appearances? What did I not explain?

**Bashar:**
Specific. Do you know what synchronicity is?

**Audience Member:**
I do.

**Bashar:**
So that's one of the indicators.

**Audience Member:**
Okay. More synchronicity. More synchronicity.

**Bashar:**
Yes. That's one of the indicators. More slippage in SpaceTime. I'll give you a concrete example. All right. Sure. This actually happened to the channel. So you will understand that I'm telling you a story of something that actually happened in your reality physically. Yes. Yes. And this is an indication of a slippage in space and time, so to speak. Actually, what it is, in a sense, more precisely, is a skipping over of certain frames, certain parallel realities that the channel simply didn't agree to experience.

Yes. Yes. The the channel, as you say, coincidentally enough, happened to be in the area, generally speaking, that the channel is in now at one time in what you call the past. And was going to meet a friend who would drive to the motel, pick him up, and go to lunch. Yes. Yes. Following me?

**Audience Member:**
Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:**
All right. Now, neither the channel nor the friend knew anything about the area whatsoever. Didn't know how to get to the place they said they were going to go for lunch. So they decided they will stop at the front desk of the hotel and ask the person at the front desk: "How do we get to this place?" The person at the front desk very cheerfully gave them explicit directions as to how to get there. And so they took off, followed the directions, and got there and had lunch. When they were on their way back and they, in a sense, retraced their steps, they suddenly found themselves on your freeway miles away from where they started. And they go, "Wait a minute, how did we get here?" And so they turned around, went back to the hotel, and decided to follow the directions again step by step, which were actually very simple, nothing complicated at all. And found that by following those directions, you can't actually get to the place they got to. But they did anyway. Because they so believed the person at the front desk was telling them the accurate directions, they just got there. But following those directions for most of you would simply not get you there. It's simply not physically possible according to the way you think of physical reality typically. Therefore, those are the kind of slippages in space and time that we're talking about as an indicator of when you're operating in a true in-the-moment state. Do you understand?

**Audience Member:**
Yes. In total trust of whatever information you've been given and you simply act on it in absolute belief, absolute knowing that that is so. And when you do that, then that is so. Period. It doesn't matter what space and time have to say about it. Space and time are your creations. And they will alter themselves and bend themselves in your Consciousness and become very fluid and very flexible when you say truly "this is so," then it is so.

So that is another indicator. And there are many more indicators. One very strong one also will be that what you call the so-called Veil or barrier between the living in the dead not so thick anymore. More communication with Spirit. More understanding, true experiential understanding, that people that have died have not died; they've just walked into another room of a different frequency. And you will still be able to communicate with them more and more and more and more. That's another indicator of the acceleration of energy. Consciousness. Is this helping?

**Audience Member:**
Yes. Thank you. Is that painting a clearer picture for you?

**Audience Member:**
Yes, it is. Thank you very much.

**Bashar:**
All right. Thank you.

### Question 13: Future Self and History

**Audience Member:**
Hi Bashar. And to you, good day.

**Bashar:**
Um, I wanted to let let you know that my voice is getting stronger.

**Bashar:**
All right. Thank you. Thank you. And I wanted to ask a question about um, My Future Self.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Which future self you mean? The one that's immediately relevant to this particular life in terms of this time frame? Or a future self in another reality alt together?

**Audience Member:**
[Laughter] Both.

**Bashar:**
All right. Well, let you slip that in. Both. All right. Well, let you slip that in. What about your future selves?

**Audience Member:**
Um, just wondering: is the future um, necessarily tied to the things that we're seeing in the present?

**Bashar:**
No. You know they're not. The future is Created from the present, but so is the past. Everything exists now. There really is no such thing as the future. Really is no such thing as the past. These are all probable, coexisting parallel realities that all exist right now. When you are a certain state of being, that will determine the next thing you experience. What you call the future, which is simply the same moment in the present from another point of view. You create your sense of continuity. You create your sense of space and time and change. It's a side effect of the shifting of your Consciousness through billions of parallel realities.

So the future, in that sense, isn't set. Although your spirit, shall we say, your soul, in choosing to explore a certain theme—what you might call the idea Loosely of Destiny—May set up the idea of a certain pathway, a certain hallway that your physical self will walk down. But how you do that is really up to your free will. And there are many, many probable ways to experience that hallway. Even though it may be a similar theme from parallel reality to parallel reality, it is truly a separate reality. So it is up to you to determine what your so-called future is by whatever the state of being you are at any given moment. The next logical thing, the next logical continuity progression from that state, is what you will then experience. But as you change yourself from moment to moment, you also change your past. Because that's also an illusion. You're connecting to different train tracks, in a sense, both forward and back. Every time you Orient yourself in a new vibrational Direction, you get not only the Future track but a new past track. Because in linear terminology, in order to actually be a different person now, looking at it TimeWise, you had to have a different history to get you here. You understand? So when you become a different person, you've changed your past. You don't have the same history.

**Audience Member:**
Does this work for society as a whole?

**Bashar:**
It can. Yes. The history of an entire Society will shift when you shift to a different parallel Earth with a different history. Yes. Of course. It's "this and that." Remember "this and that." Every level experiences these kinds of things in their own way. So like the racial and class uh, conflicts that we see existing can just be shifted through. Have you ever had The Experience where you go through an experience and then later on you change radically in some way, shape, or form? And someone comes up perhaps and says, "Say, do you remember that thing that happened 10 years ago?" When you go, "What thing?" It doesn't always mean that your memory is faulty. It may mean that that never actually happened to you. You understand? Okay. And that means that that can actually happen on a massive scale as well. When societies shift in tandem, then they have a different history as a society, as a group, if that's what they agree to experience.

**Audience Member:**
Yes. Okay. So when you take a gun like Karma, which is self-imposed, and um, apply to uh, outdated ideas, yes. So these old-fashioned ideas can just shift?

**Bashar:**
Yes. As soon as you change the definition. As soon as you have a full understanding of how to redefine these Concepts, they appear very differently in your reality. Completely differently. They have a completely different feeling, a completely different way of being understood. They have a different way of appearing. So those that understand that karma is completely self-imposed and is simply representative of the idea of balance of energy and self-awareness and responsibility—which is the ability to respond—then it takes on a completely different tone than those that view the concept of Karma as something that ties them to the past, that anchors them to the past, that means blame, or any of those other definitions. Has a completely different effect in your life and is experienced in a completely different way. When you change the definition of these Concepts to something that is more in alignment with who you prefer to be, and in fact, many of these Concepts may disappear altogether if you define them cleanly enough. You may not even need the concept anymore. There's no reason for you to even have a concept of Karma, so to speak, in the way that you used to mean it. If you understand that it simply means the ability to choose, the ability to respond, the ability to balance, the ability to truly be and see who it is you prefer prer to be, and you're taking responsibility for the consequences of all your choices, then karma in the old way you used to mean it doesn't really play A Part anymore. It's just you being you and being aware of what you're choosing and being responsible for what you choose. That's all it is.

**Audience Member:**
Does the thing go for history?

**Bashar:**
As I said, yes. There is any, any, any version of any history you can possibly imagine is happening somewhere in some coexisting parallel Earth. Do you understand?

**Audience Member:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
Any version of any history you can possibly imagine is actually happening right now on another Earth. If you decide that that's your vibration, ultimately, you may allow yourself to shift to that Earth. And you may find that as now one of the inhabitants of that series of parallel realities, that history that you used to experience no longer applies, never applied to the new Earth you've shifted to. It will simply no longer be part of your Consciousness. It will simply be no longer part of your experience. If you choose to shift that strongly to a reality that's that different from the one you're experiencing now.

Now, sometimes you can do this. Sometimes it's not relevant to do it. Sometimes the continuity you experience is relevant to your theme of exploration, and you won't necessarily break certain things about that continuity. But sometimes you will, because it's no longer relevant. This is in some ways part and parcel of the whole transformational idea: that you transform certain ideas to the point where you simply no longer have to abide by the consensus reality in that way and can shift yourself to a reality that no longer has or never had that idea. It will simply leave you.

See, here's the point: you don't actually know. Because when you create the idea, when you shift to a new present and you create the IDE idea of a new past, in a sense, so to speak, or a new future, how do you know you haven't already done this? How do you know that the history that you think is the history of your world was the history of the world you were in yesterday? Because it's going to seem, by its definition, it's going to seem as if it's always been your history. So how do you know you haven't gone through 10,000 histories in the last week? You don't. You just think it's never changed. You think, "Well, this has always been the way we I learned this history as a child." But you see, you're creating that experience from the present. The instant you shift to a parallel Earth, you will suddenly create memories of having been a child, being taught the history of that parallel Earth. So it will seem as if you've always known that this history was true and it's never changed. But you don't actually know that it hasn't. And in fact, it has.

**Audience Member:**
Does that help?

**Audience Member:**
Yes. So in the future, if I want people to uh, communicate more equally with one another, more compassionate, then I just have to work on my...

**Bashar:**
You just need to be a compassionate Communicator yourself. And allow yourself to know that whatever it is you need to experience and whatever it is you are experiencing is gerine to what you are choosing to learn from. Don't try to change other people. Don't insist on the way a certain reality must play out. Because then you're just putting conditions on the outer reality and not actually changing. You see, the Paradox is that a person who truly changes doesn't care whether the outside changes or not. Because they know the outside is not a measure of what state of being they choose to be. So if you make it conditional—"Well, if the outside changes, then I know I will have changed"—you will never see the outside change. Because you haven't actually changed. But if you say, "I am this, and it doesn't matter what's going on out there," then you've changed. And then the outside can reflect that. That's the Paradox: you have to not need the outside to change for it to more easily do so. Because the measure of change is not whether the outside is changed. The measure of change is whether you respond differently to the outside, even if it still looks the same. That's how you know you've changed.

**Audience Member:**
Okay. Thank you. Thank you for your compassionate communication.

**Bashar:**
Thank you. [Applause]

### Question 14: UFOs, Mount Shasta, and Cats

**Audience Member:**
Hello Bashar. Any you good day?

**Bashar:**
So recently, about two months ago, I went up to this Reservoir in the Bay Area. All right. Um, did you have any reservations about the reservoir?

**Audience Member:**
Um, not really. I was excited to go up there.

**Bashar:**
All right. Uh, my friend who's here with me actually took me up there because he's been seeing UFOs for a long time up there.

**Bashar:**
Oh, all right.

**Audience Member:**
So we went up there and immediately started started seeing them. About 5 minutes after we were up there. All right. And at first they look like stars. Most of them. And most of them probably were...

**Bashar:**
Everything you think is a UFO isn't always a UFO.

**Audience Member:**
Well, a lot of them we would focus on were really bright and close up. And they were blinking. And they just start changing colors when we focus on them. And then start moving in the direction that we...

**Bashar:**
That doesn't mean that they are a spaceship. They aren't. Okay. It just may mean that you are changing your frequency in such a way as to receive light in a different fashion.

**Audience Member:**
Okay. Well, then some of them actually would turn into what look like an airplane. And then start going by. But usually when there was another airplane going by it. And I don't know if there were shape shifting into something else.

**Bashar:**
Again, this is relatively rare, although it does happen. You must understand something about the idea a of UFOs: not all of them are what you would call nuts and bolts ships. Thus then, some of them are interdimensional aspects and projections of Consciousness that can take on many forms. In the sense of the idea that there is always going to be an interpretation in your physical reality about what those things are. They may appear to you in your reality terminology to look like certain things, whether or not the ship P shell has actually changed shape. Because that's the way your mind interprets the energy of that Dimension. You will make sense out of it to the best of your ability. And in that context, you're the one that's actually causing the shape to shift, not them. Okay. Make sense?

**Audience Member:**
MH.

**Bashar:**
Nevertheless, on average, on average of all the so-called sightings that are reported, on average about 17% are what you would call extraterrestrial craft. Okay. Rest are different perceptions of different things for different reasons in different ways at different times.

**Audience Member:**
Well, we had another one just appear out of nowhere above, right above the reservoir. Yes. Um, it was dark, so we couldn't see the reservoir, but we could tell where it was. And it floated up to my car. And this was a huge one. All right. Came right up to my car and then it hovered above my car as we like scrambled in my car and drove away.

**Bashar:**
Why?

**Audience Member:**
Well, I don't know. I I wasn't really scared, but it was just... but you drove away?

**Bashar:**
I know.

**Audience Member:**
I didn't feel anything negative. But it just follow... but you drove away?

**Bashar:**
I know.

**Audience Member:**
Well, my friend wanted to get away too.

**Bashar:**
I don't know why.

**Audience Member:**
Why?

**Bashar:**
Well, he's actually communicated with other um, beings that...

**Audience Member:**
So why did you drive away?

**Bashar:**
I don't... he had a bad feeling about it. And I'm like, "Okay, well, let's just go then."

**Bashar:**
That's the point. Right. The idea is that as we said, when you encounter a higher frequency energy, it will often pull to the surface of your Consciousness things that are beliefs and definitions out of alignment with yourself that have been buried in your unconscious mind. And by pulling them to the surface, you will suddenly feel fear. But the fear you feel is not of that thing. The fear you feel is of the belief within your own system.

**Audience Member:**
I know. And I remember you saying that before. And as we were standing there, I I was thinking that, yes. Well, there you go. I don't want to run.

**Bashar:**
Then in that sense, you were given a barometer to show you how and what point you are ready for such contact. Right? It's not a bad thing. It's all right that you drove away. Don't berate yourself. Don't judge yourself. But the point is, is you were given a very clear indication of how ready you were or not. Right. Makes sense?

**Audience Member:**
Yeah. All right. So that one was a projection of a higher dimensional Consciousness. There was actually other two other ones that flew over right before that that looked exactly the same as that one.

**Bashar:**
Yes. So I'm assuming that's the same kind of ship. And do you know what kind of beings that was?

**Audience Member:**
To some degree, this is a combination of things. But one of the primary vibrational frequencies in it is what you would refer to in your nomenclature as Arcturian energy. Okay. Because it's representative vibrationally of what you call the 11:11 Gateway, which is the filter of resonance of the true self. So that when you pass through it, on the other side, nothing is left but your true vibration. So you were given an opportunity to walk through that gate. You stuck your toe in. That's a good start.

**Audience Member:**
So if I go up there again, I up to you?

**Bashar:**
Safe? Up to you. Of course. Sa?

**Audience Member:**
Okay. Well, I just didn't know cuz it seemed like there were so many UFOs up there. I didn't know if there was different kinds of there.

**Bashar:**
Not that many as you think. Okay. Um, well, he says that he's communicated with the p... let's put it to you another way: in most cases, many of the UFOs individuals are experiencing are simply Unidentified Fearful Objects within yourself.

**Audience Member:**
Okay. Usually I'm excited about them. But all just a reflex. So that we just ran. It's all part of the reflection. It's all part of our friendly service. Okay. So so he wanted me to ask about the Zar. Because those were the one of the the people who communicated with him. And he hasn't be able to find any information on the Zar. It's either S or Z. Z R.

**Bashar:**
What you often experience in your reality is that when you start making contact with higher levels of consciousness, those that you label with a Z or an X will more often than not be your own future selves. Huh? Okay. You begin there to get familiar with the idea, and you move upward from there.

**Audience Member:**
Okay. All right. And I have like just really quick. So as we were driving off, there's a dam, quote unquote, "damn project" that they just put up there all of a sudden. Are you swearing?

**Bashar:**
Maybe.

**Audience Member:**
All right. To me, I just got scared because I just got the feeling that it was government setting up shot, trying to figure out what's going on with...

**Bashar:**
Why are you afraid of that?

**Audience Member:**
Because I I don't trust the government.

**Bashar:**
Then you don't trust yourself. Yeah. I know. You are your governments. Deal with it. Okay.

**Audience Member:**
So then the other thing is: there is is the Bay Area a hot spot for UFOs? Or am I there?

**Bashar:**
There are vortices around the Bay Area, in a sense, what you might call Vortex Transit points. Yes. Okay. But there are many such quote unquote hot spots around your planet.

**Audience Member:**
Okay. So the one that I've been seeing outside of my apartment is probably me just projecting whatever I'm seeing from a star. Like you said, sometimes not always.

**Bashar:**
Okay. Because it's been hanging out there a lot since I was up there. We will not go into that at this time. Okay. We'll just say: Pleasant dream.

**Audience Member:**
Okay. Thank you. [Applause]

### Question 15: Marriage Counseling and Vows

**Audience Member:**
Hello. Bashar. Any you good day?

**Bashar:**
My heart's beating really fast. I hope it calms down a little bit.

**Bashar:**
How exciting.

**Audience Member:**
I want to tell you a little bit about what I do for a living, and then I'm going to ask you a question about it.

**Bashar:**
All right.

**Audience Member:**
I work as a marriage counselor.

**Bashar:**
And how exciting.

**Audience Member:**
And I see individuals and couples, variety of subjects. Yes. And my highest passion is working with individuals as they're uncovering their blocks and their um, belief systems that keep them from their highest U. As I said, how exciting. And invariably uh, when I work with an individual and they reach a higher level of Consciousness, um, their partner starts having problems. All right. So I bring them in together and uh, start working on revamping their relationship agreement. All right. And um, my question has to do with our traditional marriage vow. It seems like it needs to be more fluid or needs to be...

**Bashar:**
Then invent one.

**Audience Member:**
That's what I'm having a problem uh, figuring out how.

**Bashar:**
Why are you having a problem with this? Um, isn't that a fun challenge?

**Audience Member:**
It is a definitely a fun chall. And why can't every individual or every couple decide what their vows are anyway?

**Bashar:**
I'd like that to be the case.

**Audience Member:**
Well, it is the case in many cases. Um, is it not? Are there not individuals or couples on your planet that create their own vows?

**Audience Member:**
The the people that are are there not? Yes, yes. There are.

**Bashar:**
Then problem solved.

**Audience Member:**
Um, no. With the couples that I'm seeing, the people that are vibrating at more like a a red level. And yeah, like a lower frequency level. Yes. And the the one that's uh, expanded to maybe a higher VI vibrancy level, the high one you're saying is sort of stuck in old-fashioned definitions, and one has gone beyond them.

**Bashar:**
All right. So so um, the higher uh, vibratory partner can hold the energy of the lower one. But the lower one is faced with a choice. Yes. Either change or match the frequency of the higher level. Yeah. Or not. So I'm I'm wondering: where are we going as a as a is our world vamping to a different traditional marriage? What do you have a similar marriage vow on your planet?

**Bashar:**
No.

**Audience Member:**
Okay. How does...

**Bashar:**
We are all telepathically connected and all in one marriage. Ah. Our vow, if you want to call it that, is to be responsible absolutely and totally responsible—not for anyone, but to everyone—to be our fullest selves. Because only when we choose to be our fullest selves do we thus then allow ourselves to be in a state where we absolutely validate the differences and the fullness of every other individual. And when we validate the differences in every other individual, we all work in harmony. That's beautiful. That's our marriage.

**Audience Member:**
Yes. That's wonderful.

**Bashar:**
Your world, in a sense, can evolve and is evolving towards something similar, though it may still take a little while before you will experience that fully on your planet. But that's all right. You're exploring and examining all these things now on a fundamental level, which is exactly what you need to be doing. Mhm. I'm seeing that. Yes. So thank you for your part in helping people examine these ideas and helping them to know that there are other options that can work for them more smoothly. Very good.

**Audience Member:**
Thank you very much. Thank. [Applause]

### Question 16: Patience and Letting Go

**Audience Member:**
You hello Bashar. And a you good day.

**Bashar:**
Um, I wanted to thank you for saying what you said about fear. Because I noticed that in my question, and then I noticed what beliefs were behind the question. Thank you. So I have a slightly different question now.

**Bashar:**
All right. Thank you for your transformation. Thank you for noticing it. Transformation. Thank you for noticing it.

**Audience Member:**
Um, I wanted to I was hoping you could redefine the word patience. Because I you don't need patience.

**Bashar:**
Um, the only reason you need patience is because you're impatient. If you are doing what you love to do every moment, what do you have to be patient about? You see what I mean? About no longer needing certain definitions when you understand the nature and structure of your true existence. Certain Concepts just go by the wayside.

Now, we understand that in a colloquial sense, in a lighter sense, patience can simply be the idea of someone simply being in perfect balance with what's going on and not being in any particular hurry, and accepting and allowing everything that's happening. But that is the whole idea of living in the moment. But the idea is that they're enjoying that. So it's not like they need patience because they're just having too much fun doing whatever they're doing, being in the moment with whatever is happening. They don't need patience because patience implies you're waiting for something else better to come along. And they know there is nothing better than what's going on right now. And they fully engage with it. So patience doesn't even come into the equation. Because they are never impatient. Because they're never wanting to be anywhere other than where they are. Does that help?

**Audience Member:**
It does. Um, I'm wondering then: how how is it we let go of the things that aren't our true self and and...

**Bashar:**
Well, as we said, why would you want to drag them around? They're tiring. They're exhausting. They weigh you down. They have nothing to do with you. Why would you want to do that? Why don't you go out and find a 50 lb concrete block and start carrying it around everywhere? Why would you want to do that?

**Audience Member:**
I have no idea.

**Bashar:**
Exactly. Neither do we. So when you get to the point where you finally look at the things that don't belong to you and finally say, "I have no idea why I keep carrying this around," you'll drop it. But the only reason you would keep carrying it is you think you need it. You think it serves you somehow. And you're afraid to let it go because of the belief you've attached to it. Because you think it's either going to make you a bad person to let it go, or someone won't like you if you let it go, or you won't do this or get to do that if you let it go. And all these ideas you've attached to these things that really have nothing to do with you. It's exhausting trying to be someone you're not. Be who you are. It's so much more fun.

**Audience Member:**
Yes. It is. It's so much more easy.

**Audience Member:**
Yes. It's it's funny. I notice listening to you, my questions change because the belief that's behind the question...

**Bashar:**
Yes. Gets dropped. That's what happens when you let go of a lot of those beliefs that are not in alignment with you. The whole perspective shifts. You now have a clearer understanding of the nature of the structure of existence. And when you thus then compare your beliefs and your questions against that structure, you see what fits and what doesn't. And it becomes obvious. And whatever doesn't fit, it's gone. And whatever remains is all you need for you. And that's it. That's it.

**Audience Member:**
Thank you B. Does that help?

**Audience Member:**
It does absolutely. Thank you. [Applause]

### Question 17: Mount Shasta and Reading, CA

**Audience Member:**
Hello again for the very first time.

**Bashar:**
Thank you very much. Hello to you for the very first time once again. And thank you once again for everything.

**Audience Member:**
You are welcome for everything. I was wondering if you can tell us more about the mount Chasta area and how we can use that area to accelerate ourselves.

**Bashar:**
It's what you might euphemistically refer to as the crown chakra of your planet. Why don't you just go and explore and see what you find?

**Audience Member:**
Oh, I have been. It's exciting.

**Bashar:**
Well, then what do you need to ask me about?

**Audience Member:**
Well, well, I actually thought it was the root chakra. Am i m?

**Bashar:**
Okay. Crown. Although of course, in keeping with what we were talking about "this and that," right? Because every Vortex contains all vortices energy. The idea, however, is that generally speaking, as we look at the collective consciousness of your planet, most consider it to be the crown chakra energy. And what we have recently said is: when you look at the idea of the mountain and you imagine the idea that above it is an inverted version of it going up, then you have a depiction of the non-physical Crown chakra above your head, which is a cone pointing downwards, expanding upwards. Yes? Yes. So I'll give you that hint. Then go and play in that energy and see what happens. Okay. With that idea, look at the mountain going up to a peak and then see an inverted idea from a peak expanding out outward. That being the crown chakra of the entire planet.

**Audience Member:**
Okay. Yes. I will do that. Yes. And um, what about the cloud formations that are usually very interesting happening around there? Can you tell us anything?

**Bashar:**
Well, in many vortices, there are all sorts of electromagnetic anomalies that will have an effect on your weather patterns.

**Audience Member:**
Okay. But what I'm seeing is not necessarily anything other than the weather patterns being affected.

**Bashar:**
I didn't say that. No. It can be. Sometimes it will simply be an electromagnetic effect on the weather. Sometimes it will be something else. It depends on what state you're in. It depends on what's relevant for you to perceive. As one of your famous psychologists and psychiatrists said: "Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar." And sometimes it's a cigar-shaped ship. But not necessarily as often as you think.

**Audience Member:**
Okay. Um, let me put you in this Frame of Mind, If you're willing to share this.

**Bashar:**
Sure. We have from time to time shared with you what you might, if you wish, euphemistically call Bashar's rule of thumb with regard to UFOs: if you can't absolutely unequivocally, without a shadow of a doubt, tell that you're looking at an extraterrestrial spacecraft, then you're not. Even if you are. Because what's the point of wondering?

**Audience Member:**
I wasn't sure if I was implying that to begin.

**Bashar:**
I know. Okay. But some others were, of course. And I'm addressing the group nevertheless. There are many things to see. Sometimes you can actually be seeing through a Vortex into another reality in those electromagnetic disturbances. Yes. Yes. And many other kinds of things. What do you perceive yourself with the clouds?

**Audience Member:**
Yes. Um, it seems like they're just drawn to the peak of the mountain and they like to hover around it in circles.

**Bashar:**
All right. And so what does that symbolize for you? Um, why did you bring it up?

**Audience Member:**
Because I'm very intrigued by the area. And I recently moved closer to the area. And I just want to know more about it. But the idea is that you imply that you were perceiving something other than a cloud.

**Audience Member:**
Well, also when you run on the mountain, um, it feels Hollow. So I wonder if the town of Atlantis really is living under there.

**Bashar:**
No. Not in the way that you think. Right. But that type of Consciousness is present in that. Any Vortex can, depending upon the energy and vibration in which you enter it, lead to other dimensions that you might think are actually physically in your planet. But in fact, you've actually shifted to another reality altogether. Just because many of the entrances happen to be Underground on your planet doesn't mean that you're still Underground when you walk through that Gateway. Make sense?

**Audience Member:**
Um, many of the civilizations that people have said exist in a hollow Earth don't actually exist in a hollow Earth or under the ground on your planet at all. But if they have crossed through a doorway, a dimensional Gateway, into another reality, they may think that they're still under your earth when in fact they may be in a completely different reality, a completely different dimension. Yes. The other dimensional beings may think that yes, but they're not actually literally in your physical plane inside your Earth. Okay. Kind of like When We're Dreaming, we can't tell the difference necessarily.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Exactly. You can't necessarily tell the difference that you're no longer on your planet. So many people think that you are. When you encounter those other beings, they seem to be inside the Earth. But that's just your interpretation because of your assumption of how that Gateway is connected to your planet. You've actually shifted to another reality altogether. And if somebody were to follow you in that gate, follow you through that particular area, and actually enter a cave or a small Hollow in the earth, and you've shifted and they don't, you would actually have disappeared.

**Audience Member:**
That's fine with me too. Yes. Um, is the area of Reading California at all affected by that type of energy? Or is that totally different?

**Bashar:**
It is to some degree contained within that Vortex, although it is somewhere near The Edge.

**Audience Member:**
Can you tell me anything else about the energy of reading?

**Bashar:**
One Moment. In what you call a time frame that you would relate to as somewhere between 300 to 1,000 of your years ago, there exists in that area—or existed, if you wish to use the colloquial term—a small band of indigenous people that understood something very, very clearly about the idea of the Shasta Vortex. They were able to use it in a certain way to expand their Consciousness and communicate with beings in other dimensions. Very clearly in and around the reading area, there is still a stone that they fashioned very specifically to be representative of the vibrational frequency necessary to commune with those other dimensional beings. And if you will find that stone and touch it and meditate on it, you may suddenly find your mind being filled with Communications from other beings. And some of them may say, "It's been such a long time. What happened to you?"

**Audience Member:**
Any hints about the stone?

**Bashar:**
You'll know it when you see it. Okay. It's larger than you are. Okay. It may be slightly darker than you think. Okay. All right.

**Audience Member:**
I had one more quick question if I can.

**Bashar:**
Yes.

**Audience Member:**
Um, is there any way I can... it's a change of topic. Is there any way I can better communicate with my cat? What is going on with him? Because I feel like he's trying to tell me something. And I Tred talking to him, and it's mostly a monologue.

**Bashar:**
Do you send pictures in your mind?

**Audience Member:**
Um, yes. I need to better develop my skills with that, but yes.

**Bashar:**
If you will send pictures, your cat will perceive them and send you pictures back. Or it may be interpreted in your mind in a variety of ways. However, again, it's up to you to use your imagination to create your own permission slip as to what will work best in that communication. Nevertheless, you understand that cats can more easily see into other dimensional planes.

**Bashar:**
Do you allow yourself to feel like a cat?

**Audience Member:**
I suppose not.

**Bashar:**
When you allow yourself to truly feel as you imagine a cat feels, you will understand your cat a little bit better. So why don't you go and perfect that technique?

**Audience Member:**
That was perfect



# Closing Holotrope Meditation

**April:**
At this timing, allow yourselves to take a very short break, and we will continue this transmission with your holotrope meditation. We're just about to get started now on this last leg of our journey together. Um, as you can see here before you is the Holo. Um, this is a very unique creation. Was created by Kirby Seed and Randall Font. And there truly is nothing like this on the planet except for this particular example of it. It will give you an opportunity to open up your Consciousness and move into a very deep space with Bashar or go into deep space with Bashar. And I just would like to also thank you all so much for being here today and coming and enjoying the information and the accelerated energy that Bash offers. I we really wish the best for everyone as we transition into this new reality. So again, thank you so much for being here. And we really appreciate your time and your interest in this new world. Thank you sh.

**Bashar:**
All right. Al. Let us move forward in this Transmission in the following way. All of you become very comfortable, very relaxed. Allow yourselves to focus on the center of the Hol. This will be a thre part, threep very brief but very effective permission slip meditation ation using the principles we have now transmitted this day of your time to you through this interaction, through this co-creation. As you allow yourself to breathe evenly, deeply, let go of any concerns of the day. Allow yourself to Simply drift, keeping your eyes open on the center of the holot. Allow your music to begin and your lights to go down and the holot to become illuminated. Continue to breathe easily and deeply in a relaxed way. Comfortable. At peace. In Balance. Happy. Free. Allow free. Allow yourself to look at the center of the Holo and know that this is a mirror of all that is looking at itself. The eye of God reflecting back to you, if you wish to use that term, that you are all that is expressing itself as an individual point of view.

Allow yourself now to Simply repeat after me out loud: **"This or that."** "This or that." Look at the center and allow yourself now to let your attention go from the center to the outside of the holot. Allow yourself to go back and forth in any direction from the Center to the outer edge as an expression of the idea of Duality, as an expression of the idea of "this or that." You now experience that dichotomy, that polarity, that Paradox: that even though all things come from the same Source, even those things that seem polarized, they are all one. Yet you experience them separately, individually, for the purpose of creating the structure of your reality experience. You have given yourself the framework called "this or that" so that you may know you have the ability to choose. Go back and forth with your eye from the center to the outer edges and repeat in your mind: "this or that." "This or that." "This or that."

And as you begin to allow the holot to drift into your Consciousness more and more deeply, and as you know it will allow you the opportunity in this space that you are creating, in this vibration and frequency that you are creating now together, an opportunity to rewire your neurological pathway ways, to rewire your brain to be more accepting of the ideas that need to present themselves to you. So that only, only the mest part of the structure, only that amount of the structure that you truly require, is all that will be there. So that you can render and reduce this to the simplest possible form. Nothing extraneous. Nothing Superfluous. No extra baggage. All the extra things drop away. And you are left with the simple structure that serves you best. All that's needed for you to have a full appreciation and understanding of "this or that."

Take a deep breath in and let it [Music] out. And take another deep breath in and out. And take another deep breath in and let it out. And finally, take another deep breath in and hold it. And hold it. And hold it. And blow it out. And repeat after me out loud: **"This or that."** "This or that."

And now allow your Consciousness and attention to to begin to widen, to take attention to to begin to widen, to take in not only the center but the outside. To allow yourself to include other possibilities. To perceive that there may in fact actually be other centers other than the one that appears obvious. That there are many vortices within the greater one. And that you have the opportunity to now be inclusive and expand your Consciousness into a higher perspective, a higher vibration, that while not abandoning the perspective of "this or that," now allows that to be included in a higher perspective, an all-inclusive perspective. An all-inclusive perspective. Repeat after me: **"This and that."** "This and that."

And as you allow yourself to let the holot drift into your Consciousness, you start to blend and start to realize is that all perspectives are valid. That it's just another point of view. That all truths are true. Just another point of view. Just another perspective of the same one moment. The only moment of all that is, of existence itself. And you now expand to include many different perspectives, considerations, ideas, Inspirations. Everything now is both able to be relevant to varying degrees for you. Everything now is capable of being perceived when it needs to be, how it needs to be, as not "this or that" but **"this and that."** And you allow this knowledge and you allow this certainty in, and it floods through you and allows you to relax into the certainty of knowing yourself as all perspectives. "This and that."

Take a deep breath in and make it your own and let it crystallize and let it out. Take a deep breath in and make it your own and let it out. And take a deep breath in and hold it. And hold it. And hold it. And blow into your new reality. A new atmosphere. A new vibration. With absolute certainty that even though you may still continue to use the framework, the simple framework of "this or that" when you need to, when it serves you, you now know that above and beyond it is always **"this and that."** And you will bring that into play synchronistically at the appropriate places and times. Inspirationally. Intuitionally. Automatically. And effortlessly. Everything is "this and that." Repeat after me: **"This and that."** "This and that."

And now as you continue that, and now as you continue to gaze upon the holot and breathe in an easy and relaxed fashion, you perceive all the lines of color and light. And you understand them to be the pathway, the geometric pathway, of the one single particle that creates all things. That is all things. That everything is made of. That there is nothing else. There is no outside. It is all one and the same. **"This is that."** Repeat after me: **"This is that."** "Is that."

And you allow the holot to become an alive, scintilating, bubbling, moving, pulsing kaleidoscope of interchanging, intermingling, intermixing interaction of everything becoming everything else. Of everything reflecting to everything else everything it needs to know to be more aware of all that it is. And this truly now becomes a mirror of you looking back at yourself from all the perspectives in all the ways that are relevant for you. You are all things you need to be to be the individual that you are. You contain all things you need to know to be who you are. You are all things. And you are you. And all is one and the same. Repeat after me: **"This is that."** "This is that."

And there is only the difference that you make. That you define. That you believe. That serves you. And you flow together and melt together and become liquid together in The Crucible of creation. And as you melt, you relax. And you drink it in and breathe it in deeply. Breathe it in and blow it out. And breathe it in and blow it out. And breathe it in and hold it. And hold it. And hold it. And let everything go that does not belong to your definition of yourself. And and even while you let those things go that are no longer relevant, no longer vibrationally compatible, you validate them. You love them. You allow them unconditionally. Because you know they are [Music] you. And even though they are you, you have chosen to experience yourself in the way that you prefer. Through allowance. Through balance. Through integration. Through inclusion. And repeat after me: **"I am that."** "I am that." "And that is me." "And that is me."

Breathe it in and let it out. And relax. And allow yourself to know that as you now act on your highest Joy whenever you so choose, this three-part permission slip—the awareness, the knowledge, the understanding of how to use "this or that," "this and that," and "this is that"—will start to flow along the neurological Pathways of your brain and your body in an automatic, effortless, organized, and perfectly orchestrated fashion. So that you will become artists of this idea of sensing, knowing, and relaxing. And knowing there is no reason to give yourself any reason to be other than who you know you are. Who you know you are. **"This is that."** You are all that is. And all that is is you expressing itself as an individual within all that is. **"This is that."** And that's all there is.

Allow yourselves to relax and drift and float in this knowledge, in this certainty, in this confidence and conviction, and in the clear definitions that will and in the clear definitions that will come. And all the symptoms and indicators of that shift going on within yourself. So that as you shift from reality to reality billions of times per second, you will know that the flow of know that the flow of continuity is coming from you. And shall only be as much as serves you. And you shall allow yourself to become more flexible and more free if you so desire. It is in your hands. It is in your hearts. It is in your minds. It is in your body. It is in your soul. It is in your spirit. It is consciousness itself. For there is no outside. There is only existence here and now. And all that is [Music].

Allow your music to soften. Allow the illumination of the soften. Allow the illumination of the holop to fade. And slowly, and slowly, as you awaken, you have crystallized a new reality and a new you with a new future and a new history and a new now. And you are immersed in a sea of unconditional love. For that is your natural state. Give in to your nature. Be who you are. Our unconditional love to you all. Good day. Your journey of discovery of yourself, of light, of creation, of light, of being, will never end. Joy is yours forever. [Music] Forever. As you blend with all that is, you become all that is. And realize there never has been anything but you.

