---
heading: Part 1
title: "Bashar 2.0"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2011-08-27
icon: Bashar
weight: 603
showdate: true
---



This transmission will be for the purpose of creating an upgrade in your vibration, in your frequency, and simultaneously will be representative of an upgrade in our own vibration, our own frequency.

As we are now passing through the central point in time, halfway through your year of 2012, halfway through the splitting prism, halfway toward the crossing of the threshold, the tipping of the scale from your world going from being slightly more negative than positive to slightly more positive than negative after the crossing of that threshold. This will require now an upgrade of frequency.

And so we will begin to now accelerate this vibration within us. And in radiating this frequency to you will invite you to reflect back to us that frequency upgrade in your own energy to truly begin to let go of those things that have nothing to do with the vibration of your true core self.

Let go of those things that are truly incompatible with the vibration that you prefer of the person that you prefer to be and allow there to be in a sense a simplification, a streamlining of the idea of your definition of yourself, of your definitions of your reality experience.

And so because of this upgrade and this reflection and this vibration we are giving off now and inviting you to reflect, we will call this transmission Bashar 2.0.

You yourselves thus then will upgrade into a new version of yourselves in going through this particular engagement interaction.

And there will be a specific approach to this idea that will have to do with really learning how to redefine more precisely, more specifically ideas, concepts, experiences that you have had in your world, in your culture, in your civilization for quite some time, for thousands of years, but now require a little bit of house cleaning. Little bit of refinement, little bit more of an idea that is compatible with what you call your 21st century, a little bit more futuristic, a little bit more modern, a little bit more contemporary idea of what to define, how to define, and the letting go of old definitions, old concepts.

All of this in a sense, all of these ideas of learning how to take certain examples of concepts and terminologies and names and labels that you have used in the past which are now outdated, now obsolete and how to transform them and replace them with new definitions, new ideas that are far more representative, far more reflective of your current state of being and also more representative of the upgrade to your energy that you will now be creating within yourselves.

This will be most of the curriculum involved in this transmission.

And so because of that, we will begin in a new way with a new approach by saying:

**Good morning class.**

You are now entering a new school. You are now entering a new semester. You are now entering a new level of understanding of education of perception and perspective.

And no longer will we be utilizing those terminologies, those definitions that are outmoded and obsolete that you may have used up to this point, but which belong to a culture and a society that no longer exists on your planet.

This is a new understanding of metaphysical terminology, a new comprehension of how to relate to these concepts and how to apply these concepts in your world in a way that is more adult, with a higher degree of perception of what it is you are doing, how you are doing it, why you are doing it.

And most importantly, a clearer and deeper understanding of the framework of existence itself against which to reflect these new definitions.

Comparing the old definitions to the new definitions and seeing which parts of the old definitions are obsolete, no longer relevant to your reality. So that in using new definitions and letting go of the old ones, you will no longer be held back or bogged down by assumptions which do not serve you as you move forward in your so-called new age of awareness and expansion of your consciousness.

So welcome to day one of the new class where you will upgrade to version 2.0 of yourselves and allow yourself to experience that much more acceleration, that much more clarity, that much more effectiveness in your ability to consciously and intentionally manifest that which is far more reflective of what you prefer and who you prefer to be.

So let us begin by selecting certain concepts that you have been using in your society for thousands of years. And let us examine the definitions you have been using to see which portions of those definitions may still remain that serve you and which portions you may let go of that no longer serve you.

But first let us provide the framework, the essential understanding against which you can in a sense compare all of these ideas, old definitions to see which portions of them will fall away, will not fit with the clear framework, with the clear understanding of the structure and nature of existence, and what portions of those definitions will remain, or perhaps what portions of those definitions need to change so that new definitions can be created that will fit more precisely with that framework, that structure of nature of existence, and thus afford you a much more efficient, streamlined and less resistant experience that you call physical reality.


### The New Book: A Unified Theory of Metaphysics

During the course of what you may call this next orbit, this next year of your time, we will also be beginning to download to the channel this information in a particular way so as to ignite and inspire the creation of a new book that will be called:

**One: A Theory of Metaphysics. A Unified Theory of Metaphysics.**

Which is what you need now in this day and age. A unified theory of metaphysics.

Just as science emerged to some degree on your world from its own so-called dark ages and just as it in a sense organized itself in such a manner, defined itself in such a manner as to create unifying theories, unifying frameworks that can be utilized for all future discoveries to see exactly how and where or if any other further theories fit into this unification into this unifying framework.

So too will we now begin to provide a unifying theoretical framework for metaphysics so that it may come from the darkness into the light with new understanding as a new discipline in a sophisticated and adult grown-up way. So that you may begin truly in earnest to have a new perspective and a new relationship to this concept you call metaphysics.

---

### Redefining Terminology

But which as a term in and of itself may also change because as we have recently said, metaphysics, supernatural and paranormal are terminologies that really are no longer accurately representative of the understanding of these concepts because nothing really is meta. Nothing really is super. Nothing really is para. Nothing really is extra.

Extra sensory is simply a term that indicates that you have been for some time unaware of the fact that your senses are capable of experiencing and perceiving far more than you think. But just because you didn't necessarily have full awareness of this, just because you may have in the past placed limitations upon your ability to perceive what your senses were capable of doing, doesn't mean that now when you discover what they truly have always been capable of doing that you need to label them as something extra.

This terminology, this type of definition actually continues the concept of limitation.

Whereas if you simply understand that what you have heretofore called extrasensory perception is simply sensory perception, natural sensory perception. You will then understand that you don't have to think of it as something beyond your natural capabilities. It is not supernatural. It is not paranormal. It is not even metaphysical.

Your senses exist in a certain format and are capable of perceiving many things. And just because from time to time you may not necessarily use the full spectrum of your senses doesn't mean that when you do you have to refer to them as something extra than what they simply naturally are. They are your natural senses. This is quite normal for you to be able to perceive these things that heretofore were invisible to you which will now become more and more visible as you accelerate and expand your consciousness.

Metaphysics implies that it is something beyond your ability to experience in the physical reality and this is not the case.

So even as we begin to explore and examine class, the idea that these basic terms, metaphysics, paranormal, supernatural, extrasensory, also are obsolete and outdated and begin to use the imagination and the inspiration to recognize how to term these things in ways that now are truly more representative of the path of least resistance, more representative of an inclusivity rather than an exclusivity.

Now that you can begin to use your inspiration and imagination to come up with terminology that is far more accurately representative of the way these interactions, of the way these experiences have always existed, whether you knew it or not.

You will thus then drop the last limitations, the last limiting definitions that hold you back, that create limiting assumptions within your consciousness about what you are and are not capable of.

Because when you place certain kinds of definitions on things such as extrasensory, then what immediately comes into your physical mind's cognition is the idea that you have to do something extra. You have to do something special. You have to do something beyond your normal capabilities in order to create or achieve an experience with these senses. And that's simply not the case.

All you need to do is become more of who you actually already are. All you need to do is awaken into more of yourself and remember more of what it is you were created already to be in order to simply automatically see these senses operating on that level that you heretofore called extrasensory or beyond normal or paranormal. There is nothing para about them. Nothing supernatural about them. They are quite natural.

---

## The Unified Theory Framework

So as we move forward and invent and create and perceive new ideas, new definitions to replace these older limiting ideas and definitions, this will all be done against the framework of the essential essence of the theory, the unified theory.

And just as in science, their unification theories basically involve seeing how what appears to be different things are actually simply different expressions of one thing. So too will this be true of the unified theory of metaphysics.

Although again there may be a different term that will come up other than metaphysics that will be applied to this book and this work but this is the essence of it in your present day language: **One: A Unified Theory of Metaphysics.**

Thus then this unified theory at its core will have the same essential ingredient as does science in its unifying theories and that is as we have said that everything is actually one thing and experienced in a variety of different ways from a variety of different perspectives.

But essentially, if you understand that everything is simply a different point of view of one thing, then you can begin to truly form a core essential principle in this unifying theory. And that thus then is that every definition, every idea, every concept, every relationship, every experience can be held up to the light of this unifying principle that everything is one thing, that everything is here and now.

For that is the first recognition, the first realization.

---

### The Four Laws

If you understand, truly understand that everything is one thing, simply appearing to be different things in different places at different times, but that that is just an illusion. Then your first cognition, your first understanding itself is the very concept of space and time.

Because if you know that everything is truly one thing, if you truly have a clear understanding of that simple statement, everything is one thing, then you will know that the first thing that needs to change is your very definition of space and time itself.

That if truly everything is one thing, then the concepts of space and time really can be compressed down to, can be simplified down to, can be boiled down to its essential components, which is that everything is here and everything is now.

Everything exists here and everything exists now.

Now we understand that sometimes the terminologies may for a time be a little bit confusing and in delivering this information through a translation into your language, there may sound to be a little bit of semantic confusion when we say everything is here and now and yet at the same time use the word time. But do not worry about that. As long as you understand the essential idea that is being presented here, you do not necessarily have to worry about walking on eggshells and watching every single little word. As long as you understand the concept, it doesn't really matter what word you use as long as those words are not becoming assumptions within you that limit you.

So when we say everything is here and now, we truly mean that there is nowhere else. And really space is just a concept, just an illusion.

We will get into a different understanding of this from a different perspective later on in this transmission. But for now understand that this is the first reduction is to collapse space and time to the most simple components which would simply be where you are here and where you are now.

So the idea is that it all comes back down to that framework that everything is one. That existence is all there is and that existence only has one quality: to exist. And that there is nothing else.

And that every experience and every idea and every definition and every manifestation all comes from that understanding that it's simply a different perspective of the same one thing, a different experience from a different point of view of the same one thing which is existence itself.

Creation itself and that it has no other fundamental quality. It has many secondary qualities but no other fundamental quality. Existence exists. It's the only thing it can do.

**This is the first law and there is no way to change that.**

That which exists cannot become that which does not exist because by definition existence exists and non-existence doesn't exist.

Therefore, that which exists has nowhere to go, has no other place to be because non-existence doesn't exist. That's its quality. That's its actual essence. Non-existence doesn't exist. That is its nature. And therefore, nothing that exists can ever become that which doesn't exist because existence only has one fundamental quality: to exist.

Non-existence only has one fundamental quality: to not exist. So if something already exists, it already has exhibited all the fundamental qualities it will ever have and can never change to another fundamental quality.

That which already doesn't exist already fills up, if you wish, non-existence. And there is no room in non-existence for the things that exist because non-existence is already full of all the things that don't exist and never will.

So space and time are collapsed in this picture of oneness of there only being one thing. Space and time are collapsed to here and now.

---

### The Second Law

Let us continue to examine other definitions and compare those definitions to this understanding of simplification that we are now building, that we are now connecting like links in a chain.

Because once you truly have this clear understanding, you'll be able to go through life, you'll be able to recognize any idea and any concept in the light of this unifying theory. And you will instantly be capable of telling what belongs and what does not.

Many people on your planet in interacting with us in this way have to some degree wondered and often times asked, "How do you know what you know, Bashar? How do you see what you see?" To us, this is, as we have labeled it, the science of the obvious.

What we see is simply an observation. We are using the term theory for your benefit. We know this works for us and it is far more than a theory. But we understand that this must be presented to you in the form of a theory in order to get your physical minds engaged in thinking about it in a certain way and coming to the same realizations and observations that our civilization in its evolution have come to. And you will get there.

But you don't have to necessarily be there right away because the process, the experience of understanding it, the experience of getting there is just as important. And so we present it to you this way so that you will have an experience that will actually truly lock in the understanding when you allow that inspiration, when you allow that realization, when you allow that recognition to come.

But for us it isn't an opinion. It isn't in that sense a theory. It is simply an observation.

The analogy that we have used is that when you see a red rose and you are asked what color is the rose and you say red, you know that that's not an opinion. It's an observation. As easily, as effortlessly, as simply as you observe and state that the red rose is red. Observing the structure of existence itself is that easy, that obvious to us. We are just looking and telling you what we're observing. It's not an opinion. It's an observation.

And all of these ideas we are now discussing are based on this observation that creation is simply one thing manifesting in an infinite variety of things from different perspectives and that the different perspectives are what create the illusion and the experience of the one thing being many things.

**And that is why that is the second law:**

**The one is all, the all are one.**

And because the idea is that each of those perspectives is unique, then each perspective which equates to every being, that all that is is being. Each perspective thus then in a sense is a reflection and creating a unique reflection and a unique experience.

---

### The Third Law

**And that is why that is the third law: that what you put out is what you get back** because all you're doing is seeing a unique perspective of the one thing from your point of view being a unique perspective, a unique reflection.

Thus, it all boils down to that.

---

### The Fourth Law

**With the fourth law simply being that everything changes.** And all that means is you have the ability to be different points of view, different perspectives.

You yourself as all that is, as your expression, your unique expression of all that is, of creation itself, have the ability to experience yourself in all the different ways that you've expressed yourself from all the different points of view. You have the ability to observe yourself from all these different points of view.

But that doesn't mean that one point of view is more real than another. It doesn't mean that one point of view is more true than another. What it means is that all points of view are true and all points of view are real because there is only one thing. And thus then all points of view can only be points of view of that one thing. No matter how different they may seem, no matter how unconnected they may seem, no matter how improbable it may seem that this and this can coexist, they are inclusive. They are not exclusive. They are inclusive. They must be because there is only one thing.

Thus any difference must only be a matter of perspective, of point of view, of angle of observation of that one thing. There cannot be another thing that is being observed. There cannot be another thing that is in a sense creating that reflection. There is only one thing.

Thus, that should tell you immediately that while the unique differences are to be cherished and valued and experienced as unique and as differences for the purpose of having those experiences for the purpose of enriching the idea of the infinite complexity of all the different ways that all that is can express itself, by no means are those differences meant in any way, shape, or form to instill a sense of exclusivity in the idea that one is more true, more real than any other.

**The validation of all the perspectives are what truly creates the unity and the harmony of all that is.**

And when you on your planet as a culture and a society find that there are individuals or groups that lock on to one perspective or variations of one perspective and hold that that perspective is the only truth and that everyone else must also believe the same thing that you believe, you are completely and utterly missing the truth of all that is, the grandeur of all that is, the magnificence of creation itself by discounting all those other perspectives as having nothing to do with the one.

But they must because if you understand there is only one thing then the idea of all the differences must when compared to that idea, to that framework, to that unifying concept that there's only one thing, all the differences while cherished for what they are as different experiences must be seen as expressions of only one thing and thus valued and validated as different expressions of that one thing. For they can be nothing else but expressions of that one thing.

And when humanity learns this, then it will not really matter what the differences are in your different belief systems, in your different spiritual systems, in your different religious systems, in your different social systems, in your different economic systems, in your different political systems. It will not matter. You will see that all of them are different experiments, different points of view, different observations, different manifestations, different things to be cherished, different ideas, different perspectives that all together form the true picture of all that is, of creation, of the one thing that exists. And that they must all be taken into account or no one has the whole picture.

So cherish your peace but cherish all others because only by cherishing all others is your own unique perspective equally validated. For without the others your perspective would exist in a vacuum. There would be nothing to support it.

You need the differences to support your difference or nothing can exist.

So if you exist and you have a unique perspective and you find that there are other perspectives that also exist, you must cherish them or you are invalidating your own perspective because your perspective cannot exist without all the other differences to create a context and a framework against which to see your unique perspective because they're acting as a background. Ground for your unique perspective and your perspective is acting as a background for theirs. So that each unique perspective can stand out from that background and be a truly experienced, a fully experienced perspective of all that is.

So it works hand in hand and that is why it is so important and we have said for so long in these conversations and in these transmissions that it is very, very crucial for you to wrap your minds around the concept of **this and that rather than this or that.**

It doesn't mean you can't make choices. Yes, we know again going back to your day-to-day prosaic language that there will be moments when you're going to make a choice between this or that. That's not how this is meant. It is the idea that even when you make a choice between this or that, it is still a choice between this and that. And that even when you make your choice if it is this and not that you don't invalidate that because only by validating that are you capable of choosing this because without that there would be no this.

So allow yourselves to begin to see these concepts in a unifying way by understanding the unifying underlying fundamental principle that there is only one, that space and time are here and now, and that everything, everything, everything exists in that here and now.

It creates a different frequency, a different resonance, a different vibration. And that's how in a sense it is experienced as a different thing that doesn't seem to be interacting with your particular here and now, but it has its own here and now. But that here and now in a sense, even though it has a different frequency and a different resonance, is fundamentally the same here and now with just a difference in perspective.

That's the variable in the equation. You'll create a slightly different style of here and now, but it's the same here and now because there is only here, there is only now. There is only one. But style is the issue. Slightly different resonant frequency that is a different expression of the same here and now.

Because here and now if there is only one and if there is only here and if there is only now then that means the here and now contains everything, infinity. Thus then you can pull from that here and now holographically any perspective, any experience whatsoever that exists within existence because everything that exists in existence is here for the experiencing, is now for the experiencing.

If it were truly otherwise, if it really wasn't here, if it was there, if it really wasn't now, if it was then, you would never be able to reach it. You wouldn't be able to find it because you only exist here and now. So all the things you have the ability to access. And even many things that may not necessarily even be relevant for you to access in this life still exist here and now because you are accessing them in other experiences, in other lives, in other civilizations, in other dimensions, in other realities, in other manifestations. You are accessing all of it. All of it.

The greater you, the all that is version of you is experiencing all of it from all the different infinite points of view. That's how it experiences itself. That's how the all that is knows that it is the one is because it is experiencing itself from all the points of view of all the things. It is in its own here and in its own now. But as all the different perspectives, as all the different experiences, you have the capability as a unique perspective to experience just a unique perspective and thus then fully explore and fully examine to absolute full capacity and absolute richness that unique perspective and experience whatever it is that is relevant to you as that unique perspective in all the ways that are germane to that perspective.

---

## Redefining Old Concepts: The Akashic Records

Now let us continue with the idea of looking at other definitions, other concepts and see how these can also be redefined when held up to the light of this framework.

We have recently talked about the idea that has been so popular in your metaphysical circles for now quite some time that you call the Akashic records. Ooh, sounds impressive.

But the idea really is that the way you refer to these things, the way you refer to this concept, Akashic records, actually brought about the question from an individual on your planet as follows:

"Bashar, yes," I said, "Can anyone access the Akashic records? Are you able to access the Akashic records?"

Thus then when the question is presented this way, it demonstrates very clearly that the way you're actually defining this concept creates a sense of separation as if the Akashic records was somehow some repository somewhere out in the universe or on some dimensional plane that you need some special key to unlock and access.

Think about this for a moment in light of what we have already started to talk about here. If you understand that everything is one and you understand that everything is here and now, then it isn't about the idea of everything that happens being recorded. It's simply the idea that everything that exists exists here and now. And therefore, of course, you have access to all that information. Not because it's recorded somewhere, but because it's here and now alive in present time. It doesn't need to be recorded in the fabric of space and time. It is the fabric of space and time. It is the here and now. It's simply other versions, other perspectives of the one, of the here, of the now.

So by using the term Akashic records, it's all right as a euphemism. But you see, it can mislead you. It can create the misunderstanding that this somehow is a repository existing somewhere in the infinite depths of space and time and how do we find it and how do we access it? You're looking out there for it. You're looking up there for it. You're looking down there for it. You're looking over there for it. You're thinking of it as something that is recorded after the fact as might happen in your technology where something is happening and you're using your camera or your tape to record something and then you can play it back after the fact.

Of course, we know that that's an illusion too because everything is happening here and now. But you can create that linear illusion, that linear perspective that it's actually happening after the fact, that there's a cause and effect, which there isn't. But you can create the experience of the cause and the effect for your own processing purposes, for your own satisfaction, for your own ability to appreciate creation in a unique way.

You can create that cause and effect, but it doesn't really exist. You're making those connections between things that appear to be separate but are simply different coexisting, simultaneously existing experiences that both exist at the same time. One did not cause the other, but you can make it seem as if one thing caused another.

That's why we often say it's not about an end in a sense or a means to an end. The means and the end are one thing, but you can create them to appear to be two things. You can create it to seem as if this means leads to this end, but it doesn't. The means and the end both coexist at the same time. But if you make a connection between them, you can create that experience for your own gratification. But that's simply unique experience of things that exist simultaneously.

And the thing that's new, even though everything already exists as a structure, as a framework, the thing in a sense that is new is your experience of it, your perspective of it. And that experience is the new thing. And that experience is what adds from your unique perspective to the experience that all that is is having of itself in the here and now.

So even though the framework exists and in a sense doesn't change, the experience of the framework does. And that's what we mean when we say everything changes. It isn't that the framework changes. It isn't that the realities change. All of that is laid out. All of that structure already exists and always will. That's the fundamental structure of the nature of existence. And that's why it's easy to see because it never shifts. It never changes. The whole structure is always the whole structure.

But the experiences, the perspectives, the relationship of your unique perspective to that structure is what changes. That's what we mean when we say everything changes. That's the fourth law. It's your experience, your perspective that changes. The structure never does. And that's why the first three laws never change because they are representative of the structure.

You exist. The one is all. The all is one. What you put out is what you get back. That's the structure. The change is your ability to express your unique perspective in relation to that structure. And your experience that you have from that unique perspective is what changes. And that's what creates expansion in creation. That's what creates the idea of infinite expansion because there are infinite perspectives of the structure, infinite experiences that can be had and are being had and will be had and have been had just to use it from a linear perspective.

But again, this idea of the Akashic records now can be seen to be something that is an obsolete term, an outdated term, a misleading term. It isn't records after the fact. It is simply the idea that everything exists here and now. And therefore, of course, you always have the ability, if you're in the right frame of mind, if you're in the right frequency, you always have the ability to access information because information always exists in the here and now.

So there is no need for some mysterious secret repository on some mysterious level of dimensionality. It can be expressed that way. If you wish to have that kind of an experience, that's all right. But don't be fooled by the fact that that's simply a permission slip, by the fact that that's simply an illusion, by the fact that that's simply a convenient idea to make sense out of it symbolically that is relevant to your particular reality level experience. It doesn't mean that it's an actual description of something.

And as long as you assume that the Akashic records are in fact actually recording events after the fact and that you have to access some mysterious realm or some mysterious fabric of space and time in order to download those records, then you will be missing the point that everything is existing here and now and you always have the ability to access it as long as you are of the right frequency to do so. That is relevant to that informational vibration.

So you can begin to see how these old terms can be let go, are obsolete, don't serve you.

---

## Redefining Reincarnation: Simultaneous Incarnations

Let us look similarly at the idea that for thousands of years on your planet people have called reincarnation.

All right, we understand it's an interesting perspective that you have a life and you die and you can be born again in a new body. All right. As an experience, yes, that's valid. And as an experience, yes, it's real. But that's not what's actually happening in the physical structure. That's not an accurate description of the nature of the structure of existence itself according to the framework we have already outlined.

And if you begin as we say to really let that idea and understanding of the structure sink in, then just as we talked about the Akashic records you'll begin to get the inkling that ah, reincarnation is misleading because if everything exists here and now that means that all the lives must exist at the same time too. And if all the lives exist at the same time then it isn't reincarnation. It's multiple simultaneous incarnations.

That's what the experience actually is. And even that's still a symbolic euphemism, but at least it's closer to the mark of how it actually functions. Simultaneous incarnations because it can't be anything else. It can't actually be happening one after the other. Why? Because you understand that everything is here and now. Because that's the unifying framework. Because that's the underlying fundamental theory is there is only one and everything exists here and now.

So by comparing this concept of reincarnation and holding it up to this unifying framework, you will see that the concept "re" must fall away. There can be no reincarnation if everything exists here and now. It can only be that all these incarnations exist all at the same time like different programs on your television. Even though you may be only watching one, you know there are hundreds more that exist at the same time. Even though they're invisible to you until you change the channel to that frequency and watch a different program. But that doesn't mean the program you were watching a moment ago has in a sense ceased to exist. It still exists. You're just not focused on it anymore.

So the idea like that is that all lives, all existences on all levels, in all realities, in all dimensions of creation all exist at the same time, are all being experienced at the same time by different versions and different perspectives of all that is. And that means different versions and different perspectives of you as well.

Your oversoul is having a different experience. Your soul, your spirit are having different experiences. Your higher mind is having a different experience. Your physical mind is having a different experience of the same thing, of the same existence. And all the different lives that the oversoul is having that you are connected to that are going on at the same time. Each of them are having that experience from their point of view.

Because no matter how far you expand, it will always be something happening to you. No matter what experience there is, even the blending as many of you talk about this idea of well eventually we will all blend back into the one, back into the light.

It is not an absorption.

If you understand again that everything is one, that everything is now, everything is here, then every experience that you will ever have will be happening from your perspective, including the idea of blending with all that is and being absorbed by all that is, you will not lose your identity. You will have that experience from the perspective of being all that is. It will always be happening to you.

And this will be true for every single individual perspective.

You will always be waking up into more of yourself. Just like you wake up from a dream now and it seems so real, but when you wake up, you go, "Oh, no matter how real that seemed, that is not me. This is who I am." And when you die, you will wake up in spirit and look back at the life and go, "Oh, well, that was a part of me, but this is who I really am." And when you go on to other levels of reality, other higher planes of dimensionality and density, you will wake up and go, "Oh, well, that is a part of me, but this is who I really am. And this is who I really am, and this is who I really am."

And even at the moment when you experience the idea of the blending of yourself and your identity, no matter what level it's on with all that is, it will still be from the perspective of all of that is part of me, but this is who I am and this is all there is.

And then you will have different experiences of that as well. And it will go on forever and ever and ever because even all that is, as much as it may tax some of your imaginations to think of this and it isn't relevant that you get this completely, even all that is can wake up and go, "Oh, that's a part of me, but this is who I am." And that is beyond your comprehension at this point and even beyond ours and it is beyond every other being's comprehension we have ever met. But we know it's there.

Why do we know it's there? Because it's an observation. It's not an opinion. We can see the structure. And we know by simply looking at the nature of the structure that that must be the case because it is infinite. Infinite. And what is truly infinite contains anything and everything that can be imagined. And if you know that you can wake up into a new you, then you also know that what you call God can wake up into a new you as well.

---

So now you begin to understand Akashic records, reincarnation, all these ideas, these definitions. When you look at them from the framework of the one, the here and now, then you begin to drop all the things that are misleading, that are assumptions that segregate, separate, and exclude these ideas in a certain framework. Not that that framework hasn't served you. Not that that experience of space and time hasn't served you. It does and it still will. But you can lighten up on it. You can allow it to become more malleable, more fluid, more flexible. You don't have to necessarily experience as much limitation.

Not that limitation in and of itself is negative. Watch those definitions. But you don't necessarily have to experience the same kinds of limitations you did getting to this point. But those limitations that you did experience brought you to this point. Brought you to this perspective now where you have the ability to upgrade yourselves, refine your frequency, exist from a higher perspective, see things in a different way as a more advanced class and truly apply this new perspective, this new understanding to the creation, to the experience of your unique reality perspective of the one thing that exists in the here and now.

So that you can compare any idea that comes your way to this framework and say this fits, this does not, this fits, this does not, this fits, this does not. And thus create clearer, higher, purer frequencies of recognition and observation so that you can begin to instantly see what fits and what doesn't, what is relevant and what isn't in your new understanding, your new perspective, your new reflection of yourself and your life experience.

And you can have more joy in this, more passion in this because everything will begin to clarify. Everything will begin to become transparent to you. Even as it is transparent to us like an X-ray, the structure is transparent to us. It can be transparent to you as well in whatever way is relevant to the reality you prefer to experience.

---

## Redefining Psychic Abilities

By continuing to examine older definitions, older metaphysical concepts, as we said, extrasensory perception and comparing them, holding them up to the light of this new understanding, this new framework that it is all about the one, the here and now, and that the only reason things are different is because of frequency. The only reason there are different perspectives is because of frequency of the differences that are created by frequency of that one thing.

Then even the concept you call extrasensory perception can be understood in this framework because again everything exists here and now.

Your ability to access that is a matter of resonance, is a matter of frequency, is a matter of vibration. Like vibration to like vibration, what you put out is what you get back. The third law.

Therefore, ideas that you have held on to, old definitions of such things as psychic functioning, telepathy, ESP can all be brought into this theory, into this understanding as different expressions of resonance, of vibration, of frequency, and thus then accessibility to all the information that exists here and now because you're not going somewhere else to get it. You're not stretching into some deep dark dimension and pulling it from the ethers. It's here. It's now. You're simply shifting your vibration slightly in a way that allows you to access the particular vibration that is representative and reflective of the information that you desire to know.

And emotion is a key because emotion is also a vibratory energy. The emotion, energy, motion. Look at that definition. Energy in motion, emotion. It's the activation. It's the vibration.

This is why when many of your scientists begin to examine the idea in laboratory settings of ESP and telepathy and psychic functioning, they don't often get much except very marginal kinds of effects, very marginal kinds of results because they are actually removing the one thing that is actually the driving engine of all of those experiences and that is the emotion.

They think it's just a mental thing. It's not.

It has to be emotionally activated because emotion is the vibratory resonance of activation. And generally you see the so-called psychic abilities flourish when there is a great emotional requirement for them to do so. And that's why you have all those anecdotal stories of parents instantly telepathically knowing when their child is in danger even though they may be many miles away because it's emotionally activated.

There has to be a telempathic, not telepathic, telempathic connection. And what is a telepathic connection? Again, it's not something that is reaching over distances. Reading minds is not reading minds at a distance. This is a complete misunderstanding. And it all comes from this old-world, outdated, outmoded labeling. It comes from folklore. It comes from euphemisms.

And that is the very ironic thing because even while many of your scientists think they are going about it very scientifically in attempting to prove or disprove the existence of such abilities as psychic powers and telepathy and so forth, they're actually being extremely gullible because they're falling under the spell of the old definitions and thinking that the old definitions, the folklore definitions are accurate representations of these abilities and they're not. So all they're measuring and all they're disproving is the fact that the folklore definition isn't accurate. But that doesn't mean that those abilities don't exist.

As many people on your planet have said, just because you may prove that one twenty-dollar bill is counterfeit doesn't mean they all are. The idea is simply that you have disproved that the folklore is not an accurate representation, not an accurate description. So you've proven that, but you have not disproven the experience itself.

When you start to understand what the true definitions are, what more accurate definitions are, then you'll begin to understand how to observe these things constantly. And you do observe them constantly in your world in a natural setting where you automatically simply know when your friend is going to call you on the phone just moments before they do. This all works because of this resonance, this energy, this empathic vibrational connection and therefore gives you the understanding again held up to the light of this theoretical framework of simplicity that everything is one, everything is here and now and it's all about resonance that creates the different perspectives.

It gives you the instant understanding that when you hear the term telepathy, you know that it actually must be instead of reading minds at a distance, it must simply be the whole principle of like vibration to like vibration. In other words, it's not that you're actually reading someone else's mind. It's that you're operating on a similar enough wavelength that you are having the same thoughts at the same time concurrently.

So you are like tuning forks vibrating in harmony with one another and thus can only have the same thoughts.

That's why such disciplines as neurolinguistic programming also show results like this. For when you get someone to neurolinguistically replicate the body language to a precise degree of some other person, you will find that that person by mirroring them precisely will actually start to have the same thoughts that that other person is having. No matter what they are, they'll start to have the same feelings. They will identify with them to such a degree that they will be expressing the same or similar ideas in the same time frame because everything exists here and now and all they're doing is accessing similarities simultaneously.

And this is exactly what's happening in your idea of the creation of a physical reality experience with other people. Because as we have said, the only way you can experience that you're having a reality with other people is by synchronizing with their frequency and creating your own version of them in your reality out of your consciousness, out of your energy. Otherwise, they would be imperceptible to you, invisible to you. You have to sync up with them at least to a certain degree in order to share a similar reality construct because you're agreeing to because you're on a similar wavelength. That's how that works because again everything is here and now. Everything is one and the only way you can have a consensus reality is by actually all agreeing to vibrate in a similar frequency domain. Yet it is not exact because obviously you have your own unique experiences within that reality domain. But that reality domain has a signature frequency that encompasses you all. That you've all agreed to abide by, that you've all agreed to include in your own signature vibrational equation.

---

## Extraterrestrial Travel and Distance

And this brings us to the idea that again many scientists discuss when it comes up the subject of extraterrestrial beings such as myself and UFOs such as our spaceships. Many have said, "Well, well, well, yes, we know there must be life out there somewhere, but it really can't get here to Earth. The distances are too great."

Again, if you will allow me, the play on words and the pun, distance is just a matter of perspective.

And all the idea of distance is is another vibrational perspective, another frequency. But you know that if everything is here and everything is now, then you will understand that our ships are not really coming from great distances. They're simply making a slight shift in our signature vibrational equation and simply going from one reality, one signature frequency domain to another because we've simply learned how to do that.

So we're not really traveling distance at all. And it's easy to be anywhere because all here's here. All theirs are here. All when are now. Time, space, doesn't matter. Just different coexisting parallel realities simultaneously concurrent.

So you can begin to truly see how all of these different concepts that create exclusivity, segregation, distance, separation are all reducible, capable of being brought down to a simple understanding when held up against the light of that structure.

That simple structure that everything is one, that everything is here and now, and that everything appears different simply because of its frequency, of its resonance, of its perspective, of that same one thing that exists here and exists now.

And when you can gain more proficiency in doing this with every circumstance and every situation in your life and hold it up to that concept, that unifying theory of oneness, you will begin to see all these old ideas, all these old definitions, all these old assumptions drop away from your consciousness. Inspiration and clarity and transparency will begin to come more naturally to you. You will see that there is truly nothing metaphysical, truly nothing paranormal, truly nothing supernatural, truly nothing extrasensory, but it is simply your natural senses in a real reality of experience that you are having right now and that this is perfectly normal. And you are simply waking up to that fact, remembering more and more of who and what you really are as a reflection and an aspect of the simultaneously coexisting all that is.

So thus then allow yourselves to ponder this on your refreshment break and we will resume this transmission with interactions that are live with questions and answers if you wish.

And then once again we will allow this transmission to be continued in the so-called recorded fashion which is still happening live because everything exists at once and then continue again with the idea of what you think of as a live interaction.

And I suggest this. Allow all of the questions and statements that you may have to begin to be viewed in this light of this unifying underlying theory of oneness and simplicity. So that you can begin to gain more proficiency with being transparent to yourself and allowing that transparency to be reflected by creation itself to you.

Enjoy your lunch break class.

---

## Q&A Session: First Interactive Segment

Well, now we're ready for our second part, which is when Bashar comes through Daryl and Daryl goes to sleep, but he doesn't really go to sleep. You know, they tested him one time and all his brain waves get activated. So he describes it as if he was driving a car and then he saw Bashar hitchhiking on the side of the road and he picked him up and he had to slide over into the passenger seat and let Bashar drive.

So okay, so we're going to turn it over to you to drive this vehicle or to Bashar, but first you have to pick some names for us.

All right. So, now it's your turn to do your magic. So, thank you so much for upgrading us to 2.0.

I feel freer every moment and really appreciate for all of us this wonderful opportunity to access another dimension, another dimensional being and all of his wisdom. Thank you, Daryl and Bashar.

Thank you. Hi, everyone. I'm just going to go right into it. Give you as much time as possible to interact with Bashar. So, I will see you later. Have fun. Bye-bye.

---

### Bashar's Opening

I show up and I leave.

I want to say good day to you this day of your time. How are you all?

All right. First and foremost, we thank each and every one of you once again and all of you together collectively for the co-creation of this interaction and the opportunity and gift that you are affording our civilization in having this experience with you to allow us to see through you that many more facets of the multi-dimensional crystal of creation. So we thank you for the gift and let us continue the transmission with our interactions of what you call questions. You may begin according to whatever your imagination now so desires. What would you like to discuss with us this day?

---

### Question 1: Guides Named Bashar

**Question:** It's an honor and good day to you. Speak up and be bold so that all may hear what you have to share. Thank you. I'm an energy healer and a medium. I have about 13 guides in counting. I have one that I picked up in 2008 whose name was Bashar. My friend who I've been interacting with says she is picking up one of her guides whose name is Bashar. Then she just pointed out the website bashar.org and I realized Bashar is a really popular name. It means messenger or you're all the same being in different perspectives or we have three different beings who are all named Bashar.

**Bashar:** I do not have a name since it is only in that sense an indication of what we are doing. But the idea sometimes is that different individuals will gravitate to our basic frequency, our fundamental frequency. They will tap into our collective consciousness stream and they may thus then access different aspects of our reality and may interpret that simply by the term messenger as we have presented it in this way as we utilize it in one of your earth languages.

So it may not necessarily always be personally me, but it is generally speaking possible that it is tapping into our collective stream because you there are similar frequencies, similar vibrations in the people that are gravitating to our consciousness stream and thus they will have a similar interpretation of our energy in and through your brain waves.

Does that make sense?

**Question:** Yes. And she says that hers approaches her on an inner plane. I say that mine comes to me when I'm doing my healing work.

**Bashar:** Yes. And we see our Bashars as being totally different looking. Yes. And each of you will have your own interpretation of the energy, your own presentation of the energy. Even though we are of a species that has in a sense individuality and have our own look as you would say, still our energy is interpreted on many different levels and many different planes because we are now shifting as a civilization from physical to non-physical reality.

Much however of what it is that all of you are experiencing remember is your own higher mind in a sense using our vibration as a mask to give you something familiar to connect to.

Even now you are speaking to your own higher mind allowing us to utilize our vibration as a mask to make it easier for you to communicate with your own higher mind by imagining or pretending that it is in a sense someone else.

Does that make sense?

**Question:** Yes. Does that help you? Yes. And I wanted to know then what's the difference between inner planes and soul groups? And also do extraterrestrials have relationships and do they have physical relationships like we do?

**Bashar:** It depends upon the being and depends upon their state of being and the point at which they are in their evolution. Our civilization in many ways was similar to yours and had relationships in some sense similar to yours although also quite different. But now our relationships are handled in a very different way because we are now no longer as physical as we used to be. So our relationships take place on many different levels and involve many different levels of energy and consciousness in a much more conscious way than they used to.

The idea of soul groups in a sense can be representative of certain interdimensional planes. And so what you may call inner planes can sometimes be synonymous, but it just depends upon the frequency, the vibrational signature that you're dealing with that determines what kind of relationship you have to that concept and how you will interpret it. Because all of those different levels are simply a matter of perspective and frequency and from the position from the perspective of all that is there are no levels at all.

Does that make sense?

**Question:** Yes. So if you wish to work with a particular idea or concept then working with or creating that concept within your own consciousness will automatically create a reflection of that concept in one or more ideas that you experience as dimensional planes or dimensions of experience. But this is simply a reflection.

We have recently discussed the idea that what you might euphemistically call your higher mind is actually a higher mind mirror. And the idea of your physical reality being simply a reflection brings the question to bear. Well, what is it being reflected upon? What is it being reflected back from? The higher mind is actually the mirror that you thus then radiate a certain frequency within your consciousness. Create a certain pattern of energy within your consciousness and the higher mind idea within you reflects that back because of its particular frequency, so that you can create an experience that makes the idea of physical reality seem to be outside of you. But it's only a projection, a reflection coming back from the higher mind mirror. But this is all taking place within your own inner consciousness. And so thus then is any level, any plane of experience taking place within your own consciousness.

It is simply that you're setting up a certain frequency pattern to represent that particular kind of an experience. So in that sense it's all one in the same thing but it will not be experienced as the same thing depending upon what reflection you need to see in order to give yourself permission to become more of yourself in that particular kind of experience or in that particular kind of relationship with yourself and all that is.

Does that make sense in your language?

**Question:** Yes. Does that answer your question?

**Question:** Yes. Thank you. Anything else? No. Thank you.

---

### Question 2: Accessing Akashic Records

**Question:** Shai Bashar. And you good day. How are you? Perfect. And you? I'm very excited to be here. Oh, all right. Could you please help me to access the Akashic records?

**Bashar:** And did we not already talk about this? Yes, we have. Everything is here and now. What makes you think you cannot access what you need?

**Question:** I need some help.

**Bashar:** All right. The easiest way to access any information you require at any given moment is to be yourself as fully as you can be at that moment. Thus then by being yourself as fully as you can be, you will be living in the present as much as you can possibly live. And thus then the easiest way to be yourself as fully as you can be and the easiest way to live in the moment which is where all information lies is by acting to your best ability at every moment on the thing that excites you the most.

Since you are asking for assistance in accessing this information, I will assume that that means you're not necessarily acting on your highest excitement every moment that you would prefer to. So the question we would ask is why not?

**Question:** I am.

**Bashar:** Oh, no you're not. Or you are assuming that by acting on your highest excitement, it won't bring you what you need when you need it. Why do you have that definition of your excitement? That somehow something is missing from what you need to know.

If you understand that excitement is a whole idea, a complete kit, the driving engine and the organizing principle of your physical reality experience, then you will understand that if you are truly acting on your highest excitement and living in the present, then whatever it is you know at any given moment is exactly what you need to know and you don't need to know anything else.

**Question:** So, I shouldn't ask you that then.

**Bashar:** Well, it's not about should. You can and it gives us an opportunity to explain in more clarity this idea of what being in the moment actually does. What we are simply saying to you is that you have all the information you need in any given moment. And the only way that you would have the experience that you don't have the information you need at any given moment to be who it is you are is by having a belief and a definition that you don't have enough information when in fact you always do.

So we are asking you why would you have a definition that says you are missing or lacking information that you believe you need?

**Question:** I don't think I miss anything except for this concern. This is in regards to another person.

**Bashar:** What do you mean it's in regards to another person?

**Question:** This is about my father. The question about my father he has a telepathic communication about 20 years or so.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Question:** I was just curious where did it come from and what beings.

**Bashar:** You are saying where are the communications coming from?

**Question:** Yes. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Again, if someone develops a relationship and a connection and is downloading information and in that information is no indication of exactly where it's coming from, you don't need to know. That's what we're saying. Anything you need to know will be in any communication you receive. And if you don't know it, then you don't need to.

Many times, because of the way that people on your planet are brought up, the way they are taught to think, sometimes knowing the source of some information may actually in a sense get in your way. The idea of receiving information is to apply that information in your physical life and to allow it to have an effect in your life. And sometimes just knowing it and applying it is sufficient. Whereas sitting there and pondering where did this come from, who did it come from may actually prevent you from really applying that information as quickly as you possibly could.

So again, the idea is that information always comes in the way that it needs to. And if it doesn't come with any indication of exactly where it's coming from, then it doesn't need to. And sometimes it does that because it always wants to. Even if it's coming from your guides, even if it's coming from another spirit level, even if it's coming from an extraterrestrial, even if it's coming from source, which of course everything comes from ultimately, but if it comes to you in that way, then what it's telling you is that if you knew more details, if you knew more information, it would probably slow your process down of using the information that is being sent.

You understand?

**Question:** I understand.

**Bashar:** So that's what we mean when we say that the information comes completely and if there is certain information you don't know then at that moment you don't need to and if there is information you absolutely need to know then something in your life either through synchronicity or inspiration or some form or another will give you the information that you actually truly need as long as you understand that that's exactly how it works.

Make sense?

**Question:** Makes sense. Thank you. Does that answer your question sufficiently?

**Question:** It does. And I have a personal request. Yes, I know. Go.

**Question:** If I close my eyes, would you be able to send me your physical image so I can paint your portrait?

**Bashar:** I can tell you right now that we are of average in your terms five foot of your height, whitish gray skin coloration, slightly larger eyes, slightly smaller nose, slightly smaller mouth, smaller ears, slightly larger head than yours, no hair, relatively thin, and the rest is up to my imagination. We will see what you do with that. Okay.

---

### Question 3: Reconnecting with Beings

**Question:** Thank you, Shivai. Hatu hatu. Hatu Basharu, how are you? Perfect. And you? Perfect. I used to be in contact with three other beings when I was younger and I lost, I didn't lose contact, but I forgot how to maintain contact with them. Is there anything you can tell me how to?

**Bashar:** We have already answered this by being in the now. The idea again is that if you simply move forward in your life in a way that represents your ability to take action on whatever is most representative of your passion and whatever it is you are capable of doing with absolutely zero expectation for what the outcome should be, then you will always be led to the perfect place in time and the perfect synchronicities to experience whatever it is you need to experience.

Awesome. You have all made whatever appointments you need to keep in your lives already. You've already made those appointments. The only way you can ever miss any appointment you've ever made is by spending time worrying that you will miss the appointment.

If something changes, just keep moving forward. Just keep acting on your highest joy and whatever other experience needs to happen will happen. And if it doesn't happen, it doesn't need to. Perhaps it needs to happen in a different way now. Perhaps you need to be open to the idea of receiving information and relationship and contact in a different way.

Don't insist that the way that worked before is the way that will work again. Just keep moving forward. Just keep acting on your passion with absolutely no expectation for what the outcome ought to be. And you will be given what you need when you need it. You will not be given it a second before you need it, but you will not be given it a second later than you need it either.

You must understand that this is all about timing, not time.

Just keep moving forward and act to the best of your ability on your highest passion. Taking it as far as you can until you can take it no further. And do this every single moment with every option that comes to you that contains the highest amount of excitement. And act on it with absolutely no expectation of where it will lead. And you will find yourself walking the line and walking the path of absolute bliss and ecstasy.

Does that help you?

**Question:** Yes. I have another question. Yes.

**Question:** I see a lot of UFOs.

**Bashar:** So do I except I know what they are. They are not unidentified to us.

**Question:** Are you able to tell me if they're the same civilization or if they're from different civilization or if it's from Essani or if I have life is in the?

**Bashar:** You have some peripheral connection to our civilization but not directly. Okay. There are a few different civilizations that many of you may see the ships of. They are not necessarily all the same. But one that will always be prominent at this particular point will be the hybrid civilization similar to our own that we have labeled the Yael.

This then you will find is because they are the first species that will have actual open contact with your civilization in time.

**Question:** Awesome. Thank you very much. Bash for sure. Thank you.

---

### Question 4: Physical Landing

**Question:** Today, good day. So I was thinking will in your physical form will you ever go here on Earth and like where?

**Bashar:** Yes someday we will land. Many people have seen our ship physically but have not seen our body physically. This will happen after the initial contact with the other species called the Yael which will most likely happen between 2025 and 2033. Somewhere later in that period or after that period we will be allowed to arrive. It will be our timing in that sense. Okay. Most likely the first place will be the area that my ship is now floating above on your planet, which is the area you call Sedona.

So does that help you?

**Question:** Yeah. All right. Anything else? No. Thank you.

---

### Question 5: DMT and Remembering

**Question:** Greetings, Bashar. And are you good day? So much that you've taught me is about remembering what I already know.

**Bashar:** Yes, of course. That's what this is all about.

**Question:** So, if it's there already, then all we have to do is access it.

**Bashar:** Yes. By being your true natural self.

**Question:** And I was wondering if you could describe how DMT is associated with this remembering who we are.

**Bashar:** NN dimethyltryptamine which is produced by the pineal gland is specifically designed as a molecule that vibrates at the particular resonant frequency to access other dimensions of experience. That's why it's called the third eye.

**Question:** So that would include our higher selves and future selves, past selves.

**Bashar:** Yes. Okay. Wow. It is in that sense a universal gateway. What you access depends upon the frequency perspective you happen to be at when you allow yourself to access that DMT frequency within the pineal gland.

**Question:** Do you have DMT in your civilization as well?

**Bashar:** We do though it operates at a much higher frequency domain. In that sense you could say representationally that we are constantly flooded with it.

**Question:** Wow. Is that really what inspiration is?

**Bashar:** No. Okay. Inspiration in that sense is the communication itself from the higher mind or from higher planes as received by the antenna of the physical brain and as perceived by the receiver of the physical mind. DMT may sometimes help facilitate this in the brain and make your antenna a better receptor and thus then contributes to the experience of inspiration. But the inspiration itself is actually in a sense a resonant frequency communication from one dimensional level to another.

**Question:** So when we're inspired, we're actually accessing our higher self sending back signals like you were sending signals back to the channel.

**Bashar:** Exactly. So you are in communication more directly with the higher mind in a more balanced relationship with the higher mind when you allow yourself to experience inspiration and imagination.

**Question:** So is our solar system, our galaxy, is that being affected by a greater galaxy and a greater galaxy beyond that that's?

**Bashar:** Watch your terminology. Galaxy is a particular collection of stars, right? There are groupings, shall we say, neighborhoods of galaxies that have an impact upon each other in certain ways gravitationally and energetically. Yes.

**Question:** So our higher selves are that further extent out there of?

**Bashar:** No, listen carefully. There are different levels to this. When you create these kinds of levels, you do it in very specific resonant ways. The oversoul can have many different split-off souls that can experience many different incarnations simultaneously. Each incarnation, each incarnational soul will create for that specific incarnation a higher mind and a physical mind. Working in balance, they form a whole person. Part of which is non-physical, part of which is physical. Higher minds are thus specific to each incarnation.

And by having that experience, that physical experience, that experience fires the unfired clay of the soul into the fired ceramic of the spirit that is specific to that personality. Thus then when that personality dies, that's why you still have a specific spirit that is representative of that particular personal life. But that is also part of the soul and part of the oversoul.

And it is the oversoul level that you're talking about and the oversoul of oversouls that you're talking about when you talk about being that far out. The higher mind connects to all these things and allows for transmissions from all these levels, but it in and of itself is specifically designed to work in concert with the physical mind that is representative of the physical personality of a specific incarnation.

Does that make sense?

**Question:** That makes very much sense. Thank you.

**Bashar:** That's why it's so important to work in balance and harmony with the higher mind so that you function as a whole person in your physical experience. Otherwise, without allowing for that balance, the physical mind is functioning as a half wit.

---

### Question 6: The Nature of Time

**Question:** Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. Hello Bashar. How are you? Good day. How is the illusion of time experienced by individuals in your civilization?

**Bashar:** Not much at all. We can slip and slide through the ideas you call space and time. Let me explain what time is. Yes. Time is in a sense a side effect. Here's how it works.

You are familiar with the concept of what you call one of your movies on your planet and you understand that one level of your technology in creating a movie is to place many different frames on a strip of film or tape. You understand? Well, each frame has no movement in it. Yes. The only way you create the illusion of movement is by running those frames past the projector. Yes. Thus then you project onto a screen the idea of all those frames in a certain frequency at a certain succession to create the illusion of movement.

Well, this is exactly what's happening with regard to the idea of parallel realities. Every parallel reality is in and of itself an absolutely immobile frame. This is a parallel reality. This is a parallel reality. This is a parallel reality. This is a parallel reality. This is a parallel reality. But when you shift your consciousness like a projector light through the different parallel reality frames that have no motion in them, you create the illusion of movement by shifting your consciousness through many multiple frames of parallel realities. And you do this billions of times per second.

By shifting your consciousness through those parallel reality frames, you create the side effect you call time and space, the illusion of movement. When no parallel reality in and of itself actually has any time, space movement at all, no experience whatsoever. But by in a sense moving through them with your consciousness, you create that effect of experiencing space, time and change.

Make sense?

**Question:** Yes. So for us, we are moving at a different rate. In a sense, you could say we are skipping over frames. We have learned to skip frames. In a sense, this is what some of you are learning to do now. And why sometimes space and time are becoming a little bit more flexible, a little bit more malleable, where you find yourself experiencing things that no longer fit within the old idea of time frame.

You understand?

**Question:** Yeah. Does that answer your question?

**Question:** It does. I'm going to... This is also why I can actually have this conversation with you in a sense because I know that my life and my so-called past life the channel exist at the same time otherwise this conversation couldn't happen because in a sense linearly speaking I am sending thoughts to my own past self and they're being translated through one of my past selves into your language and I am in a sense the channel's future self. But since past and future are illusions and really don't exist, and since everything exists all at once, then this conversation can occur. That's how slippery we've become.

Does that make sense?

**Question:** It does. I have to listen to this again. Oh, all right. Okay. Thank you. Listen to it again for the very first time. Yes, I will. Thank you.

---

### Question 7: Individual Perspectives and Shared Realities

**Question:** Good day Bashar. Andrew you. Good day. Thank you for sharing with us and you as well. My question is in regards to perspective as you said each individual perspective as aspect of all that is.

**Bashar:** Each individual is a perspective. That's why you are a unique individual because you are a unique perspective.

**Question:** Now with two individuals or aspects interacting. Yes, they can each create their own perspective, their own reality. They do create their own perspective, but they can also create an agreement to share some aspects of their perspectives. In a sense, each of them can thus then create something similar in their own reality, similar enough to the other individual's reality that they seem to have a commonly shared reality even though they are unto themselves completely and utterly unique.

**Question:** And could they interact and share a reality, but both have completely different perspectives or completely different interpretations of the event?

**Bashar:** Well, yes, there can be interactions that allow for the idea of relatively different perspectives. But if they really were absolutely completely different in the way that you usually mean that, then you probably wouldn't experience having an interaction with them.

**Question:** And would that be because of like attracting like?

**Bashar:** Yes. Or like attracting what it needs to see as a reflection even though it may be unlike. Remember that opposites are alike because they are opposites. Yes. Yes. And in that way they're alike. And so opposites can also attract. Understood. For a variety of purposes and reflections and reasons. Very good. Does that make sense?

**Question:** Yes, it does. Does it answer your question?

**Question:** Yes, it does. Thank you. Yes.

---

### Question 8: Childhood Experience and Dreams

**Question:** Good day, Bashar. I knew you. Good day. I have a question about an experience I had as a child. Two or three years old and I have a memory of being in my crib and hearing what to me sounded like an alligator. All right. And it scared me and I flew into my mother's room.

**Bashar:** You mean literally flew or ran?

**Question:** That's what it... Well, flew. Like, all right. Flew.

**Bashar:** Yes. Remember that children at that age in particular are much, much more connected to other planes, other dimensions of reality, and are very prone to experiencing other kinds of expressions of consciousness in a variety of ways. They will also pick up telepathically on what's going on with the rest of the family. In particular, they may pick up also the idea of interpretations, fears, negative ideas, beliefs, and definitions.

So in that sense, you may simply have keyed into, tapped into certain things that are archetypally representative of danger in that sense or attack in that sense. You may have connected for the first time into the so-called primal experience of humanity. You understand?

**Question:** Yes. And thus then by connecting into that, flying into your mother's arms going, "Is that really what Earth is like? Where have I chosen to come?" But getting the reassurance then that this is all par for the course, all part of normalizing yourself into the Earth experience. Does that make sense?

**Question:** Yes. There in that sense was really nothing to fear except that you gave yourself an experience of fear so as to learn to acclimate to what many people on your planet find normal. But now it's all about allowing yourself to learn what is actually natural. Does that make sense?

**Question:** Yes. Thank you. Does this address the situation sufficiently for you?

**Question:** It does. Was there some other idea you wish to explore?

**Question:** Well, continuing with that, I've had some many dreams since then which often include being chased or being shot at or something. And I always like second nature. I just start flying and I fly away and I get away and it's like a recurring theme.

**Bashar:** Yes. So this is your way of understanding that no matter how dark and dire things may seem, you always have a doorway to a higher level. Yes. Yes. Yin-Yang. Yes. Yes. For even within the black and white are doorways to the opposite. Yes. Yes. Does that help you?

**Question:** It does. I have another question also. Yes. Or a couple.

**Question:** So I've had this pain in my ankle recently and I haven't really discovered a reason except for maybe to inspire this question.

**Bashar:** No. Right.

**Question:** If I choose to shift to a reality where I am physically healthy and don't have physical pain. Yes. Is it the same as like shifting a belief like, okay, now I'm shifting to reality where I don't feel any pain in my ankle and even though I feel it still physically, it's just that echo that you talk about.

**Bashar:** All right, this will require a little bit of in-depth exploration. First of all, listen to your phrasing. "If I shift into another reality, will I still feel the pain?" If you actually truly understand that every time you shift into another reality, you're not the same person literally, then what you actually become is a person not only who doesn't have the pain, you become a person who doesn't have the pain because they never had the pain. You understand the difference?

**Question:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Big difference. You are already always shifting right now. You're shifting as we said billions of times per second. You are becoming literally billions of different people per second. The question is why are you creating each of those new people to have a similar experience? What definition are you creating over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again so that each of those people are defining themselves in a similar fashion in order to have a similar experience?

What is your greatest fear?

**Question:** My greatest fear?

**Bashar:** Yes. No namby-pamby stuff. Your greatest one.

**Question:** To discover that my belief that I can shift is not actually true.

**Bashar:** All right, but I've already told you that you're shifting all the time. You see, again, this is where definition really comes in handy. Because if you truly understand the nature of the structure of existence, you will know that you are shifting all the time, that you can't help but shift all the time, that it's your nature to shift all the time. And so you won't have to spend your focus wondering how to shift or if you can shift.

This is similar to the ideas we have discussed like trust and doubt. Many people on your planet say, "Oh well, I have doubt. It's very, very hard to trust in something I prefer all the time." No, it's not. This is only seemingly difficult because of your definition of doubt. Your definition of doubt on your planet typically is that it is a lack of trust. And this is absolutely false.

Doubt is not a lack of trust. It is a 100% trust in something you don't prefer. You see the difference?

What that means is when you realize you're always trusting something to be true, if you were not always trusting in something to be true, you would have no experience at all. But the idea is that when you understand that there really is no such thing as doubt, or at least doubt is not a lack of trust, then you can understand that it isn't about learning to trust. Trust comes automatically. It's about allowing yourself to choose what you prefer to trust in. And that's very different than the whole idea of, "Oh my goodness, now I have to learn to trust." No, you don't. Trust is automatic. Shifting is automatic. It's what you do.

So now it's about getting a handle, getting a hold of, becoming more aware of the fact that you're choosing to shift in the way that you are shifting. And it's about learning what it is you prefer to shift to instead of assuming that you have to learn to shift or assuming that you don't. If you didn't shift, you would have no experience whatsoever. Remember what we described time as? Time is the side effect of shifting. So the fact that you are actually having a space-time experience means you're shifting right now.

You've shifted billions and billions and billions and billions and billions and billions of times in the course of this conversation which has been recreated in every single shift in order for you to have this experience you call continuity. It's an illusion. You're creating the continuity. You don't have to create as much continuity. If you understand that you wish to define the next shift in a particular way that does not in any way, shape or form include any of the definitions that were contained in the person that is in that other reality that you were pretending to be a moment ago, then the person you are now will have absolutely no experiences that are common with that person, which is not you. It may be you as an oversoul but it's not you as a person. Person is an artificial construct. Person is a temporary mask. You are bigger than that.

Make sense?

**Question:** Yes. So when the idea of the bigger you shifts its focus through the eyes of a different personality version of you, it is literally a different person. And whatever you choose to believe the definition of that person is is what that person experiences him or herself to be. But you have to know that that's what's happening. So that when you understand how the mechanism works, you will then define it clearly and experience it clearly from the clear definition instead of the muddled definitions that you're throwing at yourself that then perpetuate the experiences you don't prefer because you don't have a clear definition of the mechanism that's happening. Make sense?

**Question:** Yes. So I choose to become this new person.

**Bashar:** No, no, no. Not choose to become, choose to be. When you say become you will always be becoming. When you choose to be that person then you will have the experience that person has. Make sense.

**Question:** Yes. Thank you for the clarity. You are welcome. One other question. Yes. So I have been following my passion very fervently and it's been leading me to greater and greater experiences of ecstasy and it's been really incredible, really amazing, it has been quite credible actually very credible. And so my question is you've spoken before about verbal channeling and how asking viewers or other people questions and having that pulls information through you. Having other people ask questions through you. Yes. Pulls the information through you. Grounds it like a circuit pulls it through you and grounds it in the question.

So my question is then I'm a musician and I feel like then you are a channel. Yes. And when the songs come through, it feels like it's coming through with a lot more there's messages for me, but also there's messages for other people. I was wondering if you could describe a little bit more the process of that with other forms of channeling such as songwriting.

**Bashar:** It's all the same idea. So if rather than asking a question or having someone ask me a question verbally in the way you are, you are still in a sense having someone ask a question euphemistically speaking because you know that if you have something to give there is someone in the world that wants to receive it. So if you are writing a song, it's because that is who you are. And as you write the song because that's who you are, you simply know that if that's the song you're inspired to write, then there is someone in the world who must exist who needs to hear that song and that becomes the questioner. And they will find that song. Even if you never meet them, you just know the questioner is there. Because there is no such thing as a one-sided coin. And if you have the head, you have the tail. So if you have something to give, then that means someone in the world must need to receive that or you wouldn't be excited about giving that thing because there are no one-sided coins.

**Question:** Yes. And that's what it has felt like. And sometimes I just need to hear it spoken to.

**Bashar:** Then by all means speak it to yourself as often as you would like. Thank you. Thank you.

---

## Break Before Afternoon Session

So it looks like that is all the questions we have time for before lunch. All right, then by all means enjoy your refreshment break. We will thus then resume this transmission after your recording to allow and afford for more interactive dialogue. Enjoy.

---

## Afternoon Session: Continuation of Bashar 2.0

All right. And we will thus then continue this transmission of the upgrade 2.0 class where you are now in what might be something closer to your junior year in your new academy of understanding. As you begin to explore more clearly, more deeply, more observationally the idea of one.

The unifying theory of metaphysics that everything is one, everything is here, everything is now. All is vibrational resonance of the same thing. Different perspectives being created by that vibrational resonance pattern within the one like ripples, like waves intersecting, interacting, canceling, reinforcing valleys and crests.

Allowing yourself now more opportunity to go through the list of definitions that have defined your life, have defined who you are and the situations you find yourself in that you have created and attracted to yourself. And we remind you to take this opportunity and take any opportunity to see these things more from an observational point of view, to hold them up to this framework, this understanding, this structure, and allow yourself the opportunity and the time and the space, so to speak, to impart new meaning, new definitions in whatever way fits this structure. And to let go, to let go, to let go of those portions of the definitions that are folkloric, outdated, outmoded, and simply do not fit and do not belong in your new upgraded 2.0 understanding and perspective of this unifying theory, of this unifying framework.

Use it as the sharpest tool and you will find that you will be able to move through very quickly, very rapidly any former red tape, any former confusion, any former doubt, any former hesitation.

And you can begin to truly see the path that you are clearly lit because you will see your relationship to this structure of existence. You will see where you fit and where everything fits. You will see the patterns as they intersect, as they interact, as they mesh in a dance, in an orchestration that is flawless, beautiful, perfect, balanced.

And you will innately find your passion, your love, your excitement, your joy, your creativity, your inspiration, your imagination. All blossoming from this central understanding of everything being one and everything being here and everything being now. Now, now, now, now. For there is only now. It is never then. It is only now.

Continue to bring up within yourself in all of your questions. Look at all of your assumptions. Look at all of your definitions of every not only metaphysical concept, but even what you would consider to be the normal concepts of your life, the normal ideas of your relationship. For they do not always necessarily serve you by remaining normal. It is very important to allow them to become more natural to be expressed in a more natural way and to know as we have said that there is really nothing supernatural. It is just that the spectrum of nature is bigger than you heretofore assumed and that you are now capable of perceiving more of it. But that doesn't mean that you're going beyond your natural senses to do so. There may be aspects of your senses that are relevant to physical reality and you may need to expand beyond that spectrum in a sense or that portion of the spectrum but that doesn't mean that you must label these other expanded portions of your senses as something beyond you, as something supernatural, for that only places the expectation and assumption within you that these things are unnatural because that is usually the way your society has labeled these things.

What is supernatural is unnatural and thus it makes you hesitate to expand in those directions and it causes individuals to think that you are abnormal, to be paranormal.

So the idea is to drop all of these labels so that you will not succumb to the negative side as well because they are automatically connected to some of these definitions and some of these labels that you have created. So if you simply drop them all and if you drop the idea that to be paranormal is to be abnormal and that to be supernatural is to be unnatural, then you will simply not be faced with those conundrums, with those conflicts. It will all be natural. It will all be normal. It will all in a sense be its own kind of physical experience because even if you are non-physical you're still going to create your experience. It's still going to appear to be happening for you and thus it's still going to be your unique experience. So let that be your new physicality and let your senses be what they are.

They are not extra and thus then they are not lacking because you don't have to do anything more but be yourself in order to experience the full spectrum of everything that actually already exists within you. Why? Because everything is here and now. Because there is no other time and space. Not really, except the experience of other times and spaces. But all of those experiences of other times and spaces. And there's another label: other. All of those other experiences are simply different perspectives of this experience of here, of now, of the one. That's what other is. Here's another definition. Another definition.

You see how your language can create these things to seem segregated and separated. There really is no otherness except in the idea that you create it to seem that way in order to have a unique perspective of the one thing. But there is no other. There is no outside to creation. There is no other but the one. So anything you experience, no matter how other it may seem, can only be a different face, a different perspective, a different expression, a different presentation of the one thing.

And thus you can see how that supports your unique expression and presentation of the one because again it forms a background. It forms a reference point. It forms context for you as you form context for it and for us and all other beings in creation, all other expressions of the one. So it is really all about context. It is simply about perspective. It is simply about relationship. And that's all about resonance. Relationship, context, perspective is just resonance. It's just frequency within the one. That's all it is. Creating ripples and waves, eddies and currents that allow you to express and experience freely all the different ways that all that is has of experiencing itself within its oneness, within its hereness, within its nowness.

Fascinating really that this can be experienced this way, that you can even have an experience called space and time, distance, past, present, future. Fascinating that the one can express itself and experience itself that way. And this shows you the richness, the rich complexity, the beauty of all that is, the creativity, the artistry, the magnificence of all that is, the incomprehensibility of all that is, the magnitude of all that is, and the oneness that it expresses in diversity, in all that it is.

---

## Expanding on Redefinitions

Let's find some more definitions, class. Allow yourself to explore. Now, definitions you've used. Bring them up. The ones that perhaps have been those things that have allowed you to think in a sense that you may be expressing spirituality, metaphysical thought, but now you might be able to see more clearly might have been using outmoded, outdated, obsolete labels and concepts and begin to examine and explore against this framework of oneness and clarity and simplicity and nowness and hereness. How you might in your imagination change this definition, create a definition more in keeping with this simplicity, this transparency, how it might serve you in a more positive, constructive, simpler way, more clarifying way, more transparent way.

Let yourself explore all these ideas. As we have already said, past lives are not really past, future lives are not really future. As we have said, telepathy is really not telepathy. As we have said, Akashic records are not really records. It is simply that everything exists here and now and therefore is always accessible. As we have said, reincarnation is not really reincarnation. And even though you can experience the idea of incarnation, even incarnation is not really incarnation.

You don't actually inhabit your body. In a sense, your body is within your consciousness. It is an aspect. It is a presentation. It is an idea. And when you have such ideas as has been expressed in metaphysical lore as out-of-body experiences, astral travel. Again, these definitions are a little bit off the mark, a little bit outdated.

Again, please understand, we do not mean to say that you cannot have what appears to be that experience. We're not telling you that you have to lose that sensation, that you have to lose or give up the experience that your spirit is leaving your body. But it's just a euphemism.

All that's happening is that you're allowing yourself, you're allowing your consciousness to experience yourself from a broader point of view. In a sense, it's just like you're expanding beyond the confines, beyond the focus of the idea of physical reality. And thus, it seems as if from a linear perspective that your spirit is leaving your body when in fact it's just that your consciousness is expanding beyond the parameters of physical reality. That's all that's happening mechanically speaking because again everything is really here and now. So it's not like your body is here and your spirit is there. Your body, your spirit, your soul, your oversoul, everything exists here and now.

A closer approximation in a sense could be said that they are sort of nested within one another. If you wish to look at it that way, that's all right too. But again, that's still a symbol. It is just you expressing yourself in all the ways you can. So in a sense your body is you, is your spirit, is your soul, is your oversoul, is all that is in one version in one context and your spirit is your body and your soul and your oversoul and all that is and it is you in another context.

All these expressions are really just you all happening at the same time in different context from different perspectives and seemingly interconnected, interengaged, interrelated, but they're not really separate. They're not really different things. Even though they may be experienced as different experiences, but they're not really different things because there is only what? One thing.

So your body, your spirit, your soul, your oversoul and all that is and anything in between is still the same one thing. And so it can't really separate from itself. It can't really inhabit itself. There's nowhere to inhabit. There's nowhere else to go to. There is only here and now. You see? Are you starting to get the picture? There is only here and now. So what you call a body, what you call a spirit, what you call a soul are different expressions of the same thing. And they all exist here and now because they're all the same one thing from a different point of view.

Unify, unify, unify, simplify, simplify, simplify. Then you will understand, then you will have clarity. Then you will see the structure like an X-ray. You will observe just as you observe the redness of the rose and go, "Red rose." Not an opinion, an observation. Clear, obvious to anyone. Look at the structure of existence this way. Clear, obvious to anyone. You will see how to redefine things in the upgraded terminology and it will serve you in a more transparent, more accelerated way.

You will be upgrading your energy then and you will be 2.0 you. 2.0. You the junior class no longer, no longer in that sense in the younger schools. You now coming in. You now graduating. You now taking higher courses. You now in a different class on a different level at a different frequency. You now expressing yourself in a new way that has always existed and always will. But you now awakening as that you, being that you, knowing that all the other versions of you are still here, still now, haven't gone away. You can rely on them. You can use them as stepping stones. You can give them in the sense some perspective that they can give you perspective. You can use them as context, as background for who you are now.

Don't invalidate them. Don't find yourself lacking by comparison to what you may become. That's not how to use the background in a positive way. You are who you are right now. And it's exactly perfectly who you need to be right here, right now, exactly who you perfectly need to be. For if you are not this you as fully as you can be, you cannot truly be any other version of you. You cannot express or experience any other version of you until you actually fully use the version that's here right now being expressed in this now. And so you can thus then express this version now and this version now and this version now. Only by validating this version now will you experience any other version of this you now. Because it's all here and now and there's nowhere else to go and nowhere else to come from and nowhere else to be. It's all here. It's all now. It's all one.

You are all one. Every friend, every family member, every stranger, different perspectives of you, different perspectives of the one that you are. And so are they. And so are you to them. All one, all here, all now.

Allow yourself to breathe this in. Take a deep breath and make this truth your own. Make all truths true within you. Allow them to be true for they are all true. For there can be nothing outside. There can really be no other except as an experience but not as an actual existence. Not as an actual mechanical reality, not as an actual mechanical physical truth. It's only an experience. Otherness, difference is only an experience. A valid experience. A beautiful experience. A creative experience to be sure. But it is not the framework. It is only an experience on the framework because the framework never changes.

The framework in that sense is existence itself. Any person, any perspective, any experience is just a different perspective, a different experience on that framework. And the framework is the same for all because the all are the one and the one is the all and that is you and that is us and we are reflecting this to you and you are reflecting this to us and together we amplify each other and upgrade each other and vibrate and bounce off each other and lift and lift and lift and lift. If that is the experience you prefer.

For there are also of course always aspects where you can downgrade yourself if you wish and diminish and diminish and diminish and diminish your experience of yourself. Not that you can ever actually be diminished because there is only one. It is all here. It is all now. But you can have the experience of diminishment. You can have the experience of disconnection. You can have the experience of exclusion. You can have the negative spiraling downward experience if you so desire. And you can also have the upward spiral of integration, connection, love, passion, joy, excitement, creativity. It's up to you. It's up to you. So, or it's down to you. Notice the paradox of how both phrases exist in your language. Oh, this comes down to you. Oh, it's up to you. Choose. Choose. Choose. Choose. Choose the experience of the now you wish to be. Choose the experience of the here. You know you are. Choose the experience of the one that you are and everything is.

We are one. We are all. We are one. We are all. We are here. We are now. There is no other time. There is no other place. There is nothing else except as an experience. And that's all. It is an experience that you have chosen. Choose what you prefer. Choose. Choose. Choose. Choose.

2... class 2.0.

And so these classes shall continue in a variety of ways, in a variety of contexts, always exploring what may no longer serve you, what is outmoded, what is obsolete, and allowing your imagination and your inspiration and your creativity. Freedom. Freedom. Freedom to be truly harmonized with your higher frequency, your higher being, forming a relationship of harmony and balance between physical and higher mind. Again, euphemisms. It's all one. Your higher mind is you. Your physical mind is you. Just different expressions.

And you can allow them to appear to work in concert or you can allow them to work in discord. Whatever you prefer is yours for you are now class 2.0. You have clearer sight than you did before. You have less resistance than you did before. You are not the same you that was here in this here. You are now new you in this here and now. Even though the old you still exist in their own here and now because it is all here and now. All simultaneous and all concurrent.

Choose which expression and which perspective you prefer in this now and this now and this now and this and this and this and this and this. You're shifting all the time. Shifting, shifting, shifting all the time. And were it not for the fact that you created the different perspectives and were it not for the fact that those different perspectives are all valid, you would not be capable of shifting. Nor would you be capable of having this experience of the exploration of process and creation. It is wondrous. It is magical. Use it that way and you will have a lot of fun in this class.

For this curriculum shall continue in a variety of ways of exploration and give you more opportunities to let go of what no longer belongs in this now. What is no longer relevant in this now? Your now. Your new now. Here as one with us.

We will thus allow this information to sink within the you you choose to be at this timing. And we will allow for a little bit longer exploration of questions and answers to examine these old ideas and give you more practice in letting them fall away. So this will be your recorded section which exists in the now in its own way and we will resume this transmission as you say with the interactions to examine and explore your questions and statements and definitions. Until such time as we will now allow for a short break to resume the transmission in that way. Our unconditional love to the you you choose to be in this moment with us.

---

## Second Interactive Q&A Segment

Okay, so we're ready for the next exciting installment of this class and I'm sure that by the end of the day we'll be handing out caps and gowns. So, all right. So, I'm going to go ahead and turn it over to Daryl. Thank you all so much for being here and do your magic because you are spectacular. Oh, thank you. All right. Thank you.

Before we get back into it, I was asked by a few people just to give a very brief understanding or description of my other parallel life, which is as a filmmaker. I've been in the film business for 30 years, but most recently as a writer, director, producer, and I'm thrilled to announce that my production company has just finished its first movie.

The movie is a fictional documentary called Dearly Departed and it is shot as if we took a camera into the spirit world and interviewed dead people to get their take on life after death. So it has now been entered into four film festivals. We'll see if we get selected. And we have other connections helping us to make connections to distributors to get it out into a theater near you hopefully sometime in the near future. So that's what's happening with that film. I am very pleased to say because if I didn't follow my excitement I know I'd be in big trouble with someone.



### Question 9: Energy from Bioluminescence

**Question:** Is it possible to capture and possibly also store energy from bioluminescent sources.

**Bashar:** Yes, of course it is.

**Question:** Okay. Is there also energy that we're not currently utilizing from photosynthesis that might be utilized for other means?

**Bashar:** Absolutely. There are many natural technologies that you are able to utilize if you would take a slightly different approach in your technology.

**Question:** Is there any relationship that might be with other living beings, is there some relationship that we might be able to glean or gain energy and also make that some sort of symbiotic relationship where that other being would benefit from that transfer of energy?

**Bashar:** Yes, of course. One of the things that many of you have not yet realized is that trees and especially the tallest ones are antennae. They in that sense rise up from the earth, extend themselves out as feelers and pick up on many different kinds of subtle energies, higher frequency energies and then they in a sense act as step down transformers to take that energy into the earth to feed the earth in that way to create cycles of energy coursing through the earth in that way along conduits, along pathways, along circuits if you wish to call them.

There are ways thus then to create without in any way, shape or form harming the trees and in fact in many ways benefiting them as well. Ways to connect them, ways to link them, ways to utilize this energy for your own purposes. But you have not yet realized that you have this network of antennae spread out over the entire planet that you could utilize to step down and transform higher frequency subtle energies into something that you can use with your own technology. That's one way you could utilize nature that you are not utilizing.

**Question:** Is there a way through aqueous solution to harness any energy from oceanic life?

**Bashar:** The ocean itself, the water itself can transmit current, can transmit many different forms of energy.

By having certain technologies that you can place within the ocean, whatever way in which the indigenous life in the ocean is utilizing this electricity can be used by you as well in a variety of ways. But you have to start thinking in a different way. 

You have to start looking at whole systems instead of components. You need to start understanding everything as one whole system so that you can see the balances, the currents, the flows that exist, the exchanges that exist on the various levels in nature so that you can take advantage of those different levels of exchange and convert those different levels and transfer of energy from one level to another into energy that you can use.

There are a variety of ways to do this. One of the ways would be to allow yourself to create what we might by using your language refer to as a series of nested capacitors. By creating certain capacitors of certain volume and certain proportion in what you would call mathematically fractal ratios and nesting these capacitors within one another and then immersing those capacitors within certain mediums. You would find that each capacitor on a different scale would pick up certain frequencies within that medium and then release that energy in a certain way going through the different nested capacitors to transform it in ways that are usable for you. That is one approach you can take.

We're not allowed to help you all too much with this because it's up to your own process and your own imagination to figure out the details. But we can give you hints. We can point in directions. We are allowed to do that.

**Question:** Is the energy storable?

**Bashar:** Of course it is.

**Question:** How can we upgrade to more contemporary definitions and still glean all the wisdom from traditional understandings and teachings?

**Bashar:** You can understand that everything is relevant in its own context. And if you can allow yourself to have a modern interpretation of something and yet at the same time allow, validate, value those perspectives that have brought you to where you are, then you will be using the stepping stones that got you here appropriately. Make sense?

The idea is to simply not let the old traditions hold you back because you allow yourself to think that that's the only definition you can have. But you can glean value from them in the fact that they have brought you to where you are, brought you to the state of realization you are now in and can be instrumental in propelling you forward.

**Question:** So overall balance would basically allow you to...

**Bashar:** Yes. Because you will remain grounded, but at the same time you will also be in a sense forward thinking and with less drag. With no drag at all. With no drag as long as there is no resistance to your natural self. The path of least resistance is being your true self.

The idea is that many people on your planet struggle to be something they're not and they suffer for it. Thus then allowing yourself to truly be who you actually are is what would allow you to flow freely without resistance, without pain, without suffering, without strife. Make sense?

**Question:** Yes. For your own current and your own flow must come first because anything that exists in your technology is only going to be a reflection of changes you've already made in your consciousness. It can't happen the other way around.

**Question:** I heard an article on NPR on the radio that there was an article about people who polyglots, people who learn a lot of languages. Yes. And there was some line of thought that learning multiple languages and thinking in multiple languages was somehow negative in human development.

**Bashar:** Why? Are you paying attention? Yes. Are you sure? Yes. All tools, all techniques, all rituals, all concepts, all symbols, all ideas are permission slips. You give yourself permission to be more of yourself by using whatever technique or tool you believe is relevant for your current system of beliefs that will allow you to let go enough to give yourself permission to be more of yourself in whatever way that seems relevant to you at the moment. Maybe tomorrow you will change your mind, but if it works for you now, use it. If it doesn't work, don't. It's that simple.

So anytime anyone proposes this will do this, this will do that, this will work, this won't, that's all relative. If it works for you, then that's where your belief system is. Then that's what's relevant as a permission slip for you. When you change, it may no longer be relevant. But if it works for you now, use it until it doesn't work. Then use something that does and just keep doing that. 

**Question:** We talked about looking at all people's experiences as a different lens to see our own experience or our own existence.

**Bashar:** Yes, you can do that.

**Question:** Well, let me back up then. The appreciating other people's perspectives as a necessary part of our understanding of the whole. Yes. Because all relationships are for the purpose of everyone in the relationship reflecting to the other what they need to know to become more of themselves whether the people know it intentionally or consciously or not. So you can use it that way for yourself regardless of what anyone else's perspective or intention is in the relationship or the reflection.

And it doesn't mean that just because you see a certain trait in someone that it's necessarily something that you have to work on identically. You may simply be allowing them to see something in you that they need. The idea is that the degree to which a reflection means something to you can vary. You have to be the determining factor as to what's relevant for you in your interactions and reflections with others.

**Question:** So in an effort to be most understanding and compassionate of others' perspectives and especially when we meet or see situations of other people's experiences and actions that are just so far from what I could potentially relate to, potentially Charles Manson etc. Other than pointing out the extreme nature of human experience, what other lessons might?

**Bashar:** Well, you can understand even though you may prefer the idea of a positive energy, you can still observe the idea that many people may be choosing negativity but that's only because those are the tools they've been given. So the idea is to be compassionate enough to give them an opportunity to see in you and share with them other options that will allow them to discover more of who they truly are. At the same time, it's important to be unconditionally compassionate and loving enough to allow them to choose what it is that they believe is possible for them.

Now, it doesn't mean that you need to condone those kinds of negative actions. Everyone in that sense is responsible to themselves to be who they truly are. But guiding them, giving them examples, being a living example for them of other options, other ways they can find self-empowerment is what you can do to help.

But the idea is that people usually only act in negative ways because they simply don't know any other way to express the idea of connection that they desperately wish to create. The idea simply is they've only been taught the negative tools. They've only been taught that they lack power. And they think once they believe they lack power, they think the only way to achieve power is to dominate and control the outside environment because they believe that they are separate from it and must in some way blend with it. But they don't know how to. They don't understand they are already blended with it. They don't understand that everything already is one. And so they strive and stretch to do things that would make them in their mind think that they would be more powerful but which are only expressions of their belief in their disempowerment.

Showing them, demonstrating to them, teaching them, sharing with them that they are truly already totally empowered beings would allow them to relax the need to express themselves in those negative contexts. 



### Question 10: Hybrid Children and Genetic Experimentation

**Question:** Hi Bashar. And are you good day? Thank you so much for being so much fun and for being in my life.

**Bashar:** We thank all of you for being so much fun. It's because of all of you that our planet doesn't need movies or television. Well, we cannot imagine a more exciting and enjoyable story than your process and our interaction with you in it.

**Question:** I'll take that as a compliment. I'm sure we all will and you're a lot more fun than television. Thank you too for the cetacean transformation workshop for your contribution to that.

**Bashar:** It is our pleasure to allow you to begin contact with the alien species on your own world to give you practice for contacting others.

**Question:** Yes, I've been involved in sort of metaphysical spiritual endeavors for many many years. But the last couple of years my excitement led me very strongly to you. To and to increasing awarenesses about what we're all about and other I was kind of caught up in my own process until fairly recently and I didn't have so much curiosity about off-planet but now it's been tremendous, I mean I've just been devouring all kinds of material but I've become aware well I'm pretty sure I was involved in the genetic experiments with the zeta reticuli the hybridization agenda.

**Bashar:** Yes. Yes.

**Question:** I feel like I must have contributed genetic material. Yes. To that. And perhaps been involved in the nurturing as well. I'm not certain.

**Bashar:** All right. And so what will you do with this understanding?

**Question:** Exactly. It feels expansive just to know about it. But I wondered if there might be more significance that you could.

**Bashar:** I can continue following my excitement. Of course. Can you? Yes, I will. All right. I am. Remember that part and parcel, the idea of some of those experiences is for the purpose of allowing you to expand in the way that you need to to become and to be who it is you prefer to be. And in being who you prefer to be, you will fulfill your agreements with all the other ones as well. Does that make sense to you without being too on the nose?

**Question:** It does. It does. All right. And what else about this would you like to explore in more detail?

**Question:** I don't have to explore anything about that specifically at the moment. All right. It would be interesting. I I

**Bashar:** Yes, the sound pretty wonderful.

**Question:** Thank you. I wondered if I have any connection there that I might tap into.

**Bashar:** You do feel and you can. All right.

**Question:** A lifetime or a...

**Bashar:** Yes. More than one. All right. And I could just hold that intention.

**Bashar:** If you wish or you could use your imagination to come up with whatever methodology works best for you since your imagination is key to your particular signature vibration. All right. We have, if you remember or if you know, also given many of you our well phone number, an image of a black equilateral triangle pointing upward against a black background, separated from the black background by a deep blue light radiating out from the edges of the triangle from behind the triangle. That in a sense is the symbolic and pictorial representation of our signature frequency. So by focusing on that to some degree you can tap into our collective consensus. And again whatever way your imagination desires to alter that or add to it or change it is completely up to you because believe it or not you know what you're doing.

All right. Does that help you?

**Question:** It does very much. I mean it's I will also add this pleasant dreams. Yeah, I know. So much of my other experiences are in my dreams. I think I'm aware.

**Bashar:** So again, the bottom line as you say on your planet is it is representative of a state of being. What will you do with that state of being? How will you act from that state of being? That's the whole issue. Remember, it's not the circumstances that matter. It's the state of being that matters. So being the state of being that to you represents that vibrational state of your true natural self. Then acting from that state of being is going to allow you to attract to you and attract yourself to all the circumstances, situations that will be synchronistically representative of the next opportunities you need to consider, you need to act on, that are containing the highest amount of passion and excitement. Whatever they may be, whether they seem connected or not, it's the excitement that tells you they are, not the surface appearance.

And thus then the question is, what will you do in that energy state? How will you behave? What will you allow yourself to know is true for you? Not believe, know is true for you. Because knowing and action are synonymous.

---

### The Object Lesson

**Bashar:** Do you have a small object? Coin, pen, pencil, anything.

**Question:** No, but I bet someone will hand me one. Thank you. Yes.

**Bashar:** Has it been synchronistically supplied? Yes. Yes, it has. All right. Place the object on the floor. Have you done so? Yes. Pick it up. Have you done so? Yes. Did you stop and think about it? Did you say, "I believe I can pick it up. I think I can pick it up. I'm not sure." No. You just picked it up. Because you knew you could. That's right.

Knowing and action are synonymous. Very good illustration. You understand? Yes. There is almost no separational experience between them. What you know is what you do. Yeah. So if something is not being exhibited in your behavior, in your actions, you don't really know it.

**Question:** I don't know it or I'm not allowing myself to know it. What's the difference?

**Bashar:** That you know. Does that help you?

**Question:** It does. And a couple of more questions. That was a question. Oh, well that's a third one.

**Question:** I've also become most of the most of my other stellar experiences have felt really light and serious and then here Lemuria and I haven't felt that I played a negative role of any sort in Atlantis, but I've recently become aware of some Orion experience that's not so light.

**Bashar:** How exciting. Oh, yes. What to do with that? Now, now, now. Oh, now, now, now. Balance it. Now, in other words, remember what have we been talking about? What is this transmission about? Creating definitions that work for you.

So, when you look at the idea of having experienced or experiencing on some level simultaneously what you call great darkness, great negativity, let's see, let's use the imagination. Let's use the inspiration. How can I define my relationship to this idea in a way that serves me in a positive context? Oh, I don't know. Let's see. Ah, there's always that wonderful rubber band analogy. Oh, yes. You know that one? I do.

Like a rubber band. The farther back you pull it, when you finally let it go, that much faster, that much farther will it fly. The darker you've experienced the darkness, when you finally let go, that much farther and faster will you fly into the light. Yes, that's how to look at the idea of that experience of negativity in a positive way.

Remember, even even even the faintest light shines brightly only because it's surrounded by darkness. You understand? I do. So, the darkness supports the light and vice versa. You must have both in order to understand balance and in order to be able to actually choose what you prefer.

When everything is allowed to be a valid choice and equal, then you can choose what you prefer even while you recognize what you don't prefer. But you're not invalidating what you don't prefer. Invalidating what you don't prefer is a negative act which adds to the negative energy and tips the scale in the negative direction. Validating what you prefer allows everything to remain in balance. Validate the positive, validate the negative, and then you get to choose. Make sense?

**Question:** That feels good. So, one last thing, and I'm liable to be asking for it with this one, but my identity is very much this being here, and I would like to support the new visitation. I don't remember the exact name, but you talked about it in LA that you have recommended or suggested that we send out. Yes. And apparently it will be on the website soon and we'll be able to do that and sign the petition.

**Bashar:** It's not signing a petition. Well, it is simply taking the UFO witness declaration and spreading it around. That's right. And I would like to participate in that, but I do have some anxiety about what?

**Question:** About rejection.

**Bashar:** Rejection. And I know that it's important. May I ask you a question? Yes. Did you feel that coming into this interaction? No. Why not? Aren't there going to be people on the street who are going to point at you and laugh? I don't know. And I'm not concerned about that.

**Question:** What are you concerned about? My family. Your family. My friends who...

**Bashar:** Because extraterrest... I think are you saying you're taking a leap? Yes, I have been. I've had my own personal leap. If it is in your estimation too big of a leap, don't take it. Oh no, it's not. Please don't say that. Well, it's a choice, isn't it? It's so important to me to follow my excitement. Are you sure? Positive. Then why are you feeling anxiety? Why are you choosing to interpret this in a manner that allows you to experience your own energy through the filter of a negative belief and turn into anxiety? If you're excited, then you're filtering your energy through positive beliefs. If you're anxious, you're filtering the same energy through negative beliefs. If this is exciting to you, why are you choosing to hold on to beliefs that don't serve you, that you bought into from someone else?

When you are growing up on your planet, many times, yes, you will pick up beliefs from your family, your friends, your society. But once you reach a point where you realize that those beliefs have nothing to do with who you prefer to be, why would you hold on to them? You know what they call people who hold on to things that don't belong to them? Yes. Belief thieves. Why are you stealing other people's beliefs that don't belong to you? Give them back and create your own beliefs, the ones you prefer that are in alignment with who you know you are.

Yes. Yes. And so what if you experience a little anxiety here and there? So what?

**Question:** I guess I don't want to be naive.

**Bashar:** You don't want to be naive. Sometimes it's good to be prudent about what you... We are not in any way, shape, or form invalidating the idea of prudence. But what is it you believe you're being naive about?

**Question:** What other people's reactions might be?

**Bashar:** How is that being naive? Are you saying that you believe they will believe you're naive? No, I'm actually thinking that they might well what? Attack you. It really comes down to rejection. Just withdraw. Just go away.

All right. May I ask you another question? Of course. Thank you. I will. Do you exist? The correct answer is yes. One of the laws yes. You exist. Yes. That means what? Do you know what that means? That I exist and that I won't not exist. Which means that all that is in its infinite wisdom must know that in order for all that is to be all that is, you are necessary. And without you, all that is wouldn't be all that is. Would it? No. Would it? No, it would not. Thank you. Therefore, if all that is believes that you are absolutely vital, what do you care what anyone else thinks? Excellent point. Thank you, Mr.

Because all those other people are just other versions of all that is giving you an opportunity to actually decide what you prefer to buy into. Yes. Yes. I know that it surprises me that this issue.

Well, then stop rejecting yourself and you won't get reflections of rejection or if you do, you will invoke the sacred two-word mantra. So what?

That's probably the key, isn't it? It's all about perspective. That's all it's all about. Yes. Yes. Does this help?

**Question:** It does. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Do us a favor. Yes. All right. You don't have to, but if you wish to. If it's exciting, I will. Thank you. Seeking enlightenment usually just means lightening up on yourself. I've never heard that before. Thank you. Thank you.

---

### Question 11: Relationship to Shaloniah

**Question:** Hello Bashar and to you good day and I want to say thank you so much from everybody from Jackson Mississippi. We had a group especially Karen who there was Karen just before so I know I'm supposed to ask a question. I am with following my highest excitement and Karen couldn't so I'm asking for both of us what is our relationship with the Shaloniah?

**Bashar:** You mean yours personally yes. You have incarnations both in the Shaloniah and in those children that will eventually be returned to your world.

**Question:** Will I get to meet them in this reality?

**Bashar:** The probability at this particular moment is approximately 87%.

**Question:** That sounds pretty good. It is what it is. Yes. Thank you. I've also had a lot of in my lifetimes a lot of UFO sightings, big big ships that hover over my house.

**Bashar:** Do you recognize them as ships? Or are you not certain? Yes, they are ships.

**Question:** Then they are UFOs. If yes, thank you. Yes, I recognize them as ships. Are some of them Essani?

**Bashar:** Are they triangular? Yes. Then some of them are. But some of them are also Shaloniah or in their own language Yael. Yes.

**Question:** Is part of the way that they come to me is when you have that emotion and then what you were talking about today about the slight change in our frequency yes is that how they materialize sometimes okay and where do I come from?

**Bashar:** Earth? Well, haha. You must understand the absolute illogic of that question in light of what we've been discussing today. Yes, that is true. That is true. The personality that you call yourself obviously originates from Earth. The idea, however, is that every single one of you have multiple simultaneous incarnations in all sorts of places, including other planets. So, if they all exist at the same time, how can you come from any one of them? That makes a lot of sense. Thank you.

Learn to ask the question in the context of what we have been sharing. That is true. That's what I was doing. Therefore, yes, the idea might be to what other incarnations that exist simultaneously am I making cross connections energetically from this life. That sounds great. But it's not where do I come from? You see the difference? Yes. Sirius is a very strong connection that you are having with regard to the idea of this life and you also have strong Orion connection. Yes.

**Question:** Thank you. Also one other question about Bentwaters case the RAF Bentwaters. Yes. Was that a Sasani ship?

**Bashar:** No. What ship? Where did they come from? One moment. No. Not at this time. Not at this time. Thank you. Thank you very much.

---

### Question 12: Non-Physical Societies

**Question:** Good day, Bashar. And are you good day? You mentioned before that we could acclimatize to your world.

**Bashar:** It can be done if you make the appropriate shift. You would be after a time quite comfortable on our planet. Although at first you might be a little bit dizzy because of the higher oxygen content and lower gravity. So it is not that different from your planet in that sense.

**Question:** So you as a society going from a physical being to a non-physical being, but your world still reflected as a physical world. Yes. And we still have bodies you would perceive as physical to some degree.

**Question:** Are you familiar with societies that translate to non-physical beings and they live in as a society their world that been reflected is non-physical realm completely?

**Bashar:** There are many many levels of non-physical consciousness that we interact with. Our own higher self-reflections are a non-physical collective consciousness connected to the star system of Sirius. But what my question was if you're familiar with a society that... I don't know if should I say a place but they choose to live in a realm that it's non-physical completely.

**Question:** For example our society if it's possible in the future that they will not exist in the world that you live at right now and they will choose to be only in a non-physical realm.

**Bashar:** Yes. And your society eventually as well. Does that answer your question?

**Question:** Yes. All right. It will take your society about a thousand years to get to that point. Still got time. Plenty. Enjoy yourself. No hurry, no rush. Live in the moment.

---

### Question 13: Teaching as Excitement

**Question:** Hello, Bashar. And you? Good day. How are you? Perfect. And you? I'm never better. Thank you. You're getting me a little bit of trouble. You say always follow your highest joy. Yes. So, coming in here, what I did was I looked at a little piece of paper at the back that said, "If you had a question, put your name on it." So, I did and I put in a little bowl. So, my wife said, "Well, why are you putting your name in a bowl if you have no questions? I have no more questions in life."

**Bashar:** You don't need questions. You don't need questions. You can make a statement.

**Question:** So, I'm making a statement. Thank you. The statement is, "Why did you create this joy for me back there knowing that I would I'm just kidding." Yeah. So, I'm sitting over here. I've got no question. And I'm looking at the little kid that came up earlier thinking I have to come up with a better question than him for the love of God. Why? Then I thought the guy with the dreadlocks was going to have a bad question, but actually it was quite insightful.

**Bashar:** They are all insightful if you look at them from the correct perspective.

**Question:** So I've got this. I just finished a book that's coming out in August. All right. Am I supposed to be teaching this, the power of the mind, the new way of...

**Bashar:** Is that what excites you? It is what excites me. Yeah. Well, then you have your answer. There it is.

**Question:** And is the question better than the little kid's?

**Bashar:** That's a statement. Your question is a little kid's question. There you go. Wait a second. And since we're supposed to act and become like little children, that's the essence of life anyway, isn't it? It is highest joy. Thank you very much. Our love to you.

---

### Question 14: Repeating Numbers and Visualization

**Question:** Good day, Bashar. And you good day. I've been getting reoccurring numbers in my life and I was just wondering if there's...

**Bashar:** It is a typical synchronicity that many of you get. You use certain numerical symbols and a variety of other symbols as markers, road markers to show you that you are in the correct vibration on your path. Okay, great. Is that it?

**Question:** Okay, I'll have another one. Oh, all right. Since you read energies, is there any advice or anything you can tell me from reading mine?

**Bashar:** Are you acting on your highest joy every moment that you possibly can with absolutely no expectation of what the outcome ought to be? Hesitation usually means no.

**Question:** Well, I I I do you do the best you can. Joy, you do the best you can. But I do put expectations at the end of it.

**Bashar:** Why do you not actually wish something to manifest that is actually representative of the joy you feel? You understand why you're asking this question? It's a paradox.

**Question:** I'm a little confused.

**Bashar:** Thank you. That's a good place to be. Confused. Allow yourself to understand expectation actually limits your ability to attract what is truly most reflective of your highest passion in the negative way that you typically mean it on your planet.

Let me give you an example if I may. Many of you use visualization as a tool to imagine, to visualize what to you represents the absolute ideal reality, the ideal circumstance, the ideal experience. And that's all well and good. The idea, however, is that many of you get stuck in the visualization, in the image, in insisting that that image has to be the best possible representation of that idea, of that reality. And it isn't always so.

The idea of the visualization is to put you in the proper energy state. Because when you have the visualization of what you consider to be your ideal scenario, ideal reality, you get excited about it. It's the excitement that's important, not the image. The image is just there as a symbol to kickstart, as you say, that excitement, that state of being. Then when you're in that state of being, let the image go. Let the visualization go because at that point it's only holding you back because your physical mind is not designed to be able to actually imagine how something is going to manifest. It's only capable of experiencing what has manifested.

Only the higher mind knows how something's going to happen. Physical mind is not capable of knowing that. Not designed to know that. It's not its job to know that. Its job is to experience what is happening.

Therefore, the idea is that when you create with the physical mind, with your imagination, the idea of a visualization of an image that's symbolically representative of the ideal reality or scenario, you feel excited. Let that excitement continue. Generate it, amplify it, stay in it, immerse yourself in it. Then let the image go. Because what to the physical mind may seem to be the ceiling, to the higher mind is just the floor. And the higher mind is capable of actually bringing you something far greater than the physical mind imagined that will actually be truly representative of the energy state.

You follow?

**Question:** Yeah, that's perfect. Yes. Because I have been doing a lot of visualization.

**Bashar:** There you go. So visualization paradoxically is to create an energy state and actually let the visual go in order to allow higher mind to bring you the manifestation that is actually truly representative of the energy state. Now sometimes it might be similar or coincide with what you actually saw for a variety of reasons we will not go into right now. But that doesn't really matter. It's really just for the point of allowing you to experience the energy state so that the higher mind can give you what is actually representative of that energy state if you will not insist on a particular image with the physical mind. Make sense?

**Question:** Sure does. Thank you. Thank you.

---

### Question 15: Hybrid Children and Cetacean Connections

**Question:** Hello, Bashar. And to you, good day. I'm very... Speak up and be bold. I am very excited. Oh, all right. Thank you. to be here with you and all of you. I also was in Hawaii with April and the folks swimming with the dolphins. Right. April with the cetacean.

**Bashar:** Yes. All of them. Well, not all of them. All the ones that were there with us. Yes. Thank you.

**Question:** On one of the days April shared about her relationship with you, Nania. Nania. Yes. And I woke up the next morning.

**Bashar:** Good for you. That was good. I woke up the next morning. For some of you that's an accomplishment. Knowing that I too was a hybrid.

**Bashar:** Well, you're all hybrids of a sort.

**Question:** Yes, I knew you were going to say that.

**Bashar:** How psychic of you. It's a hybrid trait.

**Question:** You know, one of the stories that ran through my mind in the morning was that my mother was temporarily detained on purpose, of course, right? and that I too was and I have I know I'm pretty sure at least one hybrid child. Can you tell me more about this? Do you have any sense of this for me in terms of the percentage of your genetic material as we scan your energy that exceeds the idea of 80% you actually have 3 to 5 hybrid children. Thank you. There are others that have utilized some of your genetic material, but below that percentage at this time, we will not necessarily consider them your children per se for the moment for a variety of reasons. Thank you.

**Question:** Can you also tell me how closely associated I am with Essani creation and my other parallel lives there?

**Bashar:** You have some connection to the idea of the genetic line that ultimately resulted in us as well as another hybrid race we will not discuss.

**Question:** I also feel myself and it's starting to create itself already as a first contact specialist.

**Bashar:** All right. The fun thing about it is I'm sharing with my grandchildren and they're kind of pointing out me now as being an alien and exploring the idea of who aliens are and what why they are showing up or will be showing up. And so I'm already feeling like a first contact specialist in that way.

**Bashar:** You have good practice. Thank you. Yes. Yes. What can you... I think that I'm pretty sure that I am also closely associated with Sirius.

**Bashar:** Yes. Not as much as you may think, but some more Sirius.

**Question:** More Sirius. Can you tell me other connections that might be okay? That's perfect because I get that. What about?

**Bashar:** One moment. Thank you. What about not you? Oh, were you about to add something? No. Are you talking to me now? No. Nania, were you about to add something to that? Which is strongly Sirius. Dolphin lives. All right. Dolphin lives. Many of you forget that you also have dolphin incarnations. Yes. Thank you.

**Question:** I've thought of that in the past as well.

**Bashar:** Well, you can think about it now. Think of it now. Yes. It's really a blessing to go to the ocean and each time dolphins show up for me and and whales and oh my god, the time we got to play with the we call them oritos and the false killer whales.

**Bashar:** False. We understand. False killer whales.

**Question:** I had a sense of that as if they are a hybrid between dolphin and whale.

**Bashar:** They are the hybrid of the dolphin and the whale in many ways they exhibit that to some degree but there are other symbols they also reflect such as such as are you coaching now? I'll extend it to the idea of the killer whales themselves which we have referred to before as the samurai of the sea. And I'll leave it at that. Thank you.

**Question:** Also I feel a strong sisterhood with April as Essani Bashar that triangle of beings. Can you tell me more about that?

**Bashar:** No. You can't tell me more about it? Not at this time. Okay. There are things unfolding we are not meant to disturb. We are not meant to open your presents or spill your beans when you are in the middle of a process of discovery that you need to discover yourself so that the appreciation of the discovery will be part of your experience. Yes, thank you.

**Question:** I would like to have and I had this huge opening yesterday that really blew away a lot of my blockages which I'm so eternally grateful for.

**Bashar:** Sounds exciting. It is exciting because I get to be here now 100%. There is nowhere else you can be. Well, yeah, but 100% sure feels good. No. And so, yes. I'm wondering about my dream time if some of these folks that you're talking to over there can open up more for me in my dream time.

**Bashar:** Listen carefully. We are all always sending. It's up to you to learn to receive more of what we're sending already. You don't need to invite us to send more. All of you just need to receive more. All right. Yes. Thank you. Pleasant dreams. Love to you. Thank you. Our unconditional love to you as well.

---

### Question 16: The Energy Ball Game

**Question:** Tada. Nania, there was a question that came up when you were discussing that about the cetaceans and the connection with Essani. Yes. And it had to do with a game that we all played during the workshop where we were sitting in a circle and we played an energy ball game. Yes. where we were each individual on their own was playing with an energy ball in the center. Yes. And then afterwards we were sharing what we had experienced. Yes. And one of the things that happened was that all of us seemed to flicker in and out of this reality and to actually appear in the Essani dimension.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Question:** Do you know why?

**Bashar:** Well, our vibration was high enough and we simply... Yes. But specifically because all of us are associated with that location. Yes, but more specifically because we knew that we could do it. All right, I'll give you a hand. All right, I got it. No, remember there are actually a few Earth dolphins on our planet in our oceans and a group of children at the same time were in the same kind of circle using the same kind of energy forming a link to what you were doing simultaneously so that you would experience being in both places at once.

**Question:** That was actually it took the words right out of my mouth.

**Bashar:** Would you like them back?

**Question:** Yeah, that is exactly what it felt like. Like our counterparts, we were flickering in and out with our counterparts. Thank you. That was very exciting.

**Bashar:** It still is. That's true. That's true. Okay. Thank you.

---

### Question 17: Barnard's Star Civilization

**Question:** Good afternoon, Andrew. You good day. I was hoping to have you were what? I'd like some information on the civilization you've been talking about at Barnard Star. Yes. Can you give us some details about?

**Bashar:** As we have said, even though it is not identical, they are approximately in about the same kind of place in their evolution that your civilization experienced in what you call the Renaissance. However, they view the idea of what you have called UFOs quite openly. There is no secrecy with this idea in their civilization. There is no real open contact yet per se, but they are understanding that there can be. They are willing at this point to understand that their civilization and those civilizations exist in parallel and they are exploring different ways within their society to allow a merger to occur. But it hasn't really occurred yet.

They have various forms of technology, some of which you would consider relatively simple, some of which you would consider actually quite sophisticated, even though they are all still simple. Many of them understand many of the things technologically that the person on your planet called Tesla understood. They are quite intuitive about this idea. Thus, they have inventions on their planet that you would marvel at and wonder why you don't have even though they are actually quite simplistic that do things beyond your immediate capabilities. Nevertheless, overall they are in that sense artistic, communicative, expressive. They love to sing. Most of them music is highly regarded in their society. Not necessarily representative of what you would consider Renaissance style music exactly, but there are some similarities especially in the idea of stringed instruments which they absolutely adore as well as wind instruments although again they tend to be somewhat simple.

Is there something else specific you wish to know about that civilization orbiting Barnard's star other than the fact that eventually when you achieve true space travel you will all become their UFOs as well and one of the first contacts will be had with your civilization. In a sense, let's put it this way. We have cleared a space for you to allow them to be your first contact so that in a sense you can practice with them. Find your footing with them. Have a wonderful pleasant exchange with your first contact.

Because many people on your planet believe that if we're already truly out here in space as we are, that all the real estate is already taken up and that there's no room for you and nothing could be further from the truth. There are many pathways for you to explore, many first experiences for you to have that are very exciting. What is before you is truly thrilling and many of you really have no idea how grand it will be. But this is one little tiny sneak peek into a small corner of the experiences coming up for your civilization in interacting with other civilizations and becoming your own version of what we are also becoming.

Is there something else specific about this you wish to discuss?

**Question:** What do they call their planet?

**Bashar:** We will not say at this time.

**Question:** And also when will we based on probabilities when will we develop space travel so that we can go visit them?

**Bashar:** Somewhere between 150 to 300 years. Now, that doesn't mean that you can't visit them sooner on our ships, but I answered your question in terms of when will you be in a place where that is routine. You understand the difference? Yeah. All right. Introductions will be made before you have that capability yourself. Is that sufficient?

**Question:** Well, do people in this room have incarnations on that planet?

**Bashar:** They do.

**Question:** Do I have that?

**Bashar:** You do? Okay.

**Question:** So, can we consider the training that we're doing with you as the first steps to becoming contact specialists in some way?

**Bashar:** Smart boy.

**Question:** And I have one more question. Yes. It's about the multiple simultaneous incarnations. Yes. So we have a is there a certain amount or infinite that each soul has of these multiple?

**Bashar:** It is finite at any given moment depending upon the idea of the theme that is being explored by the oversoul. It is infinite in its scope generally, but for any particular theme, there are usually a finite number of incarnations exploring that particular theme from the oversoul's perspective. And it's all happening at the same time. There is only now.

**Question:** Okay. So, it's all happening now. Yes. So, just using me as an example, how many incarnations do I have at simultaneously right now doing this theme that seems like the only reality for me?

**Bashar:** 1,258.

**Question:** And are they on different planets or all on this planet?

**Bashar:** They are on different versions of Earth and some are on different planets. So, since everything's happening now, yes. When you withdraw from your body, your physical, when you expand beyond your physical focus, okay, what are the decisions that you have to make if everything's already happening?

**Bashar:** Remember that the idea is that there is still some degree of experience of temporal reality even though it is much different than you experience as a physical being. They can still create the experience of making choices and doing things linearly one thing after another. At the same time in spirit you have much more capability of experiencing the simultaneity of things as well. It depends upon your point of view and what it is you wish to explore. But you have in that sense different choices to make. Some of them you could relate to from this perspective. Others are absolutely unrelatable to you right now. Did that help?

**Question:** Yeah, it does. Okay, that's all from me. All right. Thank you. Thank you.

---

### Question 18: History of the Essani

**Question:** Good day, Bashar. And you good day. I was actually wondering about the history of your race, the Essani. Yes. What was it?

**Bashar:** Well, we are a hybrid race. We were created in a sense along with the other four hybrid races on four different planets that were in a sense what you would call terraformed for us. We are the product of the genetic program between your particular planet and those you call the grays, which are not really aliens, but simply mutated humans from a parallel reality Earth that destroyed their environment and mutated into what you presently perceive them to be. In that they could not reproduce any longer. They created the idea of the hybridization program to use viable human DNA from your Earth and other parallel Earth realities to strengthen their civilization so it would continue.

Thus, we are one of the five different civilizations that exist right now that are representative of the different continuations of their old civilization. But we were put on a planet in a sense with a little bit of what you might call a head start from you. Thus then even though we experienced certain things that you've experienced, there were many things we did not experience. We did not have the degree of limitations that you experienced on Earth. And thus then were able to in a sense evolve much more rapidly. Plus, of course, if you add in the idea that we exist in a phased dimensional reality that operates at 10 times the frequency of yours, thus you will understand that what to you might seem to be 300 years, to us is 3,000 years of history.

**Question:** Has it always been like that for you and your people?

**Bashar:** Again, we experienced in the very beginnings the ideas that are more similar to your own. We experienced disease. We did things very physically in the way that you do them now. But as we evolved and as we unified very rapidly, we experienced great upliftments. And thus then we became unified and telepathic with each other relatively quickly. And at that point we progressed at a highly accelerated rate to now where we are as we say moving from physical to non-physical reality. And thus recognizing that you are our ancestors in many ways and as we go up the ladder it seems that because we are family that it is thus then our excitement to also assist you in moving up your own ladder.

**Question:** What was it like for you guys to go through the first change like that we are about to go through?

**Bashar:** Shocking. Wow. Stunning. Awe inspiring. But there are things that we had to learn. You must understand that there is a reference in our society to a being that we call in our ancient language Shakana. Shakana. When that being was born, instantly within three days, telepathically unified all of us. Wow. If that isn't a shock, we don't know what is. It took a little while to get used to that idea in our history, but eventually we understood that by living in the moment and allowing synchronicity to be our guide. Thus then everything happened in exactly the perfect place at the perfect time with exactly whom it needed to happen with. And once we realized that that's the way life works, we let it and rode the wave. We didn't fight it.

There are still things that we discovered. There are things that have happened in our society as we explore that you might call accidents, but we know there's no such thing really as an accident. Nevertheless, we learn and there are still many mysteries that we are fascinated by and are constantly exploring and learning new things even as you do.

**Question:** Would you like to give us any information on how to better go into this new route?

**Bashar:** I have given you exactly the correct formula. All right. Perhaps you were not paying attention. No, I was I just was wondering if there was extra anything you wanted to add.

**Bashar:** There is truly nothing else. Act on your highest excitement to the best of your ability every moment that you can, taking it as far as you can possibly take it until you can take it no further with zero expectation of the outcome. That's the formula. Now, if you want to add anything extra and complicate it, by all means, go ahead. But it is that simple.

We understand, however, that because of the way many of you have been brought up on your planet, you find simplicity very difficult. Things that seem too simple seem not worthwhile. That's a definition. We don't happen to buy into it. You don't have to, but if you do, we're not here to force you to change your mind or your process. We are only here to reflect to you possibilities, choices, opportunities which you do not have to take.

We love you so unconditionally, we allow you to not feel that you are unconditionally loved. That's how much we love you. Wow. So if that is your choice, you have all our support. However, if you wish to allow it to be easy, allow it to be simple and walk the path of least resistance. That is the formula. That's all there is to it. There's nothing else to add except what you wish to add to make it more complicated. Excellent. Thank you.

**Question:** Does that help you? It does a lot. And I was actually wondering about how your race pertains to ours and the change we're going through.

**Bashar:** Well, as we said, we are going from fourth to fifth density as you are going from third to fourth. We are moving up the ladder together in our own way.

**Question:** Are other beings doing that too?

**Bashar:** Of course they are.

**Question:** Are is everyone?

**Bashar:** Many beings are expanding in a variety of ways. Some would seem in a sense to be digressing, descending, disconnecting. That however is still part of the overall process of experience and learning. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Have a good day.

---

## Holotope Guided Meditation

At this timing, it is now the timing to prepare for the holotope meditation to crystallize the ideas we have shared in this transmission. Please enjoy a very short break and we will resume the transmission momentarily.

---

All right. Say, let us continue this transmission in the following way.

Relax. Relax. Relax. Relax.

Be at ease.

Allow yourself to drift.

Keep your eyes wide open and focused on the center of the holotope before you. Understanding that this is actually a mirror. You're looking at yourself, a version of yourself, an energy pattern of your consciousness, a reflection of the vibrational patterns of all that you are within all that is.

And as you begin to relax and stay focused on the center of the holotope, allow your music and your lights to move.

And as this energy moves through you, into you, around you, becomes you. You relax more and more knowing that all of the neurological pathways of your brain are being rewired in the way that is most conducive and most conductive to your path of least resistance, to flow freely, lovingly, creatively, beautifully, peacefully in balance, in harmony, in alignment, in love with all that you are.

And that you will allow this energy now coursing through your being, finding new paths, creating new paths, rewiring your brain, you will allow yourself to know that as you allow this shift to occur, you will be a far more receptive antenna, far more sensitive positive receiver to all the higher energies that are always, always radiating to you from all that is.

You will let them in because you know you now know that these energies are there to support you, there to serve you, unconditionally and will always allow you more and more in every way, every day, and every moment to expand and explore and discover more and more of who you truly are.

Imagine now. Imagine now. Imagine as you allow your body to relax, your mind to relax, your emotions to relax, your spirit to relax. Imagine. Imagine. Imagine as you peer at this mirror and as it peers back, the eye of all that is is upon you in its loving gaze.

Imagine, imagine, imagine you have a gift, a gift being given to you, being handed to you, to you, child of creation, a gift, a beautifully wrapped gift.

And as you take this gift in your hands with delight, excitement, and glee, an anticipation of what lies within, you allow your fingers to delicately touch the end of the energy bow that wraps this present. And gently, gently, gently, you tug and pull and the bow comes apart, falls away.

And you unwrap this gift, sheathed in its delicate colored papers, beautiful rainbow of spectral colors. And you open the wrapping and it falls away. And there before you is a beautifully carved box set with jewels, glistening crystalline.

And you touch the lid and open the lid and peer within. And there is deep, deep, deep velvet in the box, plush, soft, comforting. And you peer deeper in. And there, deep within the box, a tiny spark of light, delicate, pristine, precise, brilliant, sharp, clear spark of light, radiating, pulsating, beautiful colors. An array of colors like you've never seen. Delicate, clear, brilliant, transparent, translucent, opaque, crystalline, glittering, glistening, beautiful, beautiful, shining forth, shining bright.

And you reach in. And you pick up the spark on your fingertip. And it rests there on the tip of one finger before your eyes, reflecting in your glistening eyes as you behold the miracle, the marvel of your spark of life, your spark of being, your spark of awareness, your spark of consciousness, your spark of existence.

This is you, your unique spark. There is none other like it in all of creation. In all of creation. In all of creation. There is only one spark like this spark and it is you. It is the spark of the eternal now, the infinite now, the here and now, forever and ever and ever and now.

And you raise this spark on your fingertip. And you bring it closer and closer and closer. And you touch the spark gently to your third eye. And you touch the spark gently to your lips. And you touch the spark gently to your heart. And the spark sinks within you.

And you feel the warm radiance of the spark as it fills your heart with light. Like the embers of a softly glowing fire, they expand and warm you and soften you and melt away all the ideas, all the concerns, all the worries, and all the beliefs that have nothing to do with you. For you are only here and you are only now.

And that spark, that spark, that spark shall always be available to you, to give you strength, to encourage you, to guide you, to support you, to caress you, to fill you up and fulfill you and to radiate wave after wave after wave of loving energy with every beat of your heart.

A bubble of light speeds outward at the speed of light to encompass and embrace and immerse every being on your planet, every being in creation.

Spark of unconditional love from which you were created, of which you are made. It is indestructible, eternal and infinite in its capacity for creation, awareness, beauty, love. And it is you eternally you.

And as you feel this radiance within you, the vibrations caressing you, filling you up, and you feel all the neurological pathways rearranging, melting in this crucible, melting to pure crystal liquid clarity and recrystallizing in a pure form. Pristine, precise, clean and clear with insight and understanding of the structure of existence itself.

You are witness to the bones of God. And you understand that you are one. And you feel yourself melt away, melt away, melt away. And yet you still remain. For as you exist now, so shall you ever exist. In a variety of forms, as you shift from world to world, reality to reality, experience to experience, you will change and change and change, and yet also always be you.

And as you awaken into new dreams and wake up into more of yourself, you shall always discover that you are more of who you are. For all that exists in the unknown is simply more of your true self. For that is all there is to discover: but reflections of the true you as your unique aspect of all that is.

Imagine. Imagine. Imagine. Imagine yourself choosing only that which is you. Only that which is your frequency. Only that which is your natural self. Only that which is here and now. For there is no other place and no other time. There is nowhere. There is no when else to be.

Take a deep breath in and make this your own. Crystallize this knowledge within you and remember that knowing is synonymous with action so that as you know yourself, you will be yourself and shall be a shining example to all that they too in seeing this in you can live their dreams instead of simply dreaming about living.

You are God's dreams. Be the dream that you are. Be at peace.

Take a deep breath in and let it out with the absolute knowledge that you are shifting all the time, trusting all the time, knowing all the time who you truly are. You have but to listen, and you will hear your true tone, clear as a bell, crystal clear, a pure note of unconditional love.

And with that bell shall be the spark of light that exists now and forever. Always here. Always you.

Take another deep breath in and hold it. And hold it. And hold it and blow it out, clearing away all that has nothing to do with you.

Refreshed, relaxed, rejuvenated, re-energized, reborn. Choose. You are upgraded. You are you 2.0.

Allow yourself to vibrate in accord. And all that you attract into your life, whether compatible with your vibration or not, shall always be capable of being used by you to create a positive effect in your life and allow you to act as a shining example for others. So they too know they can also choose to be themselves. And that makes all the difference. All the difference. All the difference.

---

## Closing

Allow yourselves now to know that while there is always the opportunity to choose what you do not prefer, you now know that by living in the now and living in the here, everything is in balance and that you always give yourself the opportunity to choose what you prefer because it is simply a reflection of who you know yourself to be. And that in that context, there simply is no other choice for you but to be who you are.

No longer do you need to bend yourself into shapes that are not you. No longer do you need to stretch and contort yourself to conform to what you know you are not. At the same time, bless that which you are not. For it has taught you who you are.

For everything is a stepping stone. And by staying on the stone you are on right now do you create the opportunity to step to the next stone. Invalidate any place you are. Invalidate any portion of yourself and there is no stone from which to step.

Everything that is is what needs to be. And if you treat it that way, learn from it that way, accept it and allow it that way, it shall support you, serve you, for that is the nature of existence. And that is all it has ever done. You get to choose what it supports you in. Why not choose what you know is true for you?

As you now continue to breathe, allow your music to soften. Allow your lights to soften. Soften. Soften. And as you now awake into a new reality, know that you truly are new people, new reflections of all that is experiencing itself this way for the first time and that every time is the first time.

Experience life through the eyes of a child for you are children of creation.

