---
title: Association of Ideas
heading: "Section 3"
description: There is a connection between the different thoughts or ideas of the mind, and that, in their appearance to the memory or imagination
c: "steelblue"	
weight: 10
writer:
  name: David Hume
  url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Hume
icon: "David Hume"
--- 



There is a connection between:
- the different thoughts or ideas of the mind
- their appearance to the memory or imagination

They introduce each other with method and regularity.

<!-- In our more serious thinking or discourse this is so observable that  -->

Any thought which breaks in on the regular tract or chain of ideas is immediately remarked and rejected.


Our dreams have different ideas that are connected with each other in succession.

<!-- , we shall find, if we reflect, that the imagination ran not altogether at adventures, but that there was still a connexion upheld among the , which succeeded each other. -->

If we write down the freest conversation, we would find in it an idea or theme.

<!-- Or where this is wanting, the person who broke the thread of discourse might still inform you, that there had secretly revolved in his mind a succession of thought, which had gradually led him from the subject of conversation. -->


The compounded words of different languages do nearly correspond to each other.

<!-- , even where we cannot suspect the least connexion or communication, it is found, that the words, expressive of ideas, the most compounded,  -->

This is proof that the simple ideas are:
- comprehended in the compound ones
- bound together by some universal principle, which had an equal influence on all mankind.


<sup>19</sup> Different ideas are connected together.

<!-- Though it be too obvious to escape observation, that  -->

I cannot find any philosopher who has enumerated the principles of association.

 <!-- a subject, however, that seems worthy of curiosity. -->

To me, there are only 3 principles of connexion among ideas:

1. Resemblance
2. Contiguity in time or place
3. Cause or Effect

<!-- These principles serve to connect ideas will not be much doubted. -->

1 - A picture naturally leads our thoughts to the original

2 - the mention of one apartment in a building naturally introduces an enquiry on the others

3 - If we think of a wound, we reflect on the pain which follows it

4 - But that this enumeration is complete, and that there are no other principles of association except these, may be difficult to prove to the satisfaction of the reader, or even to a man's own satisfaction. 

All we can do in such cases is to:
- run over several instances
- examine carefully the principle which binds the different thoughts to each other until we render the principle as general as possible. 

The more instances we examine, and the more care we employ, the more assurance shall we acquire, that the enumeration, which we form from the whole, is complete and entire.
