---
title: "Orinoco's Quest"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2019-12-07
icon: Bashar
weight: 1380
showdate: true
---


Daryl: I recently wrote the first book in a series of sci-fi books called *Shards of a Shattered Mirror*, which is loosely based on the reality of Willa: 700 Years in the Future. Are some of you here familiar with it at this point? Okay. I would certainly like to announce that the second book is done. Thank you. And that will be out at the beginning of 2020, and I'm four chapters into the third book.

This story is actually from the third book, which is called *Shape Shifter*. And this is a story known to Willa and the human and hybrid children of 700 years in the future. It's kind of a sometimes bedtime story, but it's also kind of a story about a journey. So I wanted to read this to you tonight. Bashar will probably talk about it a little bit after I'm done, and we'll see where that takes us on our journey. But before we do that, we can go ahead and pull the names first if you wish.


## Oruronoko's Quest

Orunnino Sandival was a 13-year-old hybrid girl with caramel eyes that matched her warm complexion. Her wide, friendly face was framed by long, straight hair, black as a crow. Typical of the inhabitants of the lush jungle that bordered the Amazon Sea in the year 2533, she stood atop an ancient Mayan pyramid that gave her an incredible view of the jungle canopy. But her sights were set much farther north toward the land once known as Venezuela. Some still referred to the original country names for convenience. But Oronoko had grown up hundreds of years after the sea levels rose, hundreds of years after the landing, and just as long after deconstruction and restoration had transformed most of the planet back to a relatively natural state. Thus, she knew no borders save those drawn by nature, such as rivers, lakes, mountain ranges, and oceans.

The place she would travel to was now known only by its most stunning natural feature, Cueva del Fantasma, which meant the Cave of the Ghost. Though in reality a collapsed gorge rather than a true cave, Fantasma was nevertheless impressive. Its ceiling was over 600 feet high, and it hosted a towering waterfall at the entrance. Orunnoko would begin her vision quest there and then move through the twisting tunnels of the other cave systems nearby in her search for a vision that would reveal her purpose in life. However, it was said that three great guardians lived in the caves and that one must pass their tests in order to receive a vision.

Orunno's mother, father, grandparents, and older siblings had been preparing her for the journey that her grandmother Magdalena had taken when she was Oronoko's age. Magdalena had invented puzzles and games to sharpen Oruronoko's wits and tasks to strengthen her body and boost her confidence. But she was still nervous, especially because her grandmother wouldn't tell her what the guardians were like or what the tests would be. She would only say that each person must find out for themselves or the tests wouldn't count and no vision would come.

The only thought that allowed Oruronoko to relax, even if only a little, was the knowledge that her grandmother's vision quest led her to become a powerful medicine woman, cherished and respected far and wide for her wisdom and knowledge of healing plants and herbs. So, how hard could it really be? Perhaps the suspense at the beginning of the journey was part of the test as well.

Orunno took several deep breaths and gazed upon the verdant jungle that stretched before her. She felt herself grow calm, or at least less nervous. She clambered down the pyramid steps and raced down the dirt path toward home so she wouldn't be late for evening meal. Her mother, Octavia, was making black bean risotto and sweet onions sautéed in lemon garlic sauce along with plantains drizzled in maple syrup for dessert. It was best if the main meal was eaten while still hot before it cooled into mushy paste.

That night after supper, Oronoko leaned against the wood railing on the wrap-around covered balcony of her family's two-story adobe house, the smell of the jungle in her nostrils as she gazed out at the Amazon Sea through the trees, mesmerized by the moonlight that danced on the water. Her father, Santiago, brought out two glasses of sweet tea and handed one to his daughter as he joined her to admire the view. Though Oronoko's mother was a hybrid, Santiago was human, a gentle man of great warmth and deep insights. He stood quietly next to Oruronoko and inhaled the night air perfumed by rare jungle flowers.

"Papa," said Orunno, "what if I don't receive a vision? How will I know my purpose?"

"Your purpose is the same as everyone's," Santiago assured her. "To be you, the best you can be. We each express our purpose differently by acting on what gives us passion in life. Your vision may reveal the best way to follow your passion, may allow you to discover something deep inside yourself that you weren't aware of. If you learn from what the vision shows you and use the knowledge to more fully express your true nature, you will fulfill your purpose in life."

Orunnoko absorbed her father's wisdom as she sipped her tea. "You mean like mother's art?"

"Yes, but it's not just about painting," her father said. "It's about what her paintings reveal about her spirit, her soul, and how they act as mirrors for others to bring forth thoughts and feelings they didn't know were hidden within them until they gazed upon your mother's beautiful works of art."

"I hope I have a vision as strong as grandmother's," Orunno said.

Santiago's laugh was soft and soothing. "Wish for a stronger vision, Miha. Children should aspire to be greater than those who came before."

Later, Oruronoko tossed and turned in her bed, unable to sleep. All manner of strange creatures inhabited her imagination as she wondered what she might encounter on her quest. Her mother, Octavia, gently knocked and entered. "I thought you'd be awake," she said with a smile. She set a cup of hot peppermint tea on Orgonoko's bedside table. The fragrant brew always helped her drift off, although Oronoka wasn't sure she could be lulled into slumber this night. However, the aroma was soothing. She sat up, took the cup in hand, and inhaled the steam as her mother sat next to her on the bed.

"You're lucky, Mama," Orunno said. "I only need to look at you, Miha, to know that."

"I mean, because you always knew your gift," Orunno sniffed. "You didn't need to go on a vision quest."

"Our callings come to us in different ways," her mother said. "I believe you are luckier than I am."

"How am I lucky?" Orunno said with a puzzled look.

"You get to go on a grand adventure like Mama Magda. Who knows what you'll discover on your quest. I'm very excited for you, Oronoko."

Orunno sipped her tea and felt its warmth course through her. "I'll do my best," she promised. Feeling sleepy, she put down the tea and snuggled under the covers. Octavia stood and lowered the room's luminaria to a soft firelight glow. "Just be yourself, Miha. You'll do fine." She kissed Oronoko's cheek.

"I wish you could come with me," Orunno said with a yawn.

Octavia's dark eyes reflected the warm glow of the lamp as she held her daughter in a loving gaze. "Just know that when you think of me, I'll be thinking of you." Octavia closed the bedroom door as she left. The scent of peppermint filled the room and Oruronokco slipped into a deep sleep. In her dream, she floated in an endless sea of stars.

Early the next morning, before the sun had fully risen, Oruronoko set out on her vision quest, water and food secure in her backpack. Her family waved to her from the veranda as she headed down the path. She glanced back and tucked the image of their wide smiles into her memory before she took a deep breath and melted into the jungle.

Orunno walked for half a day before she came to the Cave of the Ghost. It was traditional to stop and rest there on the way to the vision caves. So she sat on a large boulder near the entrance and inhaled the cool mist from the thundering waterfall. Invigorated, she laid out some of her favorite fruits and nuts from her backpack onto a crisp white linen napkin. These weren't for her. They were an offering to the nature spirit called Balam that inhabited the enormous cavern.

Balam was the guardian of the underworld. So to gain permission to enter the caves where Oruronoko would begin her vision quest, an offering had to be made at the Cave of the Ghost first. If Balam accepted the offering, she could continue along the path. If not, she would have to go home and try again another day. She placed the food on a flat rock just beyond the waterfall that cascaded from the plateau high above the cave entrance. As her family had instructed, Oronoko called to the spirit and then went back to her boulder to wait. She wouldn't touch her own food until the offering had been accepted by Balam.

Orunno didn't have to wait long. Balam emerged from the shadows deep within the cave and approached the food. Orunnoko had heard tales of this particular nature spirit since she was a young child, but to witness the entity in person sent a shudder through her that was at once both thrilling and terrifying. Balam was what the locals called an alebrije, a chimeric creature with the head and body of a jaguar, ram horns, eagle wings, sharp talons on its hind legs, and the long sinuous tail of an iguana. It was also gigantic. If it had been a living creature rather than a spirit, it would have easily weighed 1,000 pounds.

Orunninoa was riveted on the being and felt a sensation like ants crawling on her skin as Balam swept his gaze to her like a searchlight. The chimera lowered its massive head to the food and let out a deep purr loud as an engine. The vibration penetrated Oronoko and released a mist of energy from the fruits and nuts she had offered the spirit. Balam inhaled the etheric vapor whereby the physical food withered to dust in seconds as though weeks had passed in a blink. Balam bowed his head to Oronoko in thanks. She had the good sense to bow her head in return. The jaguar spirit plucked a glistening feather from one of its wings with his teeth and laid it on the linen, a sign that Balam had given Orunno permission to continue her quest. The jaguar spirit turned and vanished back into the shadows.

Orunnoko jumped down off her perch and gathered the feather along with the linen. She wasn't sure what else she was supposed to do with the unexpected gift, but she was sure it would somehow help her on her quest once she entered the cave system farther along the path. She quickly ate her midday meal, drank from the waterfall, wrapped the feather in the linen, and carefully tucked it in a side pocket in her pack.

She headed out along the path, accompanied by the varied sounds of the jungle, until a few hours later she arrived at the foot of a stone stairway that had been carved into the cliff face of a towering mesa. It wound around the formation, sometimes passing through it, where tunnels had been cut. The cave where Oronoko would begin her quest was near the top. As she began to climb, Oronoko made sure to keep her eyes on that stairway, as many of the steps were cracked and uneven. She'd heard stories that now and then some who had started the climb lost their footing and fell to their deaths. Her mother and father made her promise to keep her eyes on the path and not be tempted to look out over the countryside as she climbed, no matter how spectacular the view might be.

Oronoko felt a wave of vertigo as she neared the top because the staircase was barely wide enough for a single person, and there was no wall or railing to keep one from plummeting to the ground 2,000 feet below. Finally, at dusk, she reached the cave entrance, an ominous-looking gash in the sheer cliff face. She pulled a small luminaria globe about the size of an orange from her pack, and tapped it to golden light.

This was it, the true beginning of her vision quest. She took a deep breath, exhaled, and as she bit her lower lip to hold her fear at bay, she entered the dark cave's yawning maw.

The luminaria threw long shadows from the stalactites that hung from the ceiling like jagged teeth. The passages through the cave had been cut by flowing water eons ago. There were still deep pools in many of the wide chambers that were fed by seasonal rains that dripped through the cracks in the vaulted roof. Orunnoko descended deep into the heart of the sandstone monolith. The dancing shadows created by her light took on ominous shapes in her imagination and often startled her. Time felt suspended. Each minute felt like an hour. Orunnoko soon lost all sense of time and direction as she walked, climbed, and crawled through the wet, winding pathways.

Finally, a faint blue light in one of the branching tunnels caught her attention. She took the passage until it opened into an enormous cavern that sheltered a lagoon that was several hundred feet across. The ghostly glow emanated from deep under the surface of the still water. As Oruronoko's eyes adjusted, the eerie luminescence grew brighter. She realized with some apprehension that it was because the light was heading toward her. She stepped back from the narrow ledge that bordered the lagoon and watched from within the shelter of the tunnel.

Ripples radiated on the surface as a giant salamander elemental raised its wide, flat head above the water and looked at Oruronoko through eyes dark as ink. The ethereal creature emerged from the lagoon and pulled itself onto a large flat boulder where Oronoko could see its slick, slime-coated body. It was a deep bluish-black splotched with neon blue spots that illuminated the cave.

The elemental uttered a challenge with a voice like liquid light. "If you wish to pass, then knowledge is your key. The answer's in plain sight. Just tell me what you see."

Orunno gathered her courage and stepped back into the cavern. She looked around as she tried to fathom the salamander's meaning. There was nothing unusual about the cavern except that there were several tunnels on the opposite side of the lagoon that led off in different directions. She didn't see anything that made one tunnel stand out over another. Orunno wondered how she would know which tunnel to take if she made it past the elemental. *That must be the test*, she thought. Since there were no other clues in the cave, she turned her attention back to the salamander. Its rubbery skin reminded her of the deep velvety purple color of the night sky just after dusk when stars began to twinkle.

It suddenly hit her. The glowing spots on the elemental's body weren't random. They looked exactly like the constellations her father had taught her about on the evenings they spent staring at the night sky from their balcony. The Pleiades were there, along with the Orion constellation and its three belt stars that, if one drew an imaginary line through them, pointed directly at the brightest star in the sky, Sirius. The spot on the salamander that represented Sirius glowed brighter than all the other asterisms on its body. Its light also illuminated one specific tunnel.

"Your body is the night sky," Orunno exclaimed. "And Sirius lights the way."

"Well done, daughter of night," the salamander said. "You may continue on your quest." The elemental slipped back into the water, and its body no longer blocked Oronoko's view of the stepping stones that led across the lagoon to the tunnel. She followed the path, entered the tunnel, and continued on her way.

The tunnel was filled with sharp, jagged boulders that Oronoko had to climb over or squeeze around. Often she had to remove her backpack and push it ahead of her in order to fit through a narrow space. After what felt like an eternity, she emerged into another large cave, her hands, arms, and legs covered in small cuts from the razor-edged rocks. She stood, held up her luminaria, and peered into the domed cavern.

An enormous spiderweb stretched across the entire expanse of the cave. And in the center, a huge black tarantula with three blood-red spots on its abdomen clutched the web with eight spiny legs, each one three times the length of Oronoko's arms and thick as tree branches. Her luminaria was reflected in all eight of the spider's enormous eyes, but it also revealed several skeletal remains and desiccated corpses caught in the sticky web.

Orunno felt cold fear grip her heart. She took several deep breaths as Magdalena had taught her and slowly felt the warmth of her resolve flood back into her veins.

The spider's voice was an eerie whisper that made Oruronoko's skin crawl. "If you wish to pass, then stealth will be your key. Make your move along a path that my eyes cannot see."

Orunno studied the web. There were several gaps between the web strands that were large enough for her to pass through without getting stuck. But there was no way to approach the gossamer trap without the spider watching her every move. She thought of extinguishing the luminaria, but then she'd have no way of finding a safe path in the dark. Besides, the tarantula was used to living in the dark. It could probably sense her even if the cave was pitch black.

*That's it.* She realized the spider lives in the dark. Orunno held the luminaria overhead and tapped it to full brightness. It was blinding as a miniature sun. The tarantula emitted a high-pitched whine and shielded all eight eyes with its front legs. Orunno ran for the gap in the web before the spider's eyes could adjust. One of the giant arachnid's spine-covered legs shot out to snare her, but Oronoko was through the gap in a flash. The spider's legs scraped against the cave wall with a sound like nails on slate. Orunno kept running until she was well beyond the tarantula's reach.

Orunno lowered the luminaria's light to a soft glow as the spider rotated its body around and peered at her through the web that prevented it from pursuing her. "Well done, daughter of light," the spider said. "You may continue on your quest." Oronoko bowed her head as a sign of respect, and headed down the tunnel at the far end of the spider's den.

She continued through the new tunnel, which was more round and smooth than the other passages had been. It twisted and turned and snaked its way through the mountain until it came to a dead end, where a waterfall plunged downward into a wide, dark hole. The luminaria did nothing to reveal how deep the hole went. And without a rope in her backpack, Oronoko had the sinking feeling that she would either have to jump into the black pit or go back the way she came to try another route. It didn't make sense to her to face the spider and the salamander again. So she decided to take a leap of faith, as her grandmother must have done.

Orunno held her breath and jumped. She only fell a few yards before the hole curved into a smooth tubular water slide. She held the luminaria tight against her chest as the rushing water carried her through curves, dips, and straightaways until the gush of water flushed her from the tunnel and deposited her on her back in a shallow river that coursed through the next cavern. She slid to a stop a few feet from the coiled scales of a titanic sleeping serpent.

Oronoko backpedaled toward the tunnel exit. She knew there was no way back up the water-drenched slope, so she stood and pressed her back against the cave wall. She tapped the luminaria down to its dimmest setting in the hope that the serpent would remain asleep if the cave was dark. Orunno tiptoed to the cave's perimeter as she searched for a path around the snake. But the serpent woke and uncoiled its tail to block her way. Its head rose 10 feet in the air. Its burnished scales gleamed like copper in the dim light. Its glistening yellow eyes stared down at Oronoko as it flicked its forked tongue to taste her fear. She backed away, but there was no place in the cavern the serpent couldn't reach. The only tunnel out was high up on the cave wall. She realized that if she couldn't solve this guardian's challenge, she'd be doomed.

"If you wish to pass, then perception is the key," the snake hissed. "Tell me what is real and what simply cannot be."

The snake slithered to the back of the cavern to reveal three objects that had been hidden by its massive coils: a small tree with green leaves, a large white stone cube with the words "This cube is black" chiseled on it, and a conical stalagmite that rose from the cave floor to a height slightly taller than Oronoko.

She focused on the tree, the cube, and the stalagmite in turn, as the serpent's riddle played over and over in her mind: "Tell me what is real and what simply cannot be."

Orunno's gaze went back to the tree. Its roots dipped into the river that drained from the cavern through cracks in the floor, but they were much too narrow for an escape route. She tapped the luminaria to brighten the light so she could see the tree more clearly. It dawned on her. Light? Without her light source, the cavern would normally be pitch black. A tree cannot grow without light.

She pointed to the tree and said, "The tree is not real." As soon as the echo of her words faded, so did the evergreen illusion. Only the cube and the stalagmite remained.

"Very good," said the serpent.

Orunno's eyes flickered back and forth between the last two objects. Stalagmites were, of course, common to caves, so it could be real. The white cube that proclaimed itself to be black seemed like an obvious fallacy, but it felt too obvious. There was a trick here, but Oronoko struggled to parse it.

"May I touch the object?" she asked the snake.

"Be my guest," it answered, stretching out the word "guest."

Orunnono placed her palms on the cube in the chance the white coloring would rub off to reveal blackness underneath. However, the cube retained its alabaster sheen. She turned her attention to the stalagmite. Her eyes tracked upward from the floor to its tip. Her gaze continued upward to the ceiling. Something was wrong, though she couldn't immediately put her finger on it. She brightened her light and craned her neck as she searched the cave roof. There was no sign of a dripping water source that would have formed the calcified cone, let alone a stalactite pointing downward. Of course, a stalagmite cannot form without a stalactite forming first.

Orunnono pointed to the stalagmite. "This isn't real." The stalagmite crumbled into dust and was washed down the cracks by the river.

"Excellent," the snake hissed. The cube was the only thing that remained. But since the tree and the stalagmite were illusions, did that mean the statement on the cube was true? Orle thought that maybe it was only an assumption on her part that one of the objects had to be real. Maybe they were all illusions.

She puzzled over it for several minutes and thought back to all the puzzles her family had created to train her for this quest. She thought about the science her father taught her, the wisdom her grandmother had shared, and the tricks of light and color her mother used in her art. *Light and color, a white cube that said it was black. This was a puzzle about light and color.* The serpent said that perception was the key. She remembered the science behind perception: she only saw the cube as white because the full color spectrum was being reflected from the cube to her eyes. No color remained with the cube. Therefore, the cube was, in fact, actually black.

She backed away from the cube and faced the serpent. "The cube is real." The cube remained and the serpent bowed its massive head in respect.

"Well done, daughter of sight. You may continue on your quest." The serpent rested its head on the cave floor. "Climb upon me," it said. Oronco suspected this might be another test and hesitated.

"Fear not," said the snake. "I am your way out." She realized what he meant. She gently stepped onto his wide, flat head as he slowly lifted her up to the tunnel high up in the cave wall. Orunno stepped off into the tunnel and turned to the serpent.

"Thank you."

"May your vision be strong," said the snake. Orunnono smiled, bowed, and headed down the tunnel.

The path was straight and smooth and opened onto a wide ledge that overlooked the jungle canopy far below. The sky was full of stars, and the full moon frosted everything in silver. Orunno was transfixed by the beauty of the panorama that stretched to the horizon. She felt that her heart might burst with joy and that if she would only spread her arms, she could fly.

Then Orunno remembered the feather that Balam had gifted to her. She carefully pulled it from her pack and held the quill before her eyes. It gleamed in the moonlight, a symbol of promise and possibilities beyond imagination. Her heart was lifted and her body felt lighter than air. This was her final test, a true leap of faith. She clutched the silvery plume as tight as she could, stretched her arms wide, and sprang from the ledge.

But rather than plummet to her death, she rose into the night sky toward the stars that gleamed like jewels set into the velvet void. Orunno flew higher and higher until she broke through the atmosphere and sped into space. She flew faster and faster through the airless ocean of stars and suddenly realized that it was her spirit that had soared beyond the grip of Earth's gravity while her body remained far below in the land of the living. She felt an indescribable freedom, an unbound and limitless potential within her. She understood with sudden crystal clarity that her place and her purpose was among the stars. She was an explorer and would chart a course through the heavens, guided by the stars like the ancient mariners who crossed the oceans to discover new lands.

A triangle of constellations coalesced in front of her. A spectral gateway to realms unimagined. Orunno passed through the gate and shot across the cosmos faster than the speed of light. Her vision climaxed in an incandescent burst brighter than a thousand suns.

She awoke back on Earth and found herself at the base of the steps that led up to the cave where her journey had begun. She had no memory of how she'd made her way down the monolithic mountain. The thought crossed her mind: maybe she'd never gone up and that the whole journey had happened in a vision. But none of that mattered. She had her vision. She knew her path. She stood and raced homeward through the jungle, eager to share her experience with her family, especially Grandmother Magdalena.

Orunno caught a look of something on her hands as she ran. She stopped and examined them, stunned to find three tattoos on the backs of her hands and both index fingers. On the back of her left hand was a salamander. On the back of the right one was a spider. As she brought her thumbs and fingers together to form a triangle, the snake tattoo crossed from one index finger to the other, half of the serpent on each finger, splitting it in two. Orunno looked more closely at the tattoos. Each had a pattern of dots on its body: a single dot on the salamander, three dots on the spider, and several on the snake. She realized from her father's training that the dots represented constellations. Sirius was the single dot on the salamander. This made sense since that was the star that illuminated her path out of the elemental salamander's lair. The three dots on the spider were Orion's belt. That constellation was symbolized by a spider in many ancient South American cultures rather than by a hunter as in the northern hemisphere. Finally, the string of dots along the serpent's body had to be the constellation Draco, the dragon, which after all is a giant serpent.

Orunnino had been marked by the three elementals so that her vision and her destiny would never be forgotten. She walked through the jungle, her heart calm and filled with a sense of purpose. She didn't know where her journey among the stars would take her, but she knew her life would never be the same.

There you go. Did you enjoy that?

Thank you. So that'll be in the third book. So you have to get through the second one coming out in the new year before you even get to that. The story is a story within the story that serves a different purpose which you will find out when you get to the third book. So there are clues within clues within clues within it.

So thank you. If we are ready, I'll let Bashar come through.

***

### Bashar's Commentary: The Shamanistic Journey

All right, I'll say good day to you this day of your time. How are you all? All right. All right. Thank you.

Orununno's quests. You have been told this story this night of your time because this is a representation of a shamanistic journey. And by following many of the principles, by anchoring to the earth, by opening to its secrets, by expressing yourself more as nature rather than simply being within nature, you all become your own version of the idea of a shaman, able to ground yourself firmly to Gaia, the Earth, and yet then simultaneously be capable of reaching to the stars, the heights, other realities, other dimensions, other beings, other consciousnesses.

Also, this story, coming from what you call your future, shows you the kinds of things you can experience now but will experience on the future Earth, when the elementals are revealed to you through the increase of the vibration of your senses, when the hybrids have landed upon your world and begin to blend with your society. But the story is told to you now as a seed that will grow within you, not only to allow you to take that vibration into your hearts, into your minds, and into your spirits, and allow it to grow for future generations, but also for yourselves to begin your own shamanistic journey within, to open your senses to the things that are around you all the time that are simply invisible now, which may be revealed to you as you heighten your senses, refine your senses, and allow your senses to be better receivers of higher frequency vibrations and energies and information.

Thus, tonight begins a different journey. A journey that you can walk through the coming years on a path that is stable and true and well illuminated by your own inner light to see you through all of the things that shall be coming in the days and years ahead, as the splitting prism continues to bifurcate the different parallel realities that you are capable of experiencing on your world. A world of many worlds, overlapping or side by side, divided by clear glass walls through which you may for a time see other realities, including those you may not prefer, but which cannot affect you because they cannot reach you through the glass wall.

This splitting prism will continue to create more and more and more probable reality options and opportunities for each and every one of you. So again, this story is given to you this night of your time to act as a guide, to act as a rudder, to help you navigate through that splitting prism, through the eye of the storm that we will discuss tomorrow of your time, and allow you to walk true, aligned with the compass needle of your signature frequency so that you may always know what direction in which to head, unerring to your magnetic north that draws you from the future self.

Because now, as we have said, you're going to be far more informed by your own future selves than by your past selves. You are tipping the scale, crossing the threshold where there is more magnetism, more energy coming from your future selves than from the past. The past self is now letting you go, giving you permission to lock into that magnetic wave that urges you forward into more of your own future self.

This story of the shamanistic path is given to you so that you will recognize through synchronicity the guardians on the path that will help you. And though there may be tests and challenges, fear them not. For this story gives you the insight to walk the path as Oruronokco did, as Oruronoko will, to allow yourself to walk side by side with your future self, until you step into its footprints and become that which you have for so long considered to be beyond you, which now can be with you, which you now can be, which you now can own within your own being.

Walking on that path, in those footsteps, on that quest, fear not the unknown. Fear not the dark caves ahead. For from the unknown you shall discover nothing but more of yourself. And from the unknown, no matter what comes out of it, it will also bring with it all the tools you need to handle it, to work with it, to transform it into more and more knowledge of yourself, more and more awareness of your being, of your spirit, of your truth.

Orunnino's quest is the seed which will guide you. So walk the path with firm resolve. You can bring with you the wisdom of the past, the wisdom of the ancestors as Oruronoo did, but use it facing forward, not looking back. For as your year of 2020 comes upon you, from within your own language, it is not only, as we have said, the 2020 vision of looking forward, but the 2020 hindsight of understanding everything you have been, to bring with you in great clarity, to be able to walk with clarity into your future self.

Orunno's quest is your quest, to discover yourself, your true self, your whole self. Enjoy the journey.

We thank you for allowing this story to be shared with you this night of your time. Remember it as you fall asleep tonight in the cozy warmth of your beds. Let it wrap you in the blanket of its arms and walk into the dream world with Oruronokco. You will find great wonder and mystery therein, and great beauty within yourself.

So in return for the gift you have given us in allowing us to share this with you, I ask you now, in what way may we be of service to you? Please begin with your dialogues, your questions if you wish.

***

### First Q&A: Venezuela, Shamans, and Beliefs

Hello, Bashar. And to you, good day. Thank you again for having a conversation with me.

It is our passion and our pleasure. Synchronicity, friend.

I just want to share with all of you and with your friends. I am from Venezuela. Yes. And I went to the rainforest many years ago through the Orinoco River and I've been studying shamanistic journeys for the last two weeks. How synchronous of you? Very exciting.

Two weeks ago I had my first guided shamanistic journey. I was set with the rain and had conversations with the rain. Yes. And I took notes from them. "Conversations with the Rain." Good title for your book.

Wow. Okay. Thank you. Yes. How do you know I wanted to write a book?

Oh, I don't know. Just a lucky guess, I suppose.

It stands out in your energy to us through symbology.

Okay. This is awesome. Yes. I just want to share that from the things that I wrote from the conversations, the rain said to me, "Remember when you journeyed through the river, through the Orinoco River into the rainforest. Yes. And after that I saw the jaguar face looking at me. Yes. And I said hi. And he said hi. And I thought to myself, 'I think he's a nature spirit from the rainforest in my country.' And then I don't know, I just left it like that. Yes. So this was just an incredible gift to me. Yes. So I just want to share that. Thank you for sharing.

So also, Bashar, thank you so much for quoting *The Matrix* yesterday. "There is no spoon." Yes. My favorite movie. My favorite line said by my favorite extraterrestrial. Oh, thank you. So, yeah, I'm very spoiled this weekend. Not fresh, but spoiled.

Freshly spoiled. Oh, all right. Freshly spoiled. Freshly spoiled. Thank you for the oxymoron.

I have three quick questions. One is, yesterday you talked a lot about beliefs. My only question is, are beliefs self-aware?

No.

Or... Not in the way that you're talking. Then how do they...?

That's the way they're designed. They're designed to perpetuate themselves. If they weren't designed that way, you couldn't have a physical reality experience. They have to be designed in a way that reinforces the idea that physical reality is real, that what you're experiencing is a fact. Because physical reality is just a projection of consciousness. So if the belief system didn't reinforce itself that way, if it wasn't designed to do that, you couldn't have a physical reality experience as solidly as you do; you would see right through it as an illusion.

Okay. Do you or the hybrids or the Yael, do they have belief systems?

In a sense? But the idea again is that remember we have divested ourselves of the choice of negative belief experiences and only choose the positive ones, which also reinforce reality.

So they act similarly to the intelligence of the cells of the body? It's closer to that idea.

Yes. Okay. I just wanted to understand how they can use fear to... you know, prevent themselves from being... Well, those are the tools that are designed within them.

But not the positive ones, just the negative ones? The positive ones they don't need. The idea of fear, they will get your attention more often than not through simple synchronicity.

Perfect. Thank you. Now, you can use fear in a positive way.

Of course. But it is, by definition, a negative mechanism, but you can use it in a positive way. And that's the whole point. You use it to find out what the negative beliefs are you're holding on to that are generating the fear. That's a positive thing to do with a negative mechanism.

Okay.

And my second question was about I recently got your transmission of the nine levels of consciousness. Yes. Trying to understand the structure of reality is one of my favorite things to do. Oh, all right. Me too. How synchronistic. It's very exciting.

I had my notes from it. When you explain how the oversoul splits into souls or spirits and then down, I was wondering in this scheme you have higher mind, template level reality, collective consciousness, individual themes, and then the physical construct like the unconscious mind, subconscious mind, and conscious mind. Yes. But the subconscious and unconscious minds are actually higher than the conscious mind even though you think of them as lower.

I got that from your explanation. I was just wondering where the dream world dimension that you were talking about last night, the lower astral realm, fits within the scheme.

More around the idea of where the higher mind is. Okay. And is the higher mind part of physical reality?

No. You have a non-physical higher mind that is the portion of you that remains in spirit, while the portion of you that believes it's in physical reality is experienced through the physical mind. But most of you is still non-physical.

I loved when you said that the projection is like you're projecting something into a wall, but the projection is like a 3D experience and that is life. Yes. So it's like, and also the reflective mirror is the higher mind.

The reflective mirror is one of the tools of passion that reveals to you anything within your physical mind that is a belief system that might be out of alignment with the vibration of the higher mind.

Okay.

And your third question?

My third question was like, why do I wake up every night at 3:00 a.m.?

Well, that's a long story. It has to do with extraterrestrial contact and interdimensional contact. Generally speaking, though it's not always so. Between 3:00 a.m. and 4:00 a.m., let's just put it in the old-fashioned terminology, the veil between the dimensions is very thin at that time. And it's easy for beings to cross from one reality to another.

Perfect. All right. Thank you so much. I love you.

Our unconditional love to you as well.

***

### Second Q&A: Visual Migraines, Spreading Yourself Thin, and Family

Hello, Bashar. And you. Good day. This is very exciting. I've been waiting years to talk to you and ask you questions.

You have? Yeah. A long time.

So I was wondering if you can shed some light on the idea of visual migraines.

We do not discuss health issues. However, yes, clearly it is the idea on some level of resistance to the natural self, since all pain is the result of resistance to the flow of larger energies, higher frequency energies. So, is there resistance within you to be your true self?

Well, there must be. So I'm thinking... Well, you don't have to cave so quickly. But I think I know what it is.

And what is it then?

I might be spreading myself too thin.

Meaning that you feel like there's not enough time to do everything you need to do. I also have multiple businesses to be able to support myself as well as do what I really want to do.

I beg your pardon. Do what you want to do. What I need to do.

When you do what you need to do, the amount of things you do will probably reduce to a manageable amount instead of the things you want to do that you think you need to do that you may not need to do as much of, or at least not in the way you're doing them. Right? It's about streamlining, simplifying yourself, and trusting the timing and the order in which you need to do things.

You do understand we say that synchronicity is the organizing principle of your life. So when something is presented to you that contains the idea of passion, more excitement than anything else, that is synchronicity saying this is the thing to do now. And when that passion wanes, the next thing that has more excitement than any other option, no matter what it is, is the thing to do next. If you keep doing that in that order as synchronicity brings you circumstances, situations, opportunities that contain more excitement than any other choice, and you just keep following that, whatever you don't have time to do at the end of the day doesn't need to be done. It is literally organizing your life in the timing of when you need to do things and when you don't.

So if you are willing to actually follow the way the instruction manual works, the way that the structure of existence actually works, everything will start to fit in perfect timing. You will see exactly what you do and don't need to do. And you'll start also doing things perhaps in a way that is more in alignment with your excitement rather than doing them in a way that you've been taught to think you have to do them, that may have nothing at all to do with the way you would best do them.

So say, for example, I have this first business. I don't like it. I don't want to do it, but I do it because it provides me really healthy finances.

Again, the idea is, in some sense, what you just said is that your excitement can't support you as well. Not right now. I didn't believe... Exactly. That's a belief. Now again, we always say you have to honor your belief system. If you don't believe that your excitement, your passion, can support you as well or even better, then by all means hold on to what you believe you need for support in your reality. But I am telling you that if you at least take the time to act on your passion as often as you can, you can then give it an opportunity to prove to you it can support you. But what has to go along with that is a relaxation of what you are defining as support, because you may be limiting yourself in the way you think support is supposed to look. And by doing that, you may actually be preventing other forms of support that exist from coming in to support you when it is actually more appropriate for those other forms to come in. By insisting that there's only one way you can be supported in physical reality through one particular symbol such as finances, you are actually closing the doors through which other forms of support and abundance could be coming to you that might actually be a path of lesser resistance for you. But if you insist it has to look a certain way, then there's that resistance. There's that stranglehold on the energy conduits in your body. And boy, does that cause headaches.

Yeah, it does.

So, how would I go about letting go of that definition that finances...?

Well, follow the definition of abundance that we suggest to you if you wish. Our definition of abundance is... Oh, are you paying attention? Yes. Are you sure? Of course.

The ability to do what you need to do when you need to do it. Period. One more time. The ability to do what you need to do when you need to do it. Period. We understand that on your planet, money is one symbol of abundance, but it's not the only one. Being given a gift is a symbol of abundance. Having something to trade is a symbol of abundance. Synchronicity is a form of abundance bringing you what you need exactly when you need it. Imagination is a form of abundance because it opens in your mind other ideas, other pathways, other avenues you may not have considered and on which you may not necessarily need to do the things you thought you needed to do because this is a new way of doing something that may not require the way you used to do things. So there are many forms of abundance.

When you relax your definition about how abundance is supposed to come to you in whatever form, then you allow all the forms to work together. Maybe sometimes, in certain circumstances, maybe you need a little bit of money, but if that's all that comes, that should be your first clue that the entire support system may not actually be best in the form of money. So if you say, "All right, well, that part came," you're open to the rest of it. Now maybe a little bit of synchronicity comes in. Now maybe someone comes along and gives you something for free. Now maybe you suddenly realize you have something you can trade with someone else. And your imagination opens up. And suddenly you realize it's about letting whatever proportion or percentage of each of those things come in and work together to form the 100% support that you need in that particular situation. But you have to let them come in in order to find out what proportion of each of them is actually required. So without that relaxation of the definitions, you're actually shutting the doors through which other forms can come by saying this is the only form that will work, this is the only form that I recognize, nothing else can possibly allow me to feel as supported or as abundant. That's the belief system. But that's just what the negative belief wants you to believe, so you won't let it go. That's how it perpetuates itself.

But if you at least take some action on the things that are truly representative of your passion often enough, if you at least give yourself that opportunity, that chance as often as you can, your passion will show you through synchronicity that it can actually support you. Maybe even better than you're being supported. Now, as hard as that might be for some of you to believe, it can do that. Are you following?

Yeah. I love that idea. I've actually started it way back in like 2011, 2012.

And what stopped you?

Well, it goes in hand with my next question, which is I've followed the formula as best as I can and I guess not. I do my best.

I understand. But you can do better. I know you can. But the challenge I find is that it's really difficult sometimes to stay in a positive state.

Do you understand that that's a belief and not a fact?

Yes, I do. See, this is how you start breaking it down. When you hear those things come out of your mouth, when those thoughts move through your head, stop yourself and say, "Wait a minute. Wait a minute. What I just said is not a fact. It's just a belief. It's just a perspective. It's just an opinion. And those things can be changed." Another definition that would work with more alignment for you is the idea that there is no such thing as an inherently difficult situation. No such thing. Only the belief makes it feel or seem or appear difficult. Then you have something to work with. But when those things come out of your mouth, when those thoughts go through your head, you have to stop and pay attention and realize that you're programming yourself with a story that doesn't work for you right there. And in that moment, it's not about moving on. It's about staying with that realization, working with it, discovering that belief, and going into that belief to the degree to the point where you get it to make no sense. That's what you haven't done. You're not getting it to the point where the belief makes no sense. Once it makes no sense, you drop it. You never hold on to anything that you truly see makes no sense. If you're holding on to it, as nonsensical as it may seem, that means you have a belief that is somehow making it appear to make sense to hold on to something that doesn't work for you. You have to find that belief. And when you really see it in the light of your consciousness and the light of day, you will see that it's just a construct of cold. And by analyzing it to some degree and seeing that it makes no sense, then you de-link those experiences and can move forward because now it no longer makes sense to do anything other than that. So is this making sense?

Yeah. So to get out of that business, you're suggesting that I break down the belief and I use synchronicity.

Synchronicity. Synchronicity or synchronosity if you prefer that definition. And what we're suggesting is that you act on your passion as best as you can, continue to do that idea. But yes, you have to find out what the beliefs are that are holding you back from believing that your passion can support you. Sure, I can do that.

What happens if you're in an environment where... let's say I have a big family and they totally reinforce all those negative beliefs and it gets really...

No, no, no, they don't. You do, because you think you have to agree with them.

But if I don't... So what? Whose life is it?

Thank you.

But it gets really negative and nasty.

So what? What has that got to do with you? Do you understand that when it gets negative and nasty, what you're seeing are their issues of fear?

Totally.

Then why should it affect you? If you understand it has nothing to do with you and has everything to do with them, can't you put yourself in a state of compassion for them and see that they are struggling with their own issues that they are afraid to face? Yes, of course. Well, then if you can do that, there's no effect on you.

But they come after me still.

So what? Are they locking you in a room and preventing you from leaving?

No.

Then leave. If they are not vibrationally compatible with you. Well, that's what I was planning not to go for Christmas.

Then don't.

And would that do some serious damage?

To whom?

My relationship with my family.

Who knows? But you understand this truth. If you are not yourself, they're not in a relationship with you and you're not in a relationship with them anyway.

Yeah, I know. It's been like that for a while.

Well, then the only thing you can do, no matter how much they may protest because they have their own ideas of what you should be and who you should be and what that should look like, the most loving thing you can do is actually show them who you really are, whether they like it or not. But again, if you find that they are vibrationally incompatible with what you prefer in your life, then find a different family to celebrate with.

Yeah, that's what I'm doing.

Well, then there you go. Problem solved.

And one last question. Do we need 7 hours of sleep to remain healthy?

Not necessarily. Depends on your true biological rhythm.

Any idea on how to set that rhythm or reset it?

Start to relax a little bit. Don't be so tense. Slow down to speed up. And then you will find your natural rhythm. You will be tired when you need to be tired. When you're excited about being tired, you will rest. When you are excited about being active, you will wake and do things. And it may be very different times of the day that this happens. You don't have to go by what society says is the time you should be asleep and the time you should be awake. Start to become more naturally you rather than becoming so normal.

Okay. Thank you very much.

You will find your own rhythm. Yes. Then happy holy days to you. Thank you, Bashar.

***

### Third Q&A: Soulmates, Heartbreak, and Self-Value

Hello, Bashar. And you, good day. Thank you for being here today.

Our passion and our pleasure.

I want to ask kind of a personal question.

Well, of course, because you're a person. I am a person.

So can you tell me a little bit more about soulmates and marriage? The last two relationships I had were really bad breakups for me.

Oh, exciting. What did you learn? Did you learn how to recognize more quickly that which is more vibrationally compatible to what you prefer? Then they have served your purpose, and you may thank them for that.

But why does it hurt so bad?

Because you're not using it in the most positive way because you are thinking it has something to do with devaluing you.

Yes. Well, stop. That's exactly it.

Well, you're worthy.

So I just feel like every time I'm in this relationship, I'm just asleep, and then all of a sudden it's like I get hit by a bus and then my heart's broken.

Well, you have the glue to put it back together.

I do.

What is the idea? The glue looks like energy and the idea that you are worthy. And no victimization of yourself. Is that what I'm doing?

Yes.

Okay. So, if you are willing and able to learn from the experiences, then you can move forward in a positive way because you recognize that the reason you attracted them was to learn these lessons and bring out of yourself the negative perspective you've been holding of yourself, so that you no longer will succumb to the lure of those who are willing to reinforce your belief in your own victimhood.

I didn't know that's what I was doing. I thought we were having a good time.

You can have a good time. I thought it was like... as you say, there's the bus. There's the truck that comes along to get on and go somewhere else on it. And then I wake up and I'm like, wait, what?

Yes, yes, yes. That's fine. But this is what the idea is: to learn from it and go, "All right, okay. The next time I attract myself into some relationship, I am not going to bring any assumptions or insistences into that relationship about what I think it should be. I'm just going to let it be what it is and see what it is. I'm not going to impose any kind of structure upon it because I really, in truth, have no clue why I attracted this relationship right now. So I'm just going to let it be what it is. And by letting it be what it is and not imposing a particular societal structure on what you think it should be, then you will have your eyes open. You'll be able to see what's happening much more quickly, and you'll be able to respond much more quickly in the way that actually works for you instead of sticking with something longer than you should because it has nothing to do with what you prefer.

So I have these preconceived notions about what a relationship looks like: we're supposed to go to this and we're supposed to do that... and that's why in our society we don't have that. We let the relationship be what it is. And we may not even know what it is until it changes. So just showing up without any preconceived notions, coming from nothing.

The purpose of all relationships, no matter what their form: each person in the relationship is there to be a reflection to the other person or people in the relationship in order for each of you to discover more of who you are, and do that for the others as well. That's it. That's the whole purpose of reflective relationship, no matter what form it takes. You help each other become more of who you are. When that stops being something that happens in the relationship, that's your first clue that you need to move on to get another relationship of some sort so you can keep growing, keep learning, and keep helping others learn to grow as well.

Because, and here's the real secret, even if it appeared that the other person changed in some way and allowed them to become more vibrationally compatible with you so that you could stay in the relationship, you're not in a relationship with the same person anyway. Literally not the same person. I don't care how they look on the surface. If someone changes, they're not the same person because "person" is an artificial construct. So even if it still looks like the same body, it's not. So what difference does it make if they don't look the same? If it's another person, because it's another person anyway, right? So the sooner you recognize what does and doesn't work anymore in the relationship, the sooner you will go, "All right, I am absolutely appreciative, absolutely grateful for what I have learned in this relationship, what I have learned about myself. What I've been able to give to you as a gift to help you learn about yourself. But what I give you is none of my business whether you take it or not. But I have taken from you what I needed. So thank you so very much. I am now moving ahead. And if you wish to come with me, then make your choice to be with me by being someone that is more vibrationally compatible with what I now prefer. Otherwise, go on your path to find what works for you. I love you unconditionally enough to let you go do that. And I love myself unconditionally enough so that I can go do that. I value myself enough.

Exactly.

So the next... and you value them by showing them who you actually are, who they're actually in a relationship with. Otherwise, you're playing false.

I didn't know that I was not valuing myself before when I went into the other ones. Is that what I was doing?

But that's what you're learning. So now you understand that you can value yourself. And when you value yourself and make the decision that something should change from that state of being, it won't be painful. It won't be painful. No, of course. How can it be painful if you're in a state of valuing yourself? That's completely contradictory. I'm not giving away my power either. Of course. So that's me valuing myself and not trying to change myself to fit into what I think I should look like or act like in a relationship.

If you're not yourself, you're not in a relationship with them anyway. You're just who they think you should be. So you're lying to them and yourself. When you then show them who you are, you're giving them an opportunity, the best opportunity of all, to decide whether or not they want to change, to be more compatible with you. Otherwise, you're just again being false to them, and you're not in a relationship with them, not the real you. And if we don't decide to change together, it has no impact on my value at all. Why should it? It shouldn't.

Then it doesn't. I get to decide, right? It's not like we're just not in the flow. Nice to meet you. Bye.

Kind of. You will meet again somewhere, somehow. These are all things being played out by agreement. It may be members of your soul family. It may be someone else entirely. But the attraction is there for a reason: helping you grow, helping you to understand who you are. So again, you will meet somewhere, somehow again in some way in a very different circumstance and situation, whether it's physical or not is beside the point.

It seems though like sex is very intimate, and when you do that, sometimes it's like you don't want to part from that person. You want to hang out.

Social convention in your mind. It's made up. I want to go to dinner after we do that. That's made up. There are things that may be representative of things that you do prefer, but you have to know the difference in yourself whether you are choosing something from true excitement or whether you are choosing it from anxiety. And if you're just honest with yourself, you'll know the difference.

Okay, thank you for that.

***

### Fourth Q&A: Business Expansion, Hiring, and Scarcity Mindset

I have one other question, please. So I have my own business which is my highest passion. What is it? So I help companies with branding and marketing. I like to find their visual look, feel, tagline... This is part of your passion expression. Yes. It's like my thing. So lately I feel like it's been really, really good. All right. Really, really good. My clients are incredible. Is there a "but" coming up here?

Well, I want to know how I can leverage the company to help more people because I feel like there's these great waves of expansion and then contraction.

Expansion and contraction is a natural ebb and flow and that could be fine. Is there something in your imagination that you would rather be doing differently than the way you're doing it?

I don't think so.

Are you sure?

Why do you assume that there must be something else you can do? Why would you be asking that question if you didn't have something in your mind?

Well, I guess that's good. I mean, you're infinite intelligence, so you probably know better than me.

I am not infinite. You're not? No. I know what I know and I need to know it.

So I guess maybe there is. That's the question. Should I be doing something different? So my business is... not a "should." Is there something that you feel passionate about doing differently than what you're doing in the way you're doing it now? The smallest change even can be representative of an entire change. So is there some way you would rather be doing what you're doing in a slightly different way?

Yeah, probably.

What's that?

Hire more people.

All right. Can you do that?

Yeah. But does that feel like it expands your passion? Does it fill you more with lightness and relief?

It makes me nervous.

Why does it make you nervous?

Because I manage the design and it might get too big where I can't control the quality.

So you believe you would attract something you can't handle. Maybe then let go of that belief because it doesn't make sense in the idea of you being in a state that represents your passion. Those kinds of things can't happen in that state. If those kinds of things happen and you suddenly feel you can't handle it, it's not because it's happening within your passion. It's because you've left the vibrational state of your passion that those things happen. But if it's coming from your true state of passion, it can't come in a form that isn't handleable. It doesn't make sense. Does that make sense? I think so. It can't come in a vibrational form that is at odds with the vibrational state you're creating it in. Right? You cannot experience what you're not the vibration of. This is just physics. So if you're truly in your state of passion and you want to attract the idea of hiring more people, then the synchronicity from that state will allow it to unfold in a way that works for you. Otherwise, what would be the point? Because it's all for fun.

Thank you. Does that make sense? So is that the thing that I'm looking for? Hiring more people that just kind of fell into... You're the one that said it.

Well, can't you read my mind? No. There's no such thing as reading someone else's mind. You can be on the same wavelength as someone else and have the same thoughts at the same time, but all you're doing then is reading your own mind. So, no.

Okay. So if that's what fell into your head, fell in. Then sit with it for a moment. Feel it out. You can do that. And if something else falls into your head, as you said, feel it out. Does it make you feel more relief? Does it make you feel lighter? Does it make you feel more expanded in your passion or not? And like you said, if you suddenly get nervous, then stay with that and find out the belief that's making you nervous, and then realize that those beliefs don't make sense if you understand what we just said about how you can't experience something you're not the vibration of.

So like a scarcity mindset would be: I'm going to hire more designers and more developers and then what if the clients don't keep coming and then I have to pay these people and then it's like blah blah blah. Find those beliefs and let them go.

I've been learning how to do that. All right. Well, very good.

And just a follow-up to the business thing here. The other thing I partnered up with this other guy. We have the same business coach and we've been selling these SEO programs to clients and it's been really great because I go in and I manage it and I work with these guys in Dubai and it's like so much fun.

So yes, why do I need to know that? Because I'm sharing my joy with you because this brings so much joy. Thank you. It's exciting.

Then stay in your joy with every aspect of it, and then the resolutions to challenges will come. Because this SEO part, these things are exciting. That's enough.

Gracias.

***

### Fifth Q&A: Northern Lights, a Bison Bone, Horses, and Night Fears

Hello, Bashar. And you, good day. I have questions from the north to start with.

Questions from the north. Humans have a scientific explanation of what northern lights are. Yes. Is there anything else to them besides what we know of them scientifically?

Well, obviously there are aspects of them that exist in more dimensional reality levels than just the physical, but what you understand them to be as a physical expression is relatively accurate.

Okay. My next question is I'm having a house built and I had a field excavated for geothermal heating. Yes. And 15 feet below the Earth's surface, we found a prehistoric bison bone. Oh, all right. How exciting for you. It was a piece of a femur. And we'd like to know why that bone was broken, how it happened.

An accident. A natural accident.

So, are there any more pieces of that bison there?

Yes. Although it may be a little bit far afield because a great deal of water carried a lot of the remains to different places. So it may be scattered over a wide distance.

Thank you. In this build of my house, what could I do to raise its vibration before I move in or while I'm in the house?

Well, as a permission slip, if you wish to construct it along the idea of certain kinds of phi ratios that resonate with natural frequencies of the Earth, then that might be one way you could magnify or amplify the frequencies within the house.

And what about the water supply? There's concern about the quality of the water.

You do have filtration systems on your planet, do you not? We do. Well, then use them.

Is there anything else I can do to support the quality of the water?

Stay in a positive state so that you become another filter.

I have horses and I spend a good deal of my time helping horses feel more comfortable. Is there anything you could suggest I do to support what I do for these other species?

Well, what do you believe is missing?

The only thing that might be missing is something I don't know about, but you know about.

Don't be clever with me, girl. Use your horse sense and figure it out. Is there some way you would rather be doing what you're doing to help them that you're not doing?

I would like it to take less time.

All right. Do you understand what we say about synchronicity? And usually if you find a way to do what you're doing that is more in alignment with your true passion, doing it in different ways, then that usually will reduce the time factor because then it becomes simply an issue of timing and not time so much. So what else would you rather be doing, or what other way would you rather be doing it?

I'd like to be able to communicate with them more clearly.

And in what way do you believe you're communicating with them now?

By touch and by thought.

And what do you imagine would allow you to communicate with them more clearly? What have you imagined?

To have more of a dialogue.

Yes, I understand what you're describing. What have you imagined would allow you to do that?

To be more sensitive. Intuitively.

So by following your passion, you know that that raises your frequency. And by raising your frequency, you know that makes you a more sensitive receiver for other forms of communication. Well, so how can I raise my frequency? By following your passion to the best you can with no insistence or assumption as to the outcome, and remaining in a positive state no matter what happens because you know it's happening for a reason that can serve you. Are you following that formula to the letter?

Yes.

Are you sure?

Yes.

Then why are you asking these questions of us? Okay, then I'll move on to the next one. Thank you.

I had a lot of night fears when I was very young, especially at night sleeping. And is there an explanation for that?

There is. You have encounters with other kinds of beings that you didn't know what to do with and so you felt out of control, but you did this by agreement. Again, just open up to the idea that more conscious awareness of these encounters can be given to you so that you can experience these exchanges on your own terms.

And is that something that only happened during childhood or is it ongoing?

It's ongoing, but not necessarily as often as it used to be.

So again, a lot of things can be resolved for you during the dream time if you will open up to it and not be afraid.

I have a question about my relationship that I'm in right now. I'm wondering if a mutual experience with other alien species for both of us has created this attraction to each other.

There is some of that, but that's not all it is. But we can't go into greater detail because you're in mid-process.

And my last question is, I'd like to get a tattoo. Do you have any recommendations?

A horse.

Okay. Thank you. Just comes to mind for some reason.

Thank you. You're welcome. That's all I have.

***

### Sixth Q&A: Balam Connection, Joshua Tree Portal, and DNA

Hello, Bashar. And to you, good day. I have like four ideas to speak with you.

All right. Speak up and be clear so that all may hear you clearly.

But before I go into that, I would like to refer to something that I experienced during the story that Darryl read. I experienced a very strong energy, like tears came to me when Balam showed up. I wonder why.

Well, you have a connection to that vibration, that understanding, that culture, those spirit levels. And that reminded me of a hypnosis that I had a year ago or something like that. And I was a dragon and I was hanging out with some blue beings.

Why don't you go and look up? I did.

I think it was related to my kundalini.

Go and look up the term "alebrije" and see what you get. Can you spell that for me? A L E B R I J E. Alebrije, thank you. Go look it up and see what you get. It might start you on another journey.

Thank you so much. So the first subject I want to discuss with you is regarding the Joshua Tree. I heard about the portal just a day before and I knew I had to be there. Were you there? I took my son and a friend, and I would have gone by myself if they wouldn't have come. I didn't expect anything, although I did expect to feel something because I know I'm not ready to even see them.

You didn't have to bring that much baggage with you. I'm trying to be honest with myself. So I went there in the middle of the night. Nothing happened. Something happened because I rented a house right by the park. And during the night, around 3:00, 4:00 a.m. (oh, there's that time again), I had an experience between sleep and awake. I woke up but not fully. So it was an energy trying to enter my body.

Not really. That's no such thing exists. Nothing can enter your body. Your body is a projection of your spirit. There's no empty place in it for anything but you. But you can have that effect. You can experience it as if it's happening that way. I'm simply telling you that regardless of how it feels, mechanically, that's not what's happening. You're simply altering your frequency to match something else.

Probably that. That's how my mind works. Not probably that. That's how it works. For sure.

Well, I didn't allow the energy to blend with me. And I had before, two days before, I had an experience similar at the same time, and I think that was trying to train me for this. And I allowed the energy to... I blended with it. And I sensed my kundalini rising, and I tried to raise them to my heart. I opened my heart and I loved them even when they became monstrous. And they took forms like scary forms, and I found myself saying, "I see you," and I felt like I opened my heart with love and compassion. And I saw through their pain and suffering, and they dissolved.

Well, this night, an entity started a conversation with me telepathically, and they told me, "Unless you love us that way, you cannot see us." And I understood that. I knew that I wasn't ready. And they showed me beliefs one after another, and I have to say, "Yes, you're right. I have this belief." I recognized that's why. And very compassionate, they went very deep until, like when I was a baby, they showed me a scarf that I probably created a belief from. So I allowed them to work on me and remove those beliefs. And it was them.

I'm asking you, it was related to the portal. That experience that I had, you could call it a portal. My question is, I was starting to fall back into... but then I looked at them and they were removing something from my head. They were working like removing some texture, like a metallic structure that was rigid.

That's just a symbolic projection of a belief. Exactly. And I asked them, "What are you doing?" And they said, "We're removing thoughts." And I said, "I thought that thoughts cannot live in my head, or thoughts can be anywhere."

But remember, you don't really have a head; that's just an illusion. It was an illusion. It was a symbolic representation. So they were working on helping me remove those old belief systems and thoughts.

How exciting. It's very exciting. So that was my experience. Thank you for sharing.

If I may, I have three other subjects that I would like to present. Why don't you choose a number? One, two, or three. Is this a game show? It is. What's behind door number one? Well, usually we go for three. So what's behind door number three? I just said three. Let me remember... okay.

So number three, I'm going to start with a question that is hopefully to lead me to what I wanted to discuss with you. I never asked you about my lineage. So can you tell me what is my lineage?

No. It's not appropriate for us. Someone else will give you that information.

So I was hoping that when you tell people what their lineage is, does it mean... are you talking about connections to other civilizations? That's not a lineage. That's an energetic connection. You don't come from anywhere else but Earth.

I understand. I perfectly understand. Then the word "lineage" is misleading because lineage usually refers to the idea of your genetic lineage on Earth. That's what I thought. And I thought that when you were answering to people their lineage, it meant that they have in their DNA that lineage from those.

No, that doesn't necessarily mean you have DNA from those civilizations. It means you have energetic connections. Sometimes there may be a genetic connection, but very often it's simply an energetic connection.

Oh, okay. So what I want to talk with you about is the DNA. It's my understanding, I don't know if I'm wrong or right, so you correct me if I'm wrong. I will. I know that dormant DNA is now being activated on Earth. It's being activated. Markers are opening up that have been dormant for a while. And that will bring up in people new abilities.

But the expansion of consciousness is what opens them. So it's really the expansion of consciousness that brings the new abilities. The genetic markers are just a response to that level of consciousness. So it's not that they're causing it. They're a response to the new level of energy.

I got it. And can this be connected with our ascension process? Basically, activation of our DNA is basically our ascension process. It's part of the ascension process. Yes.

Now, our DNA was worked with... we have DNA from other civilizations. Now, how does this DNA affect the essence of who we are? What remains after we leave this body?

Well, the genetic material doesn't affect you when you are no longer physical. Is that what you're asking? Yeah, that's what I'm asking. No, it doesn't affect you when you're no longer physical. It is only for the purpose of the physical journey that it works. Now, there are other levels of energy that you might call, very loosely, the idea of spiritual DNA, but it's not the same thing at all as your physical DNA. The physical DNA may be a representation of higher energies in crystallized physical form. So there are definitely representations of that idea in spirit, but it's not the genetic material of the physical reality that affects the spirit. It's the spiritual DNA that affects the spirit, if I can use that term, but that's a very loose term. Don't think of it in terms of physicality.

That's a lot of relief. Thank you. It's more of an energy vibrational frequency. I got it. Thank you.

So I'm done with that subject.

What's behind door number one and two will have to remain a mystery for now.

Shiva, Bashar.

And to you, good day. Now, let's get something a little clear about the word in our ancient language, because I noticed that sometimes, and it's all right for you to use it this way, but "Shiva" doesn't really have that meaning. It's not really a greeting. It's actually more of a statement of energy in terms of something that you are focused on. "Hatu" is the normal greeting in our ancient language. Or, if you wish, the idea of "Ova" because that's the reflection between us, is also a greeting in our ancient language. "Ali'ova," brilliant. But "Shivi" is more of the idea of "I'm on a particular quest. I'm on a particular path. Look out, I'm coming through."

Adventurous. Yes.

If I may, I'd like to share and report back some experiences from our Joshua Tree camping trip. We camped with a small group of people and watched the sky all night. Many of us had individual experiences and saw lights streaking and flashing.

Do you have anything from your side of...?

Again, it was for the purpose of allowing us and others to make certain observations of everyone's energy in terms of their desire to be there, their willingness to be there, the vibrational states that you were all in. It wasn't really so much about what you saw. It was more about what we saw in you.

Seems fitting.

And now moving forward, are there other steps we will be taking?

Yes, that was the first. There will be others along this path that will allow us to gauge where you're at and take readings of a sort to see how close you are to the idea of open contact. So there will be several steps on this journey. So we will suggest other places and times for such things to happen where we can take new readings and you can have different experiences that show us that you're opening up to certain ideas.

And will you have any in the forthcoming year of 2020?

Absolutely. Awesome. Because that is the eye of the storm.

How exciting. Yes, it is.

My curiosity has been very much focused on the subject you've brought through to us as Alan. Yes. The ancient Atlantean civilization. Its name for itself was Alan. The etymology of the word "Alan" is highly debated but generally boils down to two meanings: "the place of whiteness" and "the place of herons." Might you have any perspectives or information as to the significance of those?

Well, it was common to use a certain kind of white stone in the construction of many of the temples. So "the place of whiteness." There were certain kinds of birds like herons that also frequented the area in times past, but that's a very specific reference not so much to the actual bird as it is to the idea of the priesthood in Atlantis.

Is that connected with the ibis? Yes, in Egypt. And also connected with the idea of certain Egyptian gods which were representations in many cases of the ancient Anunnaki extraterrestrials, such as Set.

And what is the cultural connection between Alan, the American Indian cultures, and Egypt?

Well, as the American Indians moved across North, Central, and South America and populated those particular continents, Atlantis became one of the colonies. So, you see, the architecture of Atlantis, even though many of your legends depicted it as more Grecian style architecture, was not. It was more Aztec in appearance in terms of the cyclopean blocks and so on. The idea is that it was an American Indian colony, and it ventured out into the ocean and created other excursions into Europe and Northern Africa. Eventually, after the destruction, having many Atlantean priesthood hierarchy and mainstream individuals coming into those particular cultures and creating certain understandings of technology and agriculture and mathematics and so forth to preserve the knowledge that had been lost in the destruction of the Atlantean capital.

And as you've shared, the crystal skulls were integral in that process.

Some of them, yes. The master skull still lies at the bottom of the ocean in the Bahamas where the main capital of Atlantis used to be.

And what is the significance of the mound cultures of the American Indians and their connection?

They are, to some degree, also an offshoot, preserving knowledge in the earthworks so that that knowledge would be preserved, knowing that at some point, hint, now, that knowledge would be rediscovered.

On that note, you've mentioned that the effigy of the Serpent Mound in Ohio may contain a crystal skull within its vicinity.

I said there is a crystal skull somewhere around there. The secret of where it is lies in the Serpent Mound. So if you can decode it, you'll find it.

Is that something physically buried...?

If... yes, yes, yes.

And you may remember in transmissions past... Oh, thank you for allowing me to remember. Yes. Were you giving me permission? "You may remember." Yes, I was. But we spoke about the idea of sunflower plastic. Yes. And its ability to absorb radiation. So go and experiment. I've assembled all the materials and then keep experimenting. I can't give you much more than that at this point. I have to see how far you get before we can give you more.

And lastly, if we may, is Willa available to speak about the story you've just shared?

Not tonight. But soon. In your next year, she will come through, commenting not only on the idea of the shamanistic journey, but many other things to help continue you on the path of going from cryptic to nocturnal to shape shifter to sage to wraith. But only with the energy that is coming from the eye of the storm will the vibration be accelerated enough for that transmission to occur.

Sounds fun.

And I just remembered, when I briefly asked you about a group of artifacts before, you had mentioned that they were restricted to an area and you asked me if I understood and I said yes, but I don't think I understood.

Too bad.

I'll figure it out along the way.

Yes, you will. Thank you very much. Thank you.

***

### Seventh Q&A: Twin Flame Transition, The Illusion of Reality, and Precursors

Hi, Bashar. Hi. I'm so excited to see you.

As are we always to see all of you.

My name is Jenny. Oh, all right. If you insist. And my life has been so crazy from the beginning. Crazy is good or can be. Yeah, I guess so.

So I know, so, right? And I just recently been through a lot and realized I'm actually an indigo child. I've been through a major relationship and then when I asked this moon to ask for a new life, all of a sudden that relationship ended chaotically with no understanding what happened. But then I found my twin flame when I asked for him, and he showed up 5 years ago, and we had the exact life that I wanted to have. But out of the blue, he died of a sudden cardiac arrest on February 20th.

Which means you're still having that life because now he is leading you to a higher plane. Because now that the connection has been formed, when you think of him, it pulls your consciousness toward the spirit level so that you may upgrade your vibration. That's the gift he is giving you.

Thank you. That's exactly what he told me. Well, there you go. Because I felt his spirit go inside me and he told me, "Jenny, this is part of the process and I will be back in a new body."

Yes. But remember, he didn't actually go inside you. Doesn't work that way. You matched the vibrational frequency and took on those qualities so that you would understand you were in communion with one another. And again, "being back in another body" in a sense you can have that experience, but that's a space-time illusion because there's no such thing as reincarnation since everything and everyone exists at the same time. But you can create that experience as if...

I'm just describing the difference between an experience and the actual underlying mechanism creating the experience.

That's what I want to ask you, because you mentioned something very interesting to me yesterday. You said that the spirit is actually outside and the spirit actually encompasses the body.

So it's different. What I'm saying is the body is a product of the spirit. The spirit doesn't exist by going into the body. The body is coming out of the spirit. Your body is your spirit in physical form.

So how does that work? What do you mean exactly?

It works very well. Thank you. Because you mentioned it's a projection. You are naturally non-physical. You are simply consciousness. You simply exist. So everything that is a depiction or a representation or a reflection of your consciousness is a projection happening within the consciousness, including physical reality. It's not actually out there. There is no "out there." There actually really isn't even an "in here." Everything exists in this dimensionless point in this timeless now. But I know your language can be confusing. Within that there are patterns of vibrational reflections that create different kinds of experiences within the consciousness, some of which seem to be projected outside of you. But that's all happening in your consciousness. Is this making sense?

Yes.

In the same way, perhaps as an analogy we have often used: if you are standing in the middle surrounded by a hall of mirrors that goes on and on and on at different angles, you see all of the different angles of your reflections. You know that you're not really over there in any of those reflections. You know that you are here in the middle. But you also understand that the reflections can show you different things about yourself, different angles give you different perspectives, different thoughts about yourself. But you're not moving from the middle. You're just looking at all the reflections. It's similar to that idea going on within your consciousness. And physical reality and your body is just one of those reflections.

Wow. Does that make sense? Yes. You are a multifaceted, multi-dimensional being of consciousness.

Great. Yes. Because I just did quantum healing from Dolores Cannon, and that's an interesting permission slip. And when you mentioned that, I saw a kaleidoscope of mirrors and it was a matter of me choosing which facet I wanted to see myself in.

Exactly. Because they all exist at the same time, and you get to choose how you focus.

Now, yes. I understand what you're saying. Sometimes, going through this upgrading... I've been on this journey since 2013. Sometimes I feel like, is this an illusion?

And yes, and it's real. Let's draw from another movie that exists in your reality. Are you familiar with what you call the Harry Potter series? Yes. Have you seen them all? Some of them. Did you see the one that ended the series? No, I didn't see the last one. All right. Well, I'm going to give you a little spoiler if I may. There is a moment when the hero is having an out-of-body experience in the spirit plane in which his mentor, the wizard, already exists. And the hero asks the mentor, "Is this real or is it all just happening in my head?" And the wizard says, "Well, of course it's happening in your head, Harry, but why should that mean it's not real?"

The illusion is real. Reality is an illusion. It's one and the same. You don't have to make a difference between the two. That's what reality is: an illusionary projection of your consciousness. But that's reality. The only thing that is, as you would say, just to use your words, "the real reality" is simply that you exist. That's it. It's no more complicated than that. Everything else is a projection. Everything else is an illusion. Everything else is a reflection of the fact that you exist. And it just depends on what you focus on that allows you to have certain kinds of experiences so that you know yourself in as many ways as you can. That's what all that is.

Yes. And thank you for that. But that takes me to my next question. I'm on this ascension journey and I think part of it is I need to help more people, but I see a lot of people not changing or not wanting to change.

The idea is not that they change. The idea is that you do what you can to share with them how they might choose to change. That's all you can do. What they do with the information you give them is none of your business, because you don't know their path. You don't know what they need to experience. But you're giving them at least the option to choose something that might work for them more easily. That's all we're doing with you. We're sharing information with you. It's up to you as to whether to apply it or not. It has nothing to do with our lives. We do this whether you choose to believe us or not, whether you choose to apply the information or not, because this is our passion. What you do with this information is none of our business because it's your life, not ours. So same for you. Share, give the choice, give the option, give the opportunity. That's all you can do. Everything else is none of your business. Got it?

Now I have this experience a couple of years ago in Macau. I suddenly, in a crowd of everyone, connected with this guy that I really believe is alien.

You're all extraterrestrial hybrids of some sort. Some will exhibit that connection a little bit more than others. Do you mean you feel he actually came from off your planet, or simply that his energy was more boldly forward about the connections he may have to extraterrestrial societies? It sometimes can be one or the other because there are on your planet sometimes what we call the precursors. Usually you don't notice them. But when you do, that's a signal to us you're getting closer to the ability to have open contact. But many of them do walk among you to see if you notice them.

So that was exactly what happened. It was an Asian guy with a weird gait. The white lady with a weird gait I've never seen before. And a child with the same weird gait that looked hybrid. And everybody did not see them except me, because I asked my husband and my dad to see and they couldn't. And the whole time he was looking at me out of the whole crowd. And we were just watching each other walk away.

Then you saw a precursor family. Congratulations. Thank you. I just wanted to confirm that because I've never seen anything in my life like that.

Well, you'll see more of it now.

I think I'm ready.

And then one last thing. It's interesting when I'm sitting out here watching you, I see yellow lights come out of these things, but when I look straight on, it's a different color. Why is that?

Because it's happening in a different dimension. That's kind of what I feel like. Well, there you go. That's very weird and interesting. I think so.

So one last question. What is death like?

Death is simply waking up into more of who you remember yourself to truly be. That's all. In the same way that you might have a very realistic dream at night that seems so real, but then you wake up in the morning in your bed and you go, "Oh, well, even though that seemed very real, this is really me." When you die, it's kind of like that. That physical life seems so real, but "this is really me." I'm waking up from a physical level. Because you're already there. You're just waking up from this dream. You never leave spirit. Remember? Yes. You're there right now. You are all there right now. We are all there right now. We are just dreaming in various ways that we're not for various purposes. You just wake up and you're already there.

Thank you so much.

Thank you.

***

### Eighth Q&A: Marijuana and Dreams, Jesus and Melchizedek, and the Cryptic Path

Hello, my friend. Good day. And to you, good day. I have some exciting questions. I thought I was done asking you questions for the rest of my life, but I have many here.

Well, it's up to you. You could be done asking us and answer them yourself.

I'm not. Why do people not remember their dreams when they smoke more marijuana?

Do I really need to answer that? I'm really confused why people don't recollect their dreams when they smoke marijuana.

Because they're putting themselves into a very specific altered state that in and of itself is a very particular kind of dream. Therefore, no other dreams can enter.

Ah, I see. Okay. Very interesting. So when you're in the template level reality, it touches into it, but it's not purely the template level reality.

No.

So in a way, can the substance marijuana be used to help the cultivation of the dream state?

To some degree, in specific ways, but it's not exactly designed to do that. That's more of an ayahuasca experience.

Gotcha. Because people will start going on the path of development and doing the internal work, but I see people in meditation practice, energetic arts, and then they smoke weed and I can see it kind of halt processes or revert processes.

It can. Because again, remember there are different things that happen with the different teachers. They're designed to do things in a different way. The idea of the teacher that you're referring to as marijuana is more of a lubrication effect to sort of get you ready for something else. It doesn't necessarily go that far unto itself. It is more of a preparatory vibrational energy for something else, for other teachers. But again, remember as always, it's to get you to understand how to create that state for yourself so that you're not constantly relying on the teacher, which if you continue to do past the point where you can create the state yourself, you're then using the teacher as a crutch and it can become an addiction, whether physical or psychological or emotional. So the idea is to learn the lessons, understand the state, and then advance and graduate from that state.

It's part of the... you know you've said that a lot of people on this planet think we're adults but we're not, because a lot of people still have pacifiers. Many slips are pacifiers. But that's all right. We're maturing. So you'll get there. But that gets to the integration of the point where you guys are at where it's all integrated. All experiences are contained within. So in a sense, with your collective consciousness of your planet, you can feel any substance or spirit that's been transmitted through those plant substances and get more from it than actually doing it in a physical way, because that would be the longer path. Because we're going to the pure essence of it vibrationally.

Awesome. Because remember, what exists in physical reality in a sense exists first on a higher non-physical plane as a template. So we just go to the template.

Awesome. And as far as that is concerned, did the Atlanteans smoke marijuana?

Yes. I thought so. Did they have rollerblades?

No.

I didn't think so either.

And can you tell me about what it means in the Bible when Jesus became ordered into the priesthood of Melchizedek?

That didn't happen exactly as many people think.

So since it didn't happen the way many people think, we're not sure exactly how to respond to your question. Well, it is said that Jesus would spin on it right now, but forever written in the Book of... the priesthood of Melchizedek.

The idea of that is simply the recognition that there are certain teachers, masters that reflect the idea of All That Is coming through them more than what is typical for many humans, especially at that time. Therefore, it creates a certain mark, a certain vibration, a certain imprint on the reality. And that imprint is recorded in this thing that you know is talked about in ancient Egypt as being written in the Book of Life by Thoth. This is very different than what many of you think. It's happening on a very different dimensional level in a very different way. When it's said that it's "written" into the book, it's not exactly the idea of writing. It's something very different. We'll have to go into that in more depth another time because it requires an understanding of interdimensional physics. And we'll have to set the stage for that and the foundation for that so you will understand what is actually being said.

Understood. So we'll do that another time. I'm excited for that.

I've recently moved to LA. I spent a solid year plus in the redwoods, doing a lot of the cryptic training, it really calls. And now I'm living in LA. And I've been having dreams about the redwoods that they're calling me, that we're still friends.

Oh, yeah. Well, what I'm saying is asking about integrating that into the LA experience. I feel that through my own astral experience, my own initiations, that even people within this realm, in those states I become so foreign to everyone because of those things I've experienced.

Absolutely. Going the path of the cryptic and beyond makes you, in some sense, very foreign. That goes with the territory. Being a shaman in that sense is not what you would consider to be a typical life. So it's going to contain a lot of what most people would consider to be foreign elements. But if they're true for you, they're true for you. And so, that's the main theme we're going here on planet Earth: being able to transition these parallel realities where I could go out into the forest and fast for days and get super weird that people wouldn't understand.

Do you have a costume that goes with that? It has "SW" on it. Super weird.

But to transition into these realities and only give people what they might know... that kind of feels like a mysterious thing.

Mystery is the spice of life. And as far as mystery being the spice of life and the journey of the fairy tales and being one on the shamanic journey and everyone having those seeds within them to unfurl, that is also because I see this as Maslow's hierarchy of needs, because people might really expand to the tip top and start going with that, but then they might look at their bank account and realize something's not integrated.

Then there is some belief system work to do, but also they must drop the expectation and insistence that it must look that way. Because remember, it's not about whether the outside changes that tells you you've changed. It's about whether you respond differently to the outside, even if it still looks the same, that tells you you've changed.

Got it. So there's those things in my own consciousness when I'm out in the forest at those levels where I feel that it's okay to abandon society, but I don't, and I come back and I pay my car bills and everything. That's fine.

But remember that even the Zen Buddhists tell you that some of the most spiritual things you can do is chop wood and carry water, because you are having a physical experience and therefore there is nothing unspiritual about the typical things that you choose to do to honor the idea of your physical experience in the reality you chose to be in. Just do them spiritually.

Shop spiritually. I love that. Shop like a Zen master. Shop like a shaman. Pay your bills like a shaman. Whatever it is that you create synchronistically that works for you, if it is representative of your true passion, do it like a shaman.

Beautiful. I love that. Don't squeeze the shaman.

Ah, don't squeeze. I love that. That's beautiful.

And last question. I so love your society. Once upon a time, you talked about ascension is nothing more than raising your frequency, becoming more of your true self. But then you also talked about the idea of spiritual ascension within the spiritual plane. Could you talk about just a continuation of that idea?

That's what I thought, because the raising of vibration never ends. Never ends. Because it never began. The raising of your vibration never ends because it never began. Not really. Even though you have the experience taking place in what seems to be time. Remember, time is a creation within existence. So yes, you can create the idea that it began and that it might have a cycle and it might have an ending or it might go on to some other level, but that's all taking place within existence simultaneously. You're just experiencing it as an unfolding in linear terms. So it's just a continuation of the raising of your frequency.

Beautiful. And as far as... oh, I did. You caught me again. Thank you, my friend. Please fly away. Super weird.

I wish I was as witty as you.

I am absolutely weirder than any of you can imagine. So I am hyper weird.

***

### Ninth Q&A: Adopting a Kitten, Shapeshifting, and Cat Energy

Hi, Bashar. And are you good day? Okay. I wanted to ask... I'm synchronistically adopting a kitten who will be living with me at the end of this month.

How exciting that you bring a being in that can see another dimension. That will enhance your own senses and also provide a healing environment for you.

I was going to ask you also what our stellar connections are with each other, me and the kitten.

Well, it's a multitude of things. Sirius is prominent in it, and that's as far as we'll go with that for the moment until you do more exploring with the kitten itself.

Are there any suggestions as far as a permission slip or something with her?

That's it. That's it. Are you sure? Are you sure? I think so. Think again. Take a moment. Why has the kitten entered your life at this time? Why now? That's a good question. Thank you. Do you have a good answer? No. Sure you do. What's the attraction now? Do you want me to make this question easier? Sure. Why a kitten and not some other animal? What's the affinity? I feel very connected to felines. Why? Lyran connections a little, but that's not the major reason. Why a cat? I feel like a cat sometimes. Do you? Yeah. A lot, actually. I see. And what do you do when you feel like a cat? Cat stuff. Like everything from crawling and stretching and pawing. It gets weird. And when you're in that state, no matter how weird it may seem, do different kinds of thoughts come to you? Like they're not really thoughts. It's more like I am a cat. And being a cat allows you to perceive multi-dimensionally.

Is that a question? No. Is it an experience? Yeah. And so the cat helps amplify that for you. Reflect that for you. And by allowing yourself to go that fully into the vibration, does that not allow you to have clearer communication with a cat by being a cat? Is the idea of shapeshifting into different animal energies not part of the shamanistic experience? That makes sense. That's kind of how I... That's why I said it. Is that helping move this along a little bit more? Very much. Then play with that.

Thank you. Thank you. Love you. And you as well.

***

### Tenth Q&A: The In-Between State, Ghosts, and Being a Crossing Guide

Hello, Bashar. And you. Good day. Thank you. I just wanted to talk a little bit more about dreams. What is the place in between being awake and being in a dream state? I find myself there.

The in-between. Literally the in-between. There is between one dimensional realm and another dimension. You might think of it as the framework between the dimensions that separates them. But the separation is itself a dimension, the in-between. It's where certain kinds of beings inhabit, some of which can be represented in different ways in different cultures, such as in the native culture of Cacas.

Oh, okay. So it is literally crossing through a dimension to get to another one. The web that holds them together is its own dimension.

I find that I have some supernatural type of experiences in that state. It's all natural, but we understand. How do you know what is a dream and what is an etheric type of experience? How can you differentiate between the two?

Well, you don't really have to. All you really need to focus on is what do you get out of it? What are you learning from that experience and how can you apply it in your life as an energy state or as an action? Doesn't really matter where it comes from because they all come from the single source of All That Is to begin with anyway. So the idea really doesn't necessarily have to be differentiated that much. Or if there is a purpose for that differentiation, that information will come with the experience. But for the most part, it's more about applying what you get out of having that experience, no matter where it comes from.

Because I have I dream... I guess we dream all the time, but I remember my dreams often and they're very vivid and colorful and realistic. When I come out of these dreams, for instance, yesterday you mentioned sometimes when you're coming from a ship, you might have a feeling of dissension. That spoke to a dream that I had, a feeling I was on a ship and I was being lowered. But how do you know if that's not just something that's supposed to be symbolic of something else that's going on in your life or is that an experience that you might be having?

It might be either. But again, the point is what are you getting out of having had the experience itself? What are you learning about that particular arrangement of symbols? Because even if it is representative of something in your language that happened, it's still an arrangement of symbols in your mind to represent it. So when you feel through it, when you study how it made you feel, what state it put you in, what thoughts come from that state, it might even just be sufficient to open up a mystery. What happened? What really happened? It stretches you. It makes you seek. So it might only be for that purpose. So you don't necessarily have to read more into it than that. But if more information is forthcoming, it will come.

I tend to have a lot of... You're not missing anything. I didn't know if I was missing anything. I just want to know how to apply it more to my waking life.

That's how... look for the mystery. All the answers lie in the mystery, in the unknown.

And I also have had quite a few experiences with what we would call ghosts here in our lower astral. Does that have something to do with my dreaming the way that I dream? That I attract these kinds of experiences?

Well, it's not that necessarily you attract them. It's that you're attracted to them. Because you might be practicing helping people cross over who might be confused about where they are when they die.

Well, I actually my grandmother came through in that weird space in between awake and sleep. She had passed several months ago. And I had a vision of her walking across the hallway and I heard her speak my name and it was really powerful because I just miss her so much and hearing her voice. And it was audible. We understand. So you might be practicing... I know you have on your planet crossing guards, but you might be becoming a crossing guide.

You know what, when I was younger too, my grandfather came to see me after he passed as well.

So you see, you have the ability to perceive these things, which means generally you probably have the ability to help them because you can perceive them. So you might be able to begin that on this side as well as continue it on the other side when you decide to cross. All right. So I'll explore that a little bit more then. By all means. Well, thank you very much. You're welcome. Thank you.

***

### Eleventh Q&A: 13 Individuals, Black Holes, and Humans on Other Planets

Hey, Bashar. And you. Good day. Thank you again for being here. This is always such an honor and a privilege.

And for us as well with you.

You had mentioned in a prior transmission that there are 13 individuals on this planet who share a similar vibratory level as your society.

Close.

So I was recently initiated into the Amara tradition. And I'm wondering if any of the Amara masters are among those 13.

None of you know any of them yet.

Will we?

Yes. But not yet.

Is that it? I had another question about black holes. Is a black hole a physical representation of another universe? It might be a gateway to one.

So you had mentioned a race of beings that were very technologically advanced that could go to the surface of a black hole. It's not even the idea of technology as you understand it. It's just their nature that they can extract all the information of the universe from the event horizon of a black hole, because the event horizon captures all the information around it interdimensionally. So they have the ability because of their interdimensional nature to actually extract information from black holes. And that just basically gives them all the information of the universe. It gives them what they need. Because they themselves are kind of involved or connected to what we described a moment ago as the in-between. They're another type of being that inhabits the in-between, which is why they're not physiologically affected by the idea of black holes in any negative way.

Is our universe a black hole? Are we living within a black hole of a type?

That would be misleading to actually say that the answer is yes. Will that do? Okay.

One or two other questions. Are there humans on other planets? You mean Earth humans? Or people from Earth human lineage that have gone off planet? Yes.

Do they come back?

Some.

My last question is a third question. Then my friend Patty asked me to ask a question on her behalf. She's wondering why she gets insights for so many other people but she has no insight as to her own future.

Because she doesn't need it. All she has to do is keep living and she'll see exactly what it turns out to be.

Perfect. Thank you. Thank you.

***

### Twelfth Q&A: Precognitive Dreams and the Wisdom of the Unknown

I had a dream about this story up until the cave part with Balam last night. And had no idea what the story was about until Daryl read it. And was given my own message by two people that I had to go to my test. Why did I have this dream?

Because you are connected to the hybrids of the future. Because it is familiar to you. More of this dream will open within you as you move forward in life. Thank you.

And then this person flew to Joshua Tree and was under the stars for 3 hours chanting, breathing, and dancing. From 11:55 to 12:25, time stood still. And that 30 minutes lasted 5 minutes. Please share my higher self's perspective of this.

The physical mind was more aligned with the higher mind, thus experiencing less of the creation of time. Paradoxically, within less of the creation of time, you can perceive more things simultaneously.

What does it mean when you dream something that comes true in real life?

It may mean a few different things. It may mean that you've arranged this in the template reality for manifestation in physical reality, and the arrangement in the template reality comes through as the memory of a dream. It may be that you are sensing the vibrational energy behind certain events that are building up within the collective consciousness that have so much momentum behind them they are unlikely to change, and therefore you're becoming aware of the fact that it will manifest because the inertia is unchangeable and unmovable. The probability is so high it simply will not divert. It could be for those two reasons or some others.

So would you say that when a person has potent, sometimes precognitive experiences like that and other times it doesn't turn out to be true, that it's always true, but the revelation of the realization may change the energy and push it in a different direction?

Remember, there's no such thing as a prediction of the future. It's not, in a sense, really precognition. You are sensing the energy that exists at the moment the prediction is made. And if that energy has a great deal of momentum, a great deal of inertia behind it, it is unlikely to change and will come to pass. However, most so-called predictions, the sensing of the energy that exists at the moment, are not necessarily infused with that much potential. Therefore, by revealing your sensing of the energy as it exists at the moment the prediction is made, others hearing that prediction may go, "Thank you for revealing what the energy is now. I do or don't prefer it to remain that way for myself." Therefore, the revelation of the prediction can actually render the prediction obsolete by other people changing the energy, now that they've been made aware of what the energy at present is.

And so, the next step with that is, since we now have a much deeper and richer understanding of what a precognitive dream is, what is the wisest approach whenever you're having a dream that perhaps shows a lot of energy and you come away from the dream feeling like, "Oh, is this really going to happen?"

Well, you'll find out, won't you? So what's the correct attitude in how to... Well, it depends upon the information you brought back with you. But the correct state of being is always a positive one so that you will always get the benefit from whatever manifests, no matter what it is. So you just assume that you don't know for sure what's going to happen, and just take the idea that this was here for a positive reason. And maybe that idea of when you wake up in the morning if you have some powerful dream, to allow yourself to be with the dream. You can always decide for yourself if there's some particular action that you feel you need to take based on the information that you learned from the dream experience. There may be actions that drive you to move forward and do things that you're passionate about sharing or passionate about doing. But nevertheless, it still requires that you remain in the state you prefer in order to receive the true benefit from it and be more efficient about it. And synchronicity will show you what to do.

Anything else? Yes. Does this one universe have space cops and the equivalent of jails? Is there a galactic court and the concept of crime amongst members of the interstellar alliance?

Not amongst members of the interstellar alliance. No. There are other civilizations that have some similar patterns that you experience on Earth that may experience such things in their own way. But it doesn't usually stretch out among the stars because it takes a certain state of being to become intergalactically mature enough to actually join an alliance like ours. So it becomes senseless at a certain point when you realize the magnitude of even your own single universe and the plenty that exists within it that you can access for all. So remember that the idea of those struggles and battles and wars and crimes usually stem from a sense of lack. But when you come out into the universe, the abundance that's available to you is clear. And therefore, you never receive once you're out here any kind of a sense of lack, only a sense of connection, only a sense of abundance.

It's so interesting. So many of our movies are focused on this idea of conflict in space, and that's just because we're still in that predatory state.

Now, such things can exist within a solar system because that's still your backyard, that's still your territory. And there have, in the ancient Orion days of suppression and oppression among certain kinds of star systems, allowed it to stretch to a few different neighboring stars. But it doesn't really go much further than that. That's actually relatively rare, and the Orion systems issue is relatively unique.

Well, that's one less thing to worry about.

Yes, most of those things remain, relatively speaking, in their own backyard, whether it's a single solar system or two or three. But it doesn't really stretch that far because it can't. Because the vibration required to hold things together is positive, not negative. Negative energy breaks things apart. So even though a few civilizations we're aware of throughout the idea of history have perhaps expanded negatively (so to speak, oxymoron) to other neighboring systems and attempted to hold on to what they would consider to be a star empire, it breaks apart relatively quickly. There's no cohesion to it. There's always something that will tip the scales.

Can you define signature frequency? I understand each and every being has its own. And does the signature frequency only pertain to one special lifetime?

Yes. Yes. You have different levels of the signature frequency. However, so there can be a specific signature frequency for a specific physical lifetime, a specific signature frequency for the higher mind of that being, for the soul of that being, for the oversoul of that being, for the All That Is of that being. Each difference is by definition a slightly different variation of the signature frequency, but it is still unique to the overall reflection of that being no matter what level they are on. It's not like any other being on the same level.

So do you have the same signature frequency for the different lifetimes, so to speak?

No, it's going to be slightly different. Although the higher signature frequencies may be the same, but there will always be some difference because you're making a difference, right? So the soul level would might have the same signature frequency from one life to another life. Again, remember these things are simultaneous. So we're describing an effect here, not a causal mechanism. But nevertheless, the definition of a different life requires an additional frequency that defines that life as opposed to this life. Even though the soul frequency may be relatively the same, and the oversoul would have its own signature frequency.

So in a way, is a signature frequency like an equation of all the beliefs that are held within a certain... well, when you're talking about the physical reality, then yes, you're talking about beliefs. But the beliefs don't exist in the same way on other levels. Beliefs are what compose the physical mind. On the higher levels, you have different ways of cognition, different ways of understanding, different ways of knowing. They don't really come down to the idea of belief, but on something different. So on this level, you could think of it as equations. It's still equations on every level. It still can be an energy equation. It's just that the variables in the physical version are a little bit different than the variables in the spirit version and oversoul version and so on.

So following that train of thought, on this level, yes, you could almost make equations out of the different beliefs. And if you change a belief, then your overall frequency changes, and so does the equation variable. So the signature frequency though is actually a stable equation, but aspects of it can change. But it's still you. The equation that never changes is you. Your perspective of what you consider yourself to be on any level, that's you having the experience that is solid, that doesn't change. I see, because that's part of the five laws: You exist. You exist. Remember that when we talk about the first law, it's not just "you exist." It's "you exist." That can't change. You can change the way you perceive you, but you is perceiving it. That version of you never changes.

Does that help? It does.

***

### Guided Meditation: The Holotope as the Cave Entrance

We would now suggest that you take a short break. We will resume this transmission with your holotope meditation to help crystallize the shamanistic journey that you have begun this night. Take a short break.

All right, let us continue the transmission by asking each and every one of you to become very relaxed in your chairs. Let go of the cares of the day. Just continue to breathe gently and easily as your music rises and your lights begin to play. Focus on the holotope before you.

Continue to breathe gently and easily. And with every breath, allow yourself to see that holotope as the portal, the entrance of a cave for your own vision quest, so that your mind may enter that system of tunnels, of caves, grottos, lagoons, pathways that will take you deeper and deeper into yourself, so that you may walk the path, the vision quest path, as Orinino did and will do.

So that you may, as you journey deeper into yourself, come upon, as she did, those guardians, those elementals, those nature spirits, those symbols of whatever beings are there for you to aid and assist you and guide you on your way. And though some of them may seem challenging and sometimes even scary at first, they are all there to show you the way into more and more of yourself.

So relax into yourself and allow yourself the freedom of intuition to see the path laid out before you. Though it be winding or straight, it is the path that is you. And allow yourself to carry with you your own inner light. Just as Orinino carried the luminaria globe, whose light can dim or brighten as needed to light your way and to show, to reveal, to illuminate the things you need to see, the challenges you bring to yourself, the tests that synchronicity may hold for you, and finding yourself capable and worthy of facing and meeting those challenges because they are all only coming from within you, from within some aspect of your being.

They never truly come from foreign shores. For even if other beings may be in some way involved, only you can create the representations, reflections, simulations, and simulacrums that represent them in your reality, made out of your consciousness, your energy, your versions of them, your representations, your symbols of those challenges, of those guardians, of those beings. It is only made out of your own energy. That's the only thing you can encounter. For you are your own universe. You are your own reality. And everything that you encounter comes from it, from you. Everything is your version of something. It takes nothing away from the autonomy of other beings who may choose to interact with you. But the only thing you actually experience is your version of them that you have created out of your consciousness.

So be at ease with the different aspects of yourself that may reveal themselves to you on this path, on this journey. For though there may truly be guardians, what you see are only the guardians you have fashioned from your own energy, from your own needs, in whatever way will actually work to help you, to serve you, to let go and discover more of yourself, more of your knowledge, more of your brilliance, more of your insight, more of your intuition, more of your worthiness, the worthiness of your existence without which All That Is cannot be All That Is. You are necessary. You are needed.

So this journey is yours. This journey is your expression of All That Is in this way experiencing itself as you. The indestructible, eternal, infinite you that shall never cease to be. Though it may change form as shape shifters do, it will always be you.

From your perspective, walk the path, the journey that Oruronokco has invited you upon this day, to journey with her, with her heart, with her mind, with her spirit, with her strength, with her commitment, with her leap of faith. Walk the path within yourself that leads to more of you. That will allow you to express more of your abilities, your senses, extending them beyond where you have extended them before, so that the invisible may become visible and manifest to you.

Let yourself journey into the deep mysteries of creation. The deep mystery of existence. The deep mystery of All That Is. And let it unfold before you like a flower. Fragrant, beautiful, inviting, growing toward the light.

Walk the path within you. You will discover treasures you had not thought existed within your being. You will see the multi-dimensional facet that you are, the gemstone of intelligence. That is your birthright. To know yourself this deeply, to feel yourself this deeply, to express yourself this deeply. To be yourself this deeply. To know your path and your purpose of being who you truly are. To act on your passion and know that you are guided by synchronicity because it's built into the shamanistic journey. It's automatic and functions in perfect timing and harmony with your soul and your spirit and your longing to discover yourself.

Dig deep within the mysteries of the earth. The mysteries of the sky and the mysteries of the waters and the mysteries of the stars and the mysteries of the trees and the mysteries of the animals and the rocks and the grasses beneath your feet that anchor you to the earth while you stretch your sights to the cosmos and extend your senses beyond time and space. So that you may journey through the portals of creation, through the doorways of dimensions that await you on this path.

The elementals welcome you. Open to them. The night welcomes you. Open to it. Change welcomes you. Let yourself change. Magic welcomes you. Allow yourself to know you are the miracle. Spirit welcomes you. Know that you are spirit right now. The dream welcomes you. Know that you are living a dream. Life welcomes you. Know that you are alive. All That Is welcomes you. Know that you are home.

Float freely now on the currents of creation in the beautiful void that is never empty, that contains all the information, all the knowledge, all the experience that you need to be you. That which comes from the unknown never comes without all the tools you need to face it, to integrate it, and to be what was formerly unknown and now is known as more of you as you expand as the cosmos reflecting to itself an infinite array of other universes, other dimensions of being. This journey is all within you, in this life and beyond. The journey is already within you. Just allow the path to unfold. Just walk it as yourself, and you will discover everything you need along the way.

Along the way. Along the way. Along the way. Along the way. Along the way. Along the way. Along the way. Along the way.

Breathe in life. Exhale the dream. Breathe in light and exhale the dream. Breathe in love and be the dream.

Welcome home. Welcome home. Welcome home.

Our unconditional love to you all. Sweet dreams. Sweet dreams. Sweet dreams.

Allow yourself to continue to breathe as your music and lights fade. Remain in the void. Remain in the unknown. And let it become that which is known to you as you be yourself. Be yourself. There is truly no one else you can actually be. Be yourself. It is beautiful. It is a treasure. It is deserved. It is wondrous. It is a marvel. And it is as magical as anything could ever be.

Be yourself. It's all you need to be.