---
title: "You Always Have Free Will"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1984-06-25
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
---



Synchronicity is when you find various seemingly unconnected groups exploring similar ideas at the same time, similar directions, similar usages of energy, similar applications of thought, similar realities being formed. 

Realize this is due to your own sense of timing upon your planet, your own creation, your own mass creation of your own reality for the entire planet at this time. Now it involves many, many ideas which will begin to form into more and more solid versions of reality within a new collective mass reality upon your planet which has begun to form, is forming, and will continue to form. In a sense, when referring to its formative stage, it shall continue to form for the next approximately ten to fifteen of your years. There will be within this new idea of mass consciousness certain pinnacles, certain plateaus which will represent culminations of specific ideas.

Now you have within this new mass reality formulated along with your sense of change the idea that certain belief structures, certain attitudes, certain mental states will have their physical counterparts. In other words, as you believe, so will you see its effects, the effects of your own beliefs take place within the physical structure of your earth crystal, the entire earth. You as of this moment in your here and now reality have allowed within your new mass consciousness certain ideas of change which will be reflected in the earth: ideas of earthquakes, volcanoes, weather patterns shifting radically, magnetic anomalies, magnetic and electrical fluctuations both within and surrounding the earth crystal. Now, as you have created them at this time, these fluctuations can and will, though not meaning to frighten you, can and will be responsible for much loss of physical life. As you attempt to create for yourselves a new mass reality upon your planet Earth, these changes are the reflections of your own sense of uncertainty, your own feelings of new power, your own exercising of your new sense of self, your own realization of your dream reality. Right along with your best hopes, of course, will come your worst fears. All at this point in time will be in a sense realized now.

Realize that in a sense this is not a future prediction. Allow me to tell you there is no such thing as a future prediction because in all reality there is no such thing as the future. There is also no such thing as the past. All reality is only here and now. Present. Both your past and your future are created from this here and now moment within no time and within no space. Therefore, ideas of predicting the future stem only from your own inner awareness of certain situations which you realize exist here and now. Your estimation of these belief structures as they are and the strength with which you maintain them will directly reflect the so-called accuracy of a future prediction. In other words, should you make a prediction for an individual, group, or mass consciousness, you will be sensing the situations they have created for themselves at that particular here and now time. Realize you always, always, always have free will. Always you can at any moment you wish choose any future or past or present you so desire. When a prediction is made, you are simply reading those desires, those beliefs which exist at the moment the prediction is made. Should the individual involved in the prediction choose to change any or all of the factors perceived by the predictor, then that prediction will not come true. However, should those situations not change, it will seem as if the predictor was looking into the future when the time wave crosses itself in your reality and makes itself visible as the predicted event. Do you follow me?

Are there questions at the moment concerning this idea? I have something I might share that's a half question. I had what I thought was a predictive flash about vandalism on my car and I worked very conscientiously to change what I felt at the moment was a very strong prediction flash in my mind, and sure enough the next day something happened to my car but it was nowhere near what I had seen; it was a very mild incident of a dead battery opposed to terrible vandalism. Is that the kind of thing you're talking about? Thank you. In a sense, yes. Realize it was a very creative way of exercising your own free will upon various probable futures you had chosen for yourself. Realize in a very similar way, one of the last large earthquakes which you experienced within your state of California was directed into an area which did very little damage. Do you follow me? One possibility would have been for it to have occurred within your very own environment, your very own city here. However, you are beginning to realize that such things do not have to be. It is true there is what you may term momentum, a great deal of momentum within what is formed by mass reality, the shared reality of millions and millions of individual consciousnesses. However, you can yet choose to change what you deem your own future. With regard to these earth changes, they need not be so severe. They need not claim vast quantities of physical life. And in any event, each and every one of you, having your own individual universe reality creation of your own sense of reality, can for yourselves individually choose not to experience such a probable future. You can create a reality in which you find yourself at the right place, right time in another location or in the same location but unaffected. Do you follow me? Yes.

Realize now, although it is your choice, your choice always, I will since in a sense you have allowed me to do so, I will ask you all to choose to avoid the idea of destruction upon your planet as necessary for the elevation of your consciousness and your planet's consciousness into what you term your new age of awareness, the achievement of what you term a higher vibratory state of existence. It need not be attained through destructive energies. Realize there are many, many civilizations which are observing, helping, aiding, guiding your own planet Earth. Realize this does not mean you are low on the scale. No. Realize your situation is not hopeless. Far from it. But realize that at this time, all excepting a few of these civilizations are going to accept your idea of your own reality. They are going to allow you to experience what you wish to experience for yourselves as a planet. Realize we will not interfere with your own creations. It is not our responsibility. No, we would never, ever take away your own responsibility for your own creations. No, you are all creators. You are all the creator. If you can become unified in your consciousness, you can make what I'll term a leap, a jump, a push. You can step right over all of those other probable realities. You can achieve your higher vibratory state; if you stop to think about it, you can achieve it in the wink of an eye, in the blink of a moment, in between one second and the next, if you allow, not make, not force, not work at, not try, but allow your belief system to accept that probability as being the most likely, as being the most exciting, as being the most desirable, as being the one you really want.

Now I'll tell you something. We are not gods. We are not super beings. We in a sense are just like you. You are just like us. Should you choose to elevate yourselves without the probable reality of destructive sequencing? I'll tell you this. You will fool a lot of us. You will have played a joke on a lot of us. You will have surprised us all. I know you can do it. I will be the first to cheer you on. But realize we can only aid. We can only in a sense guide. You must take the responsibility and the action to create the reality which you deem most likely to succeed upon your planet's future. Now realize that when I say responsibility, I am speaking of choice, unlimited choice, not blame. Allow me to say, too many of the people upon your planet choose to understand responsibility in terms of blame as opposed to terms of choice, free will, unlimited creative potential. Realize if you see yourselves as completely responsible for your planet, your environment, your reality, your lives both individually and collectively, totally responsible for everything that happens within them, not to them, but by you within them, you will then be able to step back, view your life from a very relaxed state of total acceptance. "I have created all of this within my life. I am completely as a creator responsible for my creations." At that point, you will realize you have more freedom than you ever imagined. Freedom to create any other reality you so choose. Do you follow me? Yes.

Questions. Bashar, is Earth enough a part of your reality and the others like you that are communicating with us that your allowance, we will share some of the allowance with you? Some in a sense, but not beyond the point which will interfere with your mass created decision, with your mass belief structure. Do you follow me? Yes. But does your allowance boost our energy, boost our ability to allow and accept that reality? Do you wish it to? Yes. Then it boosts yours. Great. Do you understand? Yes. Those who do not wish it, it does nothing to. It is a non-interference energy. It is there if you desire it. It is there for you to draw upon. It is our gift, our love to you.

Does the manner in which we go through these changes affect your reality? Only in a sense. Realize we in a sense understand how to very quickly in your terms defocus from one reality to another. Allow me to tell you there are various numerous realities, alternate earths, which have achieved total peace. Do you follow me? Yes. We also experience those alternate earths.

I'd like to ask about this polar shift that has been talked about quite a bit. Would you cover that in your probable futures as well? I've heard it said that the mass consciousness can change many things, but that is one that is on the books to happen anyway. Can you comment on that? Realize nothing is beyond your ability to change. Nothing. First of all, however, it has a great amount of mental momentum behind the idea. You will find that such an occurrence, though, does not have to cause the loss of life you fear it may. If you are completely in tune with such an occurrence, you will be in tune during the change and after the change. You will allow it to carry you through to another reality, another perspective, which is all that other realities are anyway, simply various perspectives, and you will exist within that new reality, having made right along with your planet the transition. Do you follow me? Yes. Would that be a physical reality or all realities in that sense can be termed physical? Even non-physical realities can in a sense be termed physical, and physical realities can in a sense be termed non-physical. Realize this distinction is only an idea. Separations between physical and non-physical realities are only an idea. Separations between consciousness, unconsciousness, subconsciousness, and hyperconsciousness are only ideas. There are no separations. None. Okay, I get that. But physically, can they not be measured as different vibrational rates? Realize that any measurement you make is made within your own system of reality. It will tell you exactly what you believe it will. Do you follow me? Okay. Yes. Thank you.

What does it mean for the earth to vibrate at a higher frequency? No, I don't see a meaning. Did you look for one? Yeah. How hard? I guess not hard enough. No, I think too hard. Relax. Can you not feel around you a sense of energy, a sense of vibration, a sense of tone? Even if it is only mental, even if it is only within your imagination. Realize everything has its own sense of identity, its own sense of integrity. Although not exactly as you mean that term, that integrity is in a sense each individual idea's signature. What separates it from every other idea? What causes the separation? Vibratory tone in a sense has been created as an idea to represent the separateness between various what you term objects and levels of existence. Realize you have created for yourself sensory organs which you term eyes. These eyes only perceive a very minute amount of what you term electromagnetic energy. Do you follow me? Yeah. Realize there are vibratory rates of electromagnetic energy which are above your ability to physically perceive. Do you follow me? Yeah. Then in a very real way the same idea applies to the entire mass consciousness. Realize alternate realities, alternate dimensions, dream realities, future lives, past lives. All that is exists right here, right now. You have created a perspective which allows you to imagine that each of these what you term separate ideas can only exist in the same place at the same time if they occupy different vibratory rates of existence. They coexist overlapping each other, one on top of the other in the very same spot, but they exist to each other as vibratory rates of energy which cannot be physically perceived from each of the levels. Do you follow me? Yes. Therefore, you are now shifting your own here and now idea of planet Earth into what represents for you a more refined state of vibration, a more harmonious state of vibration, closer to what you believe to be a core vibration of the universe, a core vibration of your own creatorship. Do you follow me? Thank you.

Would a film of very high vibration raise the vibrations of planet Earth and the chances of the realities? That would be a very creative idea. Yes. Realize that individuals who seek those ideas out in order that they may reflect back to themselves their own sense of Godhood will enjoy experiencing that form of mirror. Do you follow me? Yes. It is a very creative mirror. Yes. Thank you.

How can we individually move from intellectualizing this idea to believing it to knowing it? Seems each step is more difficult. I can intellectualize it and believe it, but knowing it to make the reality change seems the most difficult step. Allow me to tell you that the idea that each step is more difficult is purely a product of the intellectual side. Those steps as you call them really have not been taken per se. If they appear to be more and more difficult, that difficulty is still an extension of the analytical, intellectualizing frame of your conscious ego. Realize when you function very naturally in your dream states, you are beyond all that intellectualizing without so much as a blink, without so much as a step. You are simply there. You have simply accepted the idea of a new reality. Realize that what you term physical reality is really only a dream, and in very many ways is actually more of a dream than the dream reality. For in your dream reality, you may allow yourself to completely realize your creatorship, your godhood or goddesshood. You may allow yourself to dream while awake. It will be all right. It will not make you strange. It will not make you bizarre. It will not make you the butt of jokes. It will make you real. Will you follow me? Yes. Thank you.

When you sense something negative is about to happen, sometimes I have just vague feelings that something's going to happen, but I don't see enough that I can create a counter reality. Can you offer a suggestion how to work with that feeling and a knowing that something might be happening and use that to change my reality? First of all, thank you. First of all, realize that every such flash is simply an opportunity to allow yourself to realize that you can choose between alternate probable futures. Now if they do not come strong, "Oh, I am not getting a strong enough negative flash. What can I do about that?" Well, it seems to me you are doing just fine. Do you wish me to aid you to have very strong negative probable futures? No, thank you.

How do these get going? By agreement. Do you understand that? By non-verbal, what you term telepathic agreement. The sharing of belief structures, the sharing of a belief of a need to experience certain types of realities in order to further explore your own god, to further create ways in which all that is may view itself as a creator. Do you follow me? All these experiences are quite transitory in their ultimate sense. Life, death, life. No barriers, no separations. Do you follow me? Yeah. Realize you do not always have to understand the mechanism of an apparatus in order for you to allow the idea to change. Do you follow? You may simply have within your imagination a view or an emotion of an idea, a picture of a reality you think is beautiful, would be lovely, would be exciting, would be just grand. Your own enthusiasm, your own love for that reality will be the best thing you can do towards allowing others around you without forcing to alter their own momentum. Do you understand? Not very well.

Allow me to ask you a question. May I? What do you imagine you would like to see changed? What would I like to see changed? I would like to see the antagonism man seems to have for man in his warring changed on this planet. I mean, we have quite a lot of people increasing awareness who don't want this sort of thing to continue. They want more peace. I'd like to see this changed faster. Now, thank you. Allow me to say, has it changed for you? Things have changed for me. However, I would like to nevertheless look at that and say if I get my data about what's happening in Lebanon, for instance, from the TV, I'm not over there looking at it so I don't know if it's changed or not. If the TV news changes then I know things are better in that part of the world. Have you considered not turning your TV on? Why? What do you expect to see each time you put it on? I expect to get into communication to some degree with another portion of the planet that I'm not physically present at. Do you realize that you are in communication with that portion of the planet right now? Yes. Do you realize that if you stop the idea of war within you, you will transmit that idea to that portion of the planet? That's good. So it would be one of me. One of us. How many of you do you wish to create for this job? Do you need more than one of mass reality? That is the combined realities of the few billion people on this planet. Does that concern you? It doesn't concern me. It interests me because it's part of this discussion. And it did not interest you before this discussion began? Yes it did. Does it concern you? Do you feel responsible for everyone else? I feel connected. Do you feel responsible to the degree that I'm connected? Yes. Why? Because I feel they're part of life and part of what I'm sharing. Do you feel that when you cannot share those things you deem to be the best representatives of your idea of peace with other individual consciousnesses that it makes you sad? Not sad. What then? It's a disharmony that exists on this planet. I am aware of it. It might just be my own awareness, but it seems to be part of the mass consciousness of which I am part. So what? So that is what is going to create our predicted reality in the future as you know. We need to change the mass consciousness to change probable events. Thank you. Have you changed yours? Have you changed your own consciousness? Not fully. Well, allow me to suggest that you have quite a large universe right there within you to deal with before you deal with anyone else's. Now, realize I am not demeaning your feelings for the beings upon your planet. Simply realize that you are focusing on their lack. Do you understand? To focus on their lack helps reinforce their lack. Focus on your own abundance. Focus on abundance for them. But realize while you are focusing on abundance for them, it is always their decision as to whether or not they wish to accept it. Therefore, you can best be of service to your fellow beings by being at peace within yourself. I appreciate your answer. Thank you.

Yes, I would like help on formulating a plan of service connecting up other groups like this in other places in California and formulating a plan where we can do something. I'll say this: go right ahead. What is stopping you? What abilities do you need that you do not possess? You are doing just fine right now. Do you feel you do not believe what you are saying? No, I believe that I'm not the best at this time. I believe I have a problem like I don't let other people talk, I lose my temper and I can't control those things, so I stay out of other people's universe. Realize this: allow me to say that you control them very well to exist, if I may say so, as a convenient barricade which will allow you to ignore the fear you have, which stems from the idea that you are not worth your own creative ideas. You follow me? Yes. I'm afraid that I let go too much. All right. Thank you, Mr. God. Yes, you are a god. Yes. But so is everyone else. Do you understand that so far? Do you know? Relax. I'm reading it and hearing it over and over so it'll sink in. Realize you like them, like me, create totally your own reality. Do you follow that? Really? Totally. Why not? Are you trying to appease me by assuming I know more than you do and I must have some inside information as to why you do not totally understand, rather than trust your own feeling that you do in fact understand that you create your own reality? What do you feel? I feel like I do understand it, but it's not aware of this consciousness right now. I'm just frustrated. But I did not ask you if you felt you understood the totality of all probable realities. I simply asked if you understood the idea. It requires only a simple answer. Yes, I understand the idea of what you are saying. Good. Now realizing as we now have that you create your reality totally, what is the next logical conclusion if they are also creators? I can't see that they would create some of the things I'm afraid of doing. Why not? Well, realize he has just insulted each and every one of you. All right. Thank you. Now, first of all, realize that they have this night of their time allowed themselves to create you within their reality. Have they not? Are you not within their reality right now? Yes. So we're not creating that. Do you follow me? Are you not within their reality right now? Are they not within yours right now? Yes. Realize this mass group reality has happened by conscious, innocent agreement. Do you follow me? You are here and you are allowing the reality to continue. Now realize these individual beings will create within their own realities anything positive or negative they so desire based upon their own beliefs about how their reality should or should not be. Did we follow that so far? Now since each individual creates his or her reality totally, realize that they do so by attracting whatever idea will fulfill their belief structure about their reality, both positive and negative. Do you follow that so far? Therefore, you may allow yourself at this point to realize that you do not have power over anyone else but yourself. Each individual creates his or her own reality. They allow other individuals to become a part of their reality. But in so doing, because your realities are separate by the idea of separation, they in order to experience you must create a version of you within their own reality. You must create your own version of them within your reality. You share commonality on another level entirely. But for what you are concerned with in terms of what you term your physical reality, you must create your own version of them in order to experience them. They must create their own version of you in order to experience you. It is their choice to do so. Realize they can create you right out of their reality if they so choose. No matter how powerful an influence you think you must be upon them, they can make you go away if their belief structure changes. You will have no effect upon them. Do not take responsibility for their own negative choices. At the same time, do not become a victim being attracted to the fulfillment of their negative choices. Do you follow me? You are allowing yourself not to become a dominator but to become their victim, the dominated, by succumbing to the idea that you must act out their negative choices, that you allow yourself to become attracted to their negative ideas of you. Do you follow me? Fascinating. Yes. Quite creative. Yes, you are creative beings. You have more ways than you presently allow yourself to realize for being creative.

How can we tap into these? Separation. You have just created right here, right now a perfect idea of separating yourself from your abilities by saying "how can we tap into these remote, far away things that don't exist right here and right now?" Since I know you know the answer to that one, I will simply say do not fear your own creative potential. Allow yourself to realize that you do not need to create positively by suppressing what you deem to be your negative side. No, it will only come back to haunt you. Allow yourself to realize that what you call your negative side is also a part of creation. Allow it simply to exist in its own place. Allow yourself to realize that you can create whatever you desire. Allow yourself to realize that whatever your physical reality is, it is a reflection of your beliefs. If you find it dire, then your beliefs about reality are dire. If you imagine yourself to be a dominating, evil influence, realize you will create that reality for yourself. But as more and more individual consciousnesses decide to choose peace upon their planet, you may find yourself quite alone in that reality. Though you may imagine you have created millions of willing subjects to fall under your domination, they will be your own creations, realities sprung from your own beliefs about what you think you can and cannot do to someone else.

Allow me to give you a prescription if I may. Take a deep breath. Let it out. Does that not feel relaxing? Then you may take four of those a day, or more. Realizing that each time you do, you will allow more and more of your inner core, your whole self, to simply enjoy life. Enjoy the life you have also created within your own reality. Allow them to enjoy you as they are doing right here, right now. Are you not? Yes. I will be. Yes, you will. Whatever you think you will be, whatever you believe you will be. But why not choose to have fun? Since you can choose anything you wish, it will make you so much happier.

Thank you. We will take a short break. Thank you.

And a very, very good evening. Oh, Enma, you are so wise. When will you read my thoughts, my deepest thoughts, and answer the unspoken questions I have waiting for you? Never. Now realize this. In terms of physical reality, an unspoken thought represents a trust that will not be broken by me. If you do not have the conviction of your thoughts strongly enough to be able to share them with those among you, that thought is not wished to become a reality. Do you follow me? Yes. Therefore, may I say to you all, be bold, be creative, be imaginative, be willing to be a little bit silly. Realize that in our civilization, for each individual which exists upon our worlds, each of those individuals has more what you would term occupations than would seem possible for one individual within a lifetime. Realize those individuals experience their sense of what they are in a completely random fashion; one moment they may feel like portraying the scientist and the next the poet, the mechanic, the artist, the entrepreneur, the wandering minstrel. This does not create what you might think of as disorder. For when you accept and allow creative expression to flower within its truest sense, it will blend harmoniously with all endeavors you seek to undertake, either by yourselves or shared with those around you. You will find any endeavor you wish to express blending, meshing with the endeavors around you. Your momentums will be synchronized. Therefore, please do not feel that there is ever such a thing as a silly question, a silly feeling, a silly belief, an unattainable goal, or that wishful expressions which bring you happiness are not worthy of becoming full-time jobs.

Questions. Yes, I have a curiosity about seed entities that you've talked about before. I haven't heard you speak about them. I would like some information on them and I'd like to know particularly how the physical female would become aware of that contact. Are you planning to write a book with my question or otherwise? I am with the information. That wasn't my reason for asking. Do you want it to? No, I was interested more personally than just in communicating it to others. Realize if at this time you were to understand the full impact of this idea as it relates to your planet, you would want to tell others. I can imagine that; I feel like that's part of my purpose. So I'm not saying that I wouldn't want to write a book, but that wasn't my specific motivation. I feel like in an experience I had recently, I kind of had the idea of seed entities and I was very surprised by it, and then someone here mentioned it, so I wanted some more details. First of all, there are many, many ideas of what you term seed entities. Some have to do with those beings which are born upon your world in order to become recognized as normal members of your society. If they allow themselves to recognize their potential, then you will recognize them. Leave it a year to realize that during the course of that time, you will experience certain aspects of this idea which will be paramount in allowing you to form particular realities which you have chosen in order that you may accomplish specific goals within your lifetime. So to try to put my attention on it at this time would limit me because I don't have a full enough understanding? It wouldn't limit you because you would have a full understanding. It would limit me because I would have a full understanding? Yes. That doesn't sound limiting. If you saw through every possible doorway, you would choose the ones that interested you most at the moment rather than allow yourself to explore the other doorways which may contain larger benefits for the paths which you have chosen. Do you follow that? Yes, I do. Thank you.

If I deal with this idea that I create totally good, then I am thrown into confronting all of the horrible, disastrous, embarrassing, painful, and sometimes difficult to understand. Am I just crazy or a masochist, or is there some good reason to do this? Sometimes I'm very calm and peaceful that it's all for a good cause and I will see it at the end of the tunnel. All right. Thank you. First of all, we will review all information if I may. You cannot cause this for anyone else. But at least I cause their experience in my reality. Yes. Better said. Also review number two: view what you term negative experience simply as an opportunity to realize your full potential at creating positive experience. Do not focus upon the fact that you have created negative experience. You are only reinforcing those creations. Do you follow that? Yes. If you seem to continue to create what you term negative experience, allow me to say it is only because you view such negative experience in the way that you do. Quite truly, it is really only a matter of allowing yourself to understand yourself from various viewpoints, to perceive yourself from various viewpoints which are also yourself. You are not such a bad guy. Why do you imagine you would create eternal misery for yourself? I don't know. Allow me to ask you a question. May I? Do you love yourself? Yes, I do. And at the same time, the things that I have done to myself seem to be trying to convince me that I must also hate myself thoroughly. But do you love yourself? Yes. Then realize that the things you seem to do to yourself are all for the purpose of learning to love yourself more. You are simply putting too much emphasis on the idea that you have the ability to create what you term negative experiences. It is that emphasis alone which gives weight to any experience you create. Do you follow me? Yeah. Now I realize this may seem to be what you might term an oversimplification. It is not. In reality, what I am saying to you is not really simple enough. It is more simple than you realize. All things are quite simple. Complications are simply viewpoints created and emphasized out of guilt which really has no place in a peaceful existence, out of anxiety which really has no place in true progress, and out of self-punishment which really has no place in your idea of a future reality now. Does it? No. The past and the future are created from the present. Both are extensions from the here and now. Your future is right now, right here. Does your future contain guilt, anxiety, and self-punishment? No. Then neither does your present anymore. I did not create your reality. It is that simple. Yes. Thank you.

Do we always just perceive our own creation of everyone else, or can we experience with others' universes and see how they perceive themselves? Yes. Realize your word "perceive" covers a wide range of frequencies. You can perceive physically, mentally, emotionally, hyperconsciously, ultradimensionally, in many, many ways. Realize you are always, always, always connected to the one idea, the one, to all that is. It is you. You are it. Separations stem from that point, spiraling outward creating the various ideas of different dimensions, physical reality and non-physical reality. So there is a root perception of the one; from that point all other perceptions are creations of the mind in various states of awareness and various states of consciousness. Do you follow me? Yes. So while you can in a sense trick yourself into perceiving in a very limited way in one reality, you can at the same time be perceiving in a multiple number of ways in other realities that you can choose to ignore or listen to as you wish. Realize again, again, again, you have ultimate capacity to choose any variation of reality you so desire. Anything you can imagine is in some sense real, any variation on any theme. Well, I choose to perceive 5,281 different kinds of frivolous. When I choose to perceive 5,282, realize those are two separate ideas, two separate realities. And how you choose to perceive each and every one of those ideas is in and of itself another universe, another idea, another reality. You have ultimate choice in at least as many directions as you can imagine and most likely more. You follow that? I do. I'm not sure if we're talking about exactly the same thing because I'm talking about what I consider to be other people's separate realities. That is the very idea of what you consider. They're only separate because I consider them. Thank you. If I think of them as being one, then I would perceive as they in a sense do. Yes. You would not necessarily need to lose your own sense of identity. In so doing, that is a major blockage which you have imposed upon yourselves which prevents you from perceiving all as one. You will not lose your sense of identity if you choose not to. And so would I in a real sense be perceiving as someone else or just as I imagine they would? In a sense it will be real enough to suit your purpose. It will be for you enough to follow. To this point, would they agree with what I say I'm perceiving? Allow me to say this: a difference which makes no difference is no difference. Okay. Thank you.

Are there individuals on your world that use medicine? And if so, what do they use? Can you recommend anything to make it more conscious to help that process? Thank you. Realize first of all that we are speaking of different realities. When I speak of different realities, in no way do I judge yours. But we do not fraction that life form as we have no need of it. A suggestion would be: if you are going to involve yourself in such a process, then you must start from scratch. Find the plant. Find the tree. Carry on communication with this being. Express to it your desire. Express to it the service it will provide should you both come to an agreement that such a being be used for the purposes which you deem necessary. Realize right there that should such an agreement be arrived at for whatever mutually agreeable purpose may ensue, that in and of itself first and foremost will determine the purity of the paper. Do you follow me? Yes, I do. Now I would recommend that if you cannot find a being who is willing to allow you to come to such an agreement after relating to the being as a being, I would proceed no further with the process. You can, however, express in paper that has been made a sense of usage, a sense of purpose. Identify with the purpose. Allow the paper to identify with the purpose. Feel its feelings about the purpose for which it will be used. In your past, such a term, though not completely understood, was called blessing. Bless the event. Allow the paper to do so as well. You will achieve then together a higher sense of purpose. Allow yourself total integrity. Allow the paper total integrity. Allow it in some ways to express ideas to you as to how it should be used to serve a purpose. Allow it to feel that it serves the highest purpose it can. Your idea of pH can be circumvented by this method. Also, pure, pure, pure water. If you immerse the paper in pure water, allow either a single drop of milk within the water or, according to your feeling, a single drop of lime juice in the water depending upon your own feeling of the balance within the paper to be sufficient. Thank you.

Could I ask you another question? You mentioned fractioning. If I were to use a plant material that is already dead, like dead leaves or dead stems, would that be less of an offense? Again, if such has been rendered to a state already existing in that manner, you can at least allow the being to achieve with you some sense of purpose. So it will have its own sense of having achieved its own purpose already. I'm talking about like if I go to a garden and I pick up leaves and stems that have already fallen. It does not matter where. Realize that though they feel they have achieved a purpose, they will always, having no ego, allow you to achieve yet another. Simply recognize this fact within yourself in order that you identify with their purpose. This will bring about within you a direction. Thank you very much. That was very helpful.

Hyperconscious awareness in a sense can be best expressed in physical terms as the entirety of the interconnecting web of energy which forms your individual sense of consciousness and its relationship to the universe you are aware of within it. In a sense, it is your whole self, your sense of your wholeness, your sense of your interconnectedness to all concepts, ideas, realities, universes, probabilities that you wish it to be.

I've been having some troubles with electricity and machines and things like that. It seems like something is interfering with what I'm using in my work, and it's gotten extensive. What I would like to know is what's causing it. Realize there is a suppression of knowledge about yourself. You have very creatively allowed yourself to reach a certain level of awareness while at the same time allowing yourself to consciously be ignorant of having arrived there. Very creative indeed. Now, if you would allow yourself to be comfortable with the idea of your creative potential as it might be expressed along electromagnetic lines, ideas of sound which is connected to electromagnetic lines, you would be able to allow some of that excess overload to funnel through you in creative ways. No pun intended, but you are in a sense channeling around the idea of your machines. You are channeling an idea which can be best expressed perhaps as pure technological data for your planet. You are allowing yourself to act as a receiving station for certain types of energy which are being beamed to your planet in order that individuals may make use of that idea for their creative purposes. Some of this energy within you, because of your lack of recognition of your own talents, lack of recognition of your own channeling ability, has become bottled up, short-circuited. Do you follow? You may, if you allow yourself to play, build for yourself a device which in your imagination will allow you to allow this energy to funnel through you, through the device, and out into the world. Do you follow me? Yes. But I don't know what it is. Allow yourself to play. Allow your imagination to bring it up out of the components with which you are familiar, out of the components which you feel you are responsible for shorting out. It does not matter ultimately what form it takes. You will decide as you go. Be creative. Enjoy your play. Make it up as you go along. You will feel when it is right. You will know if you should add, say, a crystal in the middle. Good suggestion, huh? Try it. See what happens. Also, allow yourself to realize it is all right to receive this energy. It will not put a burden upon you. All right. Thank you.

My eyes for a number of years get irritated. Do you like what you see? I like what I see around here more and more, but I haven't... All right. Wipe the dust off the mirror and you may wipe the dust out of your eyes. It will be all right. Also for you, try the idea of pure, pure, pure water. Allow your eyes to bathe, and at the same time allow your mind to bathe within the idea of cool, pure water. Do that both physically and in your mind. What is pure water? I'm afraid to put stuff in my eyes. You are afraid to put stuff in your eyes. Simply that which in a sense has been filtered of its hard minerals. Allow it to be cool, not cold. If you can, when you are nearby what you know to be a clear stream, use that from the surface only, from within three inches of the surface only. You may also take your bottled water, hold it between your hands not touching it, imagine a clear, cool, blue energy entering the water. Imagine yourself purifying it. This will do. Use that water. Believe in your energy. Believe in its power to heal. Believe in its purity. Trust that when you feel it is pure, it will be pure. Do you follow me? And at some point, realize without taking anything away from its effectiveness, you will be playing a little game with yourself, tricking yourself out of the irritation, which you could do right now without the water by simply realizing you are full of that energy. Allow the energy to pour from your eyes lovingly, and in its passage to cleanse and rectify any irritation that you are harboring about yourself. Okie dokie.

I feel like I'm not allowing myself to develop my musical talent as much as I can, and I'd like to let people comment on how I might be brought to that. Realize first of all that you are very, very concerned with how you may be blocking it, more concerned than you are about the music, more concerned than you are about being excited. Be more excited. Now tell me honestly in front of all these people, do you have musical talent? Yes. How much on a scale of 1 to 10? 10. Really? Really? Yes. I feel like I'm allowing myself as much talent as I can allow myself right now. Well then there is no room for concern. 

How does concern fit in if your musical talent is taking up all 10 points on the scale? There is no room left. I guess because I feel there's 11 and 12. All right, then let's go from one to 100. Now where is your musical talent on that scale? Unless you feel like you should say 100. Well, I kind of feel as though there's no limit. Is that what you are trying to tell me? No, you already know that. 

May I tell you a secret?

You are playing with being worried about it. Do you feel left out that you do not have a problem with it?

Do you feel that in order to be truly creative, you must struggle? 

No. What then? 

Do you feel that if you allow yourself full creative expression, you will run out of ideas and there will be no more challenges? Occasionally. You need simply step back into your creative mode to find more. 

They will always be there when you feel like it. Also realize it is not a crime not to feel like it. There are times when you can say, "Well, the heck with creating this music. I do not feel like it right now, and so I won't."

