---
heading: Part 2
title: "You Always Have Free Will"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1984-06-25
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
tags: ['occupations', 'time']
---



In our civilization, for each individual which exists upon our worlds, each of those individuals has more what you would term occupations than would seem possible for one individual within a lifetime.

Realize those individuals experience their sense of what they are in a completely random fashion; one moment they may feel like portraying the scientist and the next the poet, the mechanic, the artist, the entrepreneur, the wandering minstrel. This does not create what you might think of as disorder. For when you accept and allow creative expression to flower within its truest sense, it will blend harmoniously with all endeavors you seek to undertake, either by yourselves or shared with those around you. You will find any endeavor you wish to express blending, meshing with the endeavors around you. Your momentums will be synchronized. Therefore, please do not feel that there is ever such a thing as a silly question, a silly feeling, a silly belief, an unattainable goal, or that wishful expressions which bring you happiness are not worthy of becoming full-time jobs.

Questions. Yes, I have a curiosity about seed entities that you've talked about before. I haven't heard you speak about them. I would like some information on them and I'd like to know particularly how the physical female would become aware of that contact.

Are you planning to write a book with my question or otherwise? I am with the information. That wasn't my reason for asking. Do you want it to? No, I was interested more personally than just in communicating it to others. Realize if at this time you were to understand the full impact of this idea as it relates to your planet, you would want to tell others. I can imagine that; I feel like that's part of my purpose.

So I'm not saying that I wouldn't want to write a book, but that wasn't my specific motivation. I feel like in an experience I had recently, I kind of had the idea of seed entities and I was very surprised by it, and then someone here mentioned it, so I wanted some more details. First of all, there are many, many ideas of what you term seed entities. Some have to do with those beings which are born upon your world in order to become recognized as normal members of your society. If they allow themselves to recognize their potential, then you will recognize them. Leave it a year to realize that during the course of that time, you will experience certain aspects of this idea which will be paramount in allowing you to form particular realities which you have chosen in order that you may accomplish specific goals within your lifetime. So to try to put my attention on it at this time would limit me because I don't have a full enough understanding? It wouldn't limit you because you would have a full understanding. It would limit me because I would have a full understanding? Yes. That doesn't sound limiting. If you saw through every possible doorway, you would choose the ones that interested you most at the moment rather than allow yourself to explore the other doorways which may contain larger benefits for the paths which you have chosen. Do you follow that? Yes, I do. Thank you.

If I deal with this idea that I create totally good, then I am thrown into confronting all of the horrible, disastrous, embarrassing, painful, and sometimes difficult to understand. Am I just crazy or a masochist, or is there some good reason to do this? Sometimes I'm very calm and peaceful that it's all for a good cause and I will see it at the end of the tunnel. All right. Thank you. First of all, we will review all information if I may. You cannot cause this for anyone else. But at least I cause their experience in my reality. Yes. Better said. Also review number two: view what you term negative experience simply as an opportunity to realize your full potential at creating positive experience. Do not focus upon the fact that you have created negative experience. You are only reinforcing those creations. Do you follow that? Yes. If you seem to continue to create what you term negative experience, allow me to say it is only because you view such negative experience in the way that you do. Quite truly, it is really only a matter of allowing yourself to understand yourself from various viewpoints, to perceive yourself from various viewpoints which are also yourself. You are not such a bad guy. Why do you imagine you would create eternal misery for yourself? I don't know. Allow me to ask you a question. May I? Do you love yourself? Yes, I do. And at the same time, the things that I have done to myself seem to be trying to convince me that I must also hate myself thoroughly. But do you love yourself? Yes. Then realize that the things you seem to do to yourself are all for the purpose of learning to love yourself more. You are simply putting too much emphasis on the idea that you have the ability to create what you term negative experiences. It is that emphasis alone which gives weight to any experience you create. Do you follow me? Yeah. Now I realize this may seem to be what you might term an oversimplification. It is not. In reality, what I am saying to you is not really simple enough. It is more simple than you realize. All things are quite simple. Complications are simply viewpoints created and emphasized out of guilt which really has no place in a peaceful existence, out of anxiety which really has no place in true progress, and out of self-punishment which really has no place in your idea of a future reality now. Does it? No. The past and the future are created from the present. Both are extensions from the here and now. Your future is right now, right here. Does your future contain guilt, anxiety, and self-punishment? No. Then neither does your present anymore. I did not create your reality. It is that simple. Yes. Thank you.

Do we always just perceive our own creation of everyone else, or can we experience with others' universes and see how they perceive themselves? Yes. Realize your word "perceive" covers a wide range of frequencies. You can perceive physically, mentally, emotionally, hyperconsciously, ultradimensionally, in many, many ways. Realize you are always, always, always connected to the one idea, the one, to all that is. It is you. You are it. Separations stem from that point, spiraling outward creating the various ideas of different dimensions, physical reality and non-physical reality. So there is a root perception of the one; from that point all other perceptions are creations of the mind in various states of awareness and various states of consciousness. Do you follow me? Yes. So while you can in a sense trick yourself into perceiving in a very limited way in one reality, you can at the same time be perceiving in a multiple number of ways in other realities that you can choose to ignore or listen to as you wish. Realize again, again, again, you have ultimate capacity to choose any variation of reality you so desire. Anything you can imagine is in some sense real, any variation on any theme. Well, I choose to perceive 5,281 different kinds of frivolous. When I choose to perceive 5,282, realize those are two separate ideas, two separate realities. And how you choose to perceive each and every one of those ideas is in and of itself another universe, another idea, another reality. You have ultimate choice in at least as many directions as you can imagine and most likely more. You follow that? I do. I'm not sure if we're talking about exactly the same thing because I'm talking about what I consider to be other people's separate realities. That is the very idea of what you consider. They're only separate because I consider them. Thank you. If I think of them as being one, then I would perceive as they in a sense do. Yes. You would not necessarily need to lose your own sense of identity. In so doing, that is a major blockage which you have imposed upon yourselves which prevents you from perceiving all as one. You will not lose your sense of identity if you choose not to. And so would I in a real sense be perceiving as someone else or just as I imagine they would? In a sense it will be real enough to suit your purpose. It will be for you enough to follow. To this point, would they agree with what I say I'm perceiving? Allow me to say this: a difference which makes no difference is no difference. Okay. Thank you.

Are there individuals on your world that use medicine? And if so, what do they use? Can you recommend anything to make it more conscious to help that process? Thank you. Realize first of all that we are speaking of different realities. When I speak of different realities, in no way do I judge yours. But we do not fraction that life form as we have no need of it. A suggestion would be: if you are going to involve yourself in such a process, then you must start from scratch. Find the plant. Find the tree. Carry on communication with this being. Express to it your desire. Express to it the service it will provide should you both come to an agreement that such a being be used for the purposes which you deem necessary. Realize right there that should such an agreement be arrived at for whatever mutually agreeable purpose may ensue, that in and of itself first and foremost will determine the purity of the paper. Do you follow me? Yes, I do. Now I would recommend that if you cannot find a being who is willing to allow you to come to such an agreement after relating to the being as a being, I would proceed no further with the process. You can, however, express in paper that has been made a sense of usage, a sense of purpose. Identify with the purpose. Allow the paper to identify with the purpose. Feel its feelings about the purpose for which it will be used. In your past, such a term, though not completely understood, was called blessing. Bless the event. Allow the paper to do so as well. You will achieve then together a higher sense of purpose. Allow yourself total integrity. Allow the paper total integrity. Allow it in some ways to express ideas to you as to how it should be used to serve a purpose. Allow it to feel that it serves the highest purpose it can. Your idea of pH can be circumvented by this method. Also, pure, pure, pure water. If you immerse the paper in pure water, allow either a single drop of milk within the water or, according to your feeling, a single drop of lime juice in the water depending upon your own feeling of the balance within the paper to be sufficient. Thank you.

Could I ask you another question? You mentioned fractioning. If I were to use a plant material that is already dead, like dead leaves or dead stems, would that be less of an offense? Again, if such has been rendered to a state already existing in that manner, you can at least allow the being to achieve with you some sense of purpose. So it will have its own sense of having achieved its own purpose already. I'm talking about like if I go to a garden and I pick up leaves and stems that have already fallen. It does not matter where. Realize that though they feel they have achieved a purpose, they will always, having no ego, allow you to achieve yet another. Simply recognize this fact within yourself in order that you identify with their purpose. This will bring about within you a direction. Thank you very much. That was very helpful.

Hyperconscious awareness in a sense can be best expressed in physical terms as the entirety of the interconnecting web of energy which forms your individual sense of consciousness and its relationship to the universe you are aware of within it. In a sense, it is your whole self, your sense of your wholeness, your sense of your interconnectedness to all concepts, ideas, realities, universes, probabilities that you wish it to be.

I've been having some troubles with electricity and machines and things like that. It seems like something is interfering with what I'm using in my work, and it's gotten extensive. What I would like to know is what's causing it. Realize there is a suppression of knowledge about yourself. You have very creatively allowed yourself to reach a certain level of awareness while at the same time allowing yourself to consciously be ignorant of having arrived there. Very creative indeed. Now, if you would allow yourself to be comfortable with the idea of your creative potential as it might be expressed along electromagnetic lines, ideas of sound which is connected to electromagnetic lines, you would be able to allow some of that excess overload to funnel through you in creative ways. No pun intended, but you are in a sense channeling around the idea of your machines. You are channeling an idea which can be best expressed perhaps as pure technological data for your planet. You are allowing yourself to act as a receiving station for certain types of energy which are being beamed to your planet in order that individuals may make use of that idea for their creative purposes. Some of this energy within you, because of your lack of recognition of your own talents, lack of recognition of your own channeling ability, has become bottled up, short-circuited. Do you follow? You may, if you allow yourself to play, build for yourself a device which in your imagination will allow you to allow this energy to funnel through you, through the device, and out into the world. Do you follow me? Yes. But I don't know what it is. Allow yourself to play. Allow your imagination to bring it up out of the components with which you are familiar, out of the components which you feel you are responsible for shorting out. It does not matter ultimately what form it takes. You will decide as you go. Be creative. Enjoy your play. Make it up as you go along. You will feel when it is right. You will know if you should add, say, a crystal in the middle. Good suggestion, huh? Try it. See what happens. Also, allow yourself to realize it is all right to receive this energy. It will not put a burden upon you. All right. Thank you.

My eyes for a number of years get irritated. Do you like what you see? I like what I see around here more and more, but I haven't... All right. Wipe the dust off the mirror and you may wipe the dust out of your eyes. It will be all right. Also for you, try the idea of pure, pure, pure water. Allow your eyes to bathe, and at the same time allow your mind to bathe within the idea of cool, pure water. Do that both physically and in your mind. What is pure water? I'm afraid to put stuff in my eyes. You are afraid to put stuff in your eyes. Simply that which in a sense has been filtered of its hard minerals. Allow it to be cool, not cold. If you can, when you are nearby what you know to be a clear stream, use that from the surface only, from within three inches of the surface only. You may also take your bottled water, hold it between your hands not touching it, imagine a clear, cool, blue energy entering the water. Imagine yourself purifying it. This will do. Use that water. Believe in your energy. Believe in its power to heal. Believe in its purity. Trust that when you feel it is pure, it will be pure. Do you follow me? And at some point, realize without taking anything away from its effectiveness, you will be playing a little game with yourself, tricking yourself out of the irritation, which you could do right now without the water by simply realizing you are full of that energy. Allow the energy to pour from your eyes lovingly, and in its passage to cleanse and rectify any irritation that you are harboring about yourself. Okie dokie.

I feel like I'm not allowing myself to develop my musical talent as much as I can, and I'd like to let people comment on how I might be brought to that. Realize first of all that you are very, very concerned with how you may be blocking it, more concerned than you are about the music, more concerned than you are about being excited. Be more excited. Now tell me honestly in front of all these people, do you have musical talent? Yes. How much on a scale of 1 to 10? 10. Really? Really? Yes. I feel like I'm allowing myself as much talent as I can allow myself right now. Well then there is no room for concern. 

How does concern fit in if your musical talent is taking up all 10 points on the scale? There is no room left. I guess because I feel there's 11 and 12. All right, then let's go from one to 100. Now where is your musical talent on that scale? Unless you feel like you should say 100. Well, I kind of feel as though there's no limit. Is that what you are trying to tell me? No, you already know that. 

May I tell you a secret?

You are playing with being worried about it. Do you feel left out that you do not have a problem with it?

Do you feel that in order to be truly creative, you must struggle? 

No. What then? 

Do you feel that if you allow yourself full creative expression, you will run out of ideas and there will be no more challenges? Occasionally. You need simply step back into your creative mode to find more. 

They will always be there when you feel like it. Also realize it is not a crime not to feel like it. There are times when you can say, "Well, the heck with creating this music. I do not feel like it right now, and so I won't."