---
heading: "Part 2 of Without Struggle"
title: "Sexual Orgasm"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1985-04-17
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
tags: ['archetypal energy', 'orgasm', 'Nikola Tesla', 'Bermuda Triangle']
weight: 26
---



## What is archetypal energy?

The mass consciousness has its own subconscious self that lets the parts of your consciousness which does not manifest in physical reality to manifest and be populated with its own sense of personality and consciousness. 

But it is an underlying current, a subconscious portion of your mass consciousness. 

You may understand the idea of the energy when you view portions of the mass consciousness in symbolic terms and make them or project them to be physical. 

From time to time there is overlap. There will then be the rise of stories, what you call mythological creatures. 

### Q: How many counterparts might one whole soul self have? 

It is up to them. Any number. 

There will be to a degree limitation based upon the civilization involved. In a sense, are we actually all counterparts again on one level? 

Yes. So maybe some of us are counterparts to one whole soul self and then other whole soul selves are counterparts to other whole soul selves, and it goes on up from the root trunk of the tree to be all one tree. Yes. Thank you.

How would one recognize a counterpart? 

You may not. You might not even like the other half. Yes. Understand again, however, it will always be an opportunity to view the overall purpose of the whole soul self. 

Simply when the whole soul self projects different personalities into physical reality at the same time, there is a purpose within that idea of allowing itself to experience itself from different points of view. 

Oh, I have another thing. When people who see visions for instance and the visions materialize and talk to them, like I was reading a book where someone had a guru and when his guru died he missed him physically, and so his guru came back one more time to talk with him physically and he could touch him and everything, yet he had died. 

That's the idea of archetypal energy again, isn't it? The idea that you can to a degree form a thought and actually give it a form and talk to it, and then dematerialize again because it's really not vibrating within our reality to stay. 

Yes. Very good. Understand that that other individual who had died was still to some degree connected to the idea. Right. But yes, you have described well within the context of your civilization and the vibrational pattern represented by your level of physicality. 

Like when children have their invisible playmates that to them might be quite visible, and they've created that and it's real for them, and it is real. Yes. And they can talk to it and talk back. Yes. I was going to talk about the idea of insanity? No, I wasn't. Dissimilar, you know, according to our definition. Yes. Could you talk a little bit about that? It has already been discussed. This is simply the perception of other realities not completely shared by the mass reality in which you are also partaking. No less real, just not the mass agreed upon reality.


Asker: What are the difference and similarities between the dream state and the death state or leaving the body? 

Bashar: Not really too much difference. The dream reality, imagination reality, physical reality are all different portions and versions and viewpoints of the same one All That Is reality. Different ways of looking at yourself. 

The dream reality is much the death experience. Understand that what you remember of the dream reality is a physical interpretation. You follow me? Yes. In that way, you may say that the more bizarre the memory of the dream, the more real the experience in the dream level, the less sense your physical level will be able to make of it. It will use whatever symbols it has at its disposal. 

But the more deeply lived the dream reality, the less that the physical symbols will make analytical sense. You follow me? Yes, I do. I've had the idea that having dropped the body might be like being in the dream and not being able to wake up or get back to physical reality. You now have to some degree the awareness that it is for you the real perception. You will not feel lost or locked into a dream. 

You will know yourself to be there really, in the same way that when you experience astral projection, though it may have dreamlike qualities, you know what you are perceiving is real. Do you follow me? Yes, I do. Thank you. Understand that you are dreaming right now. Yes, I know. I have glimpses of that from time to time. All right. How does it feel? Feels quite real. I do. It is. You may take your break.



## Sexual Orgasm

Asker: What happens in sexual orgasm? They say it is such a joyous experience because you are creating the future or creating future bodies for your existence. 

<!-- Not so much that idea. Understandably you are within that instinct connecting to all of yourself and giving yourself the physical reflection or mirroring of that same idea.  -->

Bashar: At the moment of connection, you are creating physical changes which will release or spur both electrical and chemical interaction which drive the consciousness inward to the center of itself.

But at the same time, orgasm is ultimately an expansion outward into every level of existence into which you project yourself. 

So you will find it to be simultaneously the total withdrawal inward and the expansion outward to full extension. 


I've heard that it's a little trip out of the body. 

Bashar: Only in that sense that we have described. The physical sexual encounter will be fully focused in the physical form, as within your astral state it is not experiential. 

Therefore, understand that within the astral state, as you undertake astral projection, if there is the choice of the stimulation of your consciousness in that way, you will immediately snap back to your physical body in order to experience what you cannot experience non-physically. 

So in a sense, is there no such thing as sex in any other kind of dimension? 

It is simply interaction of consciousness. What you term physical sex as you know the idea will simply be physical. 

You will have interaction and sharing of consciousness which may feel to be a part of the sexual act when you allow that spiritual sharing to also manifest within the physical sex act. 

In other words, as you experience the physical sex act, if you also allow for the willingness of the connection to take place spiritually as well as physically, then that sharing spiritually is what you will experience in the non-physical form, but not the physical sensation. 

**That's why people say that sex is better when you're in love.**

But the idea of being in love is to be completely connected to all of yourself, to all that is.

Asker: There are people that believe it's better to be celibate and that they will gain knowledge of themselves faster or easier if they abstain.

That is their choice. if they were to allow themselves to have orgasms they would feel that they were deterring themselves from their spiritual path, and they probably therefore would be, to themselves, because that's what they believe at that time. It is their idea. 

There may be more in the sense again two ways to look at that: in the overall sense of simply experiencing a time of experiencing the self without the idea of sexual interaction, but not in the resistance or shunning of it as something less than worthy within all that is.


## Being Nervous

Asker: I've experienced extreme emotionality, almost insane, as if anticipating something in the future, and the body itself is going through a nervous feeling, and I feel vulnerable, not totally in control, like I'm walking around in my dream more than I am in physical reality.

Bashar: You're describing all of the physical effects of disconnecting from one reality and forming another, but also allowing the disconnection transformation neutral limbo state in and of itself to also be a valid experiential reality. 

So just ride with it. It will be very enjoyable. There is much to experience within the transformation itself.

Question. There are fluctuations in the vibration here LA that gives the body a very nervous, frenetic kind of reaction where we all want to kill each other. 

I know that, and just knowing that helps because then you don't kill somebody. You just wait a few days. I just wanted to know if there's any suggestions for allowing that simply to flow or understanding its nature better. Similarly, you may understand your own nature. Flow with that, and you will not have the effect. Oh, that's very good. Thank you.


My reality includes a lot of looking at numbers. I've been studying numbers and thinking about numbers. I've been wondering if numbers exist on the spiritual plane in a similar state of understanding as on the physical plane. 

Not quite the same. The root point of the idea is expressed more in the patterns of harmonic resonance rather than in the symbolicness of the mathematical number. 

The physical plane's manifestation is manifestation of numbers. So is the spiritual plane in its own way a manifestation of numbers? 

The harmonic may extend through all dimensions of reality in that it is simply one way to describe the vibrations which compose the primal energy which is the foundation of all creation. 

Also another way which exists on your plane also on many other planes will be tonality. Yes, they coexist. 

Does your planet follow the same single-digit one through nine system or is it different? It is to some degree different, but understand that we have the recognition within that system simply of the cognition of many different vibratory patterns in whole conceptual form. So you have more than one through nine? 

Single digit meaning what would be translatable? Every idea may be expressed as a single digit. 

How many ideas are there? A lot. 

it is a matter of how you look at the idea, how you wish to add or blend any idea, what type and how many separations you wish to create. You follow me? Yes. Understandably we do to some degree have a similar understanding of the idea that you experience as mathematics, but it is different. 

To some degree it will involve magnitudes or dimensionalities which for us will be experiential as well as symbolic. Every idea is a reality to be experienced. Therefore, you may say that when we choose to understand the mathematical relationship of an idea, we become that idea, experiencing it directly by simply knowing. Therefore, it will not take a great deal of figuring out how to construct some idea. It will simply be understood in what you would term instinct, as you experience the idea of your animal life making many constructions that are mathematically perfect, following the nature of mathematics. They will be doing it by becoming the mathematics rather than thinking about them. It is not analyzation. Yes. Thank you.


Asker: A few days ago, we launched a satellite and it didn't work at all. Can you give me any idea why it didn't work? 

Bashar: Take into consideration heat factors generated within circuitry over the entire load.

Question. I've been seeing... the other night Christina shared something about an experience she had with sensation with the earth. 

When I closed my eyes, I had a pattern come to me that had to do with the energy she was describing. Lately when I feel certain energies, I'll have these abstract patterns flash into my mind. 

I really like them because I like abstract things like that. But also every idea would have some kind of energy pattern. All right, to a degree. So as you understand the idea of pattern within your physical universe, it will be perceived to have a signature vibration which identifies that idea, like a symbol, like a letter will be a symbol for a word. Understand that what you call physical reality is a symbol. We are all symbols.

Question. We had a tremendous amount of smog over LA and it seems like I can hardly tolerate smog.

My eyes got to hurting so badly, my body got to hurting. How does one handle the body to handle the smog? 


Bashar: Allow yourself to identify with the reality that you identify with which does not include that effect for you. Then you may walk through a thick cloud of smog and not feel a thing. 

It will have nothing to do with you. You may observe it knowing that you are a part of this reality which has that creation within it, but it is not your shared part of the reality. 

Identify your own vibration, your own tone, and understand that that is simply not part of that tone in the sense of a negative effect. It is part of the overall tone in that you share the mass consciousness in recognizing that manifestation. But recognize it simply as a manifestation. Do not judge it. Do not judge yourself. 

Simply allow yourself to vibrate at whatever level of resonance you wish so that it has nothing to do with that particular manifestation in terms of a negative effect upon you. Understand that reference to that idea throughout much of your literature. There are many references to that idea within what you term your Bible, experiencing or walking through situations which have no effect upon the walker. That is fair reality. I've been able to handle a lot of things that come to you. 

I suggest that it is not a matter of having to handle anything.

I've listed vibrations of anything that seemed to be bothering me and anymore handle them very quickly, and I was amazed that I just couldn't even seem to cope with the smog. 

I guess that was the reason I couldn't match that vibration. All right. Simply allow yourself to relax and enjoy what your imagination brings you about your relationship to that idea. Understand it again as yet another opportunity to view another portion of yourself and integrate it within you so that you will vibrate at a resonance which no longer needs to be affected by that idea negatively. Thank you. Passing through the experience, living the experience always allows you to integrate it and as such move on to the next tool. Then that will no longer be a tool that you need to experience in a negative way. It is very simple. Thank you. Yes.


There were 3 beings that showed up at the house there in the hallway. Did you perceive them?

There was a purpose behind it. 

Since that occurred, the left side of my head has been hurting a lot. Is it connected? I'm not real certain, but I think it is. 

Bashar: Follow your instinct. See where it leads you.


Question: Nikola Tesla supposedly developed a method of materializing energy anywhere on the planet without transmission. Do you know if he actually developed that method? can you give me the basics of what was involved?

Bashar: it was an understanding of your earth as one crystal, one vibration.

it has a signature vibration of 7.5 cycles per second. 

The wavelength of that frequency will find itself reaching its crest in an ever-expanding circle from one point upon your planet, reaching its crest at the equator. 

It will then rebound to the opposite apex of the origin point, then bounce again back to the origin point passing over the equator, picking up momentum, creating one resonant frequency through the entire field of the earth, and as such will make available at any point upon the earth the tapping into appropriately of that energy. 

So he was using a tapping source rather than generating it from a particular source. 

It was generated, but it was not so much just generated as activated or put into motion the field which already exists in its own natural frequency. 

Asker: So did he create a matching resonance at one point which then tapped into the other, much in the same way that we would tune a channel on a television? 

Bashar: Yes. But understand that at the time much of the technology existent could not be tuned to that vibration. And so they simply shorted out, and so there was much in your terms hew and cry. 

Asker: Was he able to draw energy from the earth source or did he have to generate?

Bashar: it is not so much drawing as it is putting into motion. There was simply the electrical generation which initiated the movement of the field. Then it was to a degree self-sustaining to a certain point. You're building on a harmonic sequence. 

Asker: What did he use for the receiver to draw the energy out?

Bashar: it was an interaction with the electromagnetic field round and about your planet. Not so much a receiver, simply the sender of a certain harmonic vibration which created a harmonic resonance within the field of the earth. It was the idea of simply pulsing.

Asker: When I'm in touch with the earth crystal I feel that same thing.

Question: the Ra material talks about that the earth already changed to the fourth density, the physical earth as opposed to the people on it. What does that mean? 

Bashar: The mass consciousness is almost completely realized into the fourth density vibration, and the idea of the entire earth crystal overly coincides to a degree with that idea. You are on the cusp, right in the doorway. In the same idea of the pulsing, you are experiencing a slingshot effect. 

Vibration is manifesting towards that idea but in a way has already manifested. Your own consciousness is now deciding to what idea you will vibrate. There is a window of time lasting a few of your years in which you may decide which way you wish to go. And those who would wish to continue operating on a third density vibration would choose another planet, an alternate parallel idea of that particular earth. It will not seem to them to have changed.

It would just be the same good old earth. That is the part of it which isn't going to change.

Question: What is going on in the Bermuda Triangle with vessels disappearing and stuff? 


Bashar: From time to time manifestation of the physicalization of the overlap of many different dimensions of reality. You understand? So they are going to different dimensions. They are leaving this physical planet. Some simply experience the electromagnetic effects without the transference and are destroyed. Many of those incidents still exist on your planet simply underneath your ocean, having crashed or sunk. You follow me? If the people that survive that, do they know that they're in another dimension or do they go on? After a very short time they acclimate, become that identity, different vibration, so they don't even know the change. To them it's like when we go into another reality parallel. Very good.

If we went to Essassani in our own time frame and we find Bashar not been born for 145 years... Again understand that the idea of what we have transmitted to you as Essassani: if you were able to coexist with that vibration you would simply be there in the time frame that we exist, because the idea to you is a future idea. You follow me? I think so. Understand that when you vibrate with the idea you call Essassani, when you are there, you will be 300 years in your future.

I've always wondered if a spirit came into this dimension from another dimension where there was no time, would they not necessarily come in at any time? They would come in at any time they choose. Understand that is what you do when you give yourself past, present, and future lives. You may come in anytime you wish simultaneously. But while you are here, you think it is a past life you already had, a present life you have now, and a future life you have yet to experience. But you are a spirit coming in from no time into time, anywhere you wish along the time track simultaneously. Right.

I also wondered if we went back far enough in time, would we perceive time totally in a different way as well? If we went back a billion years, would time seem the same to us or would it feel totally different? There may be ideas of both in that way. You may perceive that you are in a different time frame. It may feel different, but you may still perceive time as you know it as well. You will check yourself by counting. You follow me? Yeah. Might be a little faster or slower or something. Again, will be up to you. How long have we been a billion years in the past? One hour. All right. Time to go home and for lunch. You follow me? It will be up to you. Time is malleable. I suppose everyone perceives time in their own way.

Do you have any ideas or suggestions on how to manipulate time, to stretch it? Understand that when you are completely living, then you do not recognize the passage of time. You follow me more or less? You have been so completely involved in an idea that you did not know how many hours had passed; it seemed like minutes. Yeah. Understand for you, you projected yourself ahead. You only experienced minutes. Then you had collapsed the idea of time. I'd like to have more control over that. You do. You cannot have any more than you already have. Time is your creation. Simply by becoming involved in what you are doing and not worrying about the passage of time will time fly. You know what you say about having fun. It is as simple as that. Allow yourself to live rather than think about it. When you think about it, thinking takes time. When you live, no time at all. Oh, that's wonderful. Thank you. Thank you.

Question. I've experienced a lot of times a consciousness that is in trees and limbs and buds. They seem to acknowledge me. Yes. When you allow yourself to acknowledge that idea as being real, as your connection to all consciousness, every idea is consciousness in one form or another. Would it be the same consciousness as ourselves in a sense? Yes, it is a part of all that is. You are all that is. They seem to recognize me and the fact that I'm acknowledging them. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Oh, thank you. It is always very beautiful to communicate with your own consciousness through the idea you have created which you call nature. Yeah. Really? Then you'll understand that you are a part of the earth crystal. And that it is also conscious. Yes. And that is the idea again as expressed in the terminology Gaea, the consciousness of the earth. What was that? The terminology Gaea is the consciousness of the earth. Where does that word come from? Much of your ancient literature.

Question. I seem to be changing my concept of time and creation. Yes. I used to look at creation in the sense that I'm going to have this idea and if I do certain things eventually it will come about, putting it on a time frame into the future. The way I seem to be looking at it now is that the creation has already taken place. Yes, it is. It is the allowance. It's the allowance and the assuming that it is already taking place. You're eliminating the physical barriers of time. It automatically eliminates, or not so much eliminates but allows it to be manifested within the least amount of time possible for your reality. Right. So it comes down to faith in your beingness. That is all there is. I Am. Yes. And every idea is complete. That's it. I'm done. Thank you.

Now you may begin. Thank you. You're welcome.

Question. Can you tell us anything about Findhorn? Why is it that in that place people see fairies and all kinds of stuff? Simply understand the willingness of the individuals to be in touch with their own archetypal energy, their relationship to the earth crystal and all levels of their consciousness expressed in that way specifically. Is there anything special about that place or just that the people are attracted to that place? They have made it special for themselves. Again, understand that there are energy points upon your planet which you may understand in the same way that your body has chakras. That will be one of them to a degree. The recognition of the energy will simply be again another willingness to allow the self to be in touch with the earth crystal and its energy flow. What they make of it is their choice.

Question. Are there things that you personally like more than other things? There are ideas to which I identify. But again, it is not a matter of like. What I am, I unfold. Why don't you like or not like? When you know what you are, you enjoy everything. What is there not to enjoy? You just don't allow to exist in your reality what you do not enjoy. We do not vibrate with the idea. Therefore, we never come across an idea we do not enjoy. I see. Wow. Do you have any preference? It is how it works for you as well. The idea you call preference will simply be that idea to which I am willing to vibrate. Period. So you could experience something you didn't like if you chose to. Yes. Okay. But again understand that to some degree the idea that you represent as our civilization will already have worked through that idea; as such, no need. So it's such a different way of looking at things instead of "I like this food and I don't like that food." You just look at it in a different way: I'm attracted to this food right now. That is what I am right now. This is how I vibrate right now. Therefore, if I am equal to this idea right now, then it is joyful automatically. We don't have to think about it. We simply enjoy it.

If you look at something and you don't vibrate towards it, is it because you have no need to experience it or because you don't want it? Again, understand that simply when you have your own vibration, what you may observe to be a part of the overall mass consciousness you are in but not part of your own personal reality, you will simply find yourself either not interacting with it or find yourself impassive, impartial. You will know when you are resisting an idea because there will be a great deal of emotionality involved. Right? So if there's no emotionality involved, that's something else. Realize that knowing precedes emotionality. What you know you do not necessarily have to feel, although that is a great compassion because you will still recognize yourself as connected, recognize any idea as a reflection of yourself. But if it is owned, then no need to make a big deal about it. You simply recognize it.

Question. Some of us got together last night and felt the presence of Anna, and we were allowing ourselves to communicate with her. At first we were kind of stilted and trying to be serious, and then after a while we started goofing off and being random and funny, and we really started to get a feel of Essassani being a big ball of everyone having a real ball. I was wondering about the limitations that you still create as far as being an Essassani. Understandably, there will still be much of the idea of physicality, of the time frame, from time to time. There will be magnitudes of consciousness to which we are also still exploring. You follow me? Can you be more specific? There are dimensions of reality of which we know nothing. So you're still exploring. We always will be. Of course. So will you. Sure. Every consciousness operates on every level. In this focus up until more recently, we've tended to be very focused on one level to a degree, except we can't stay connected up in dream space and whatnot. How is it focused there? Are you focused to any degree on some of your consciousness that are at levels other than the fourth density? To some degree. But realize that we have chosen to do or say many ideas which involve focus within the third level and the transition from third to fourth. Understand that the idea of knowing or being in contact with information will be limited by our allowance or our choice of not wishing to interfere with free will. Whose free will? Anyone's, including your own. Therefore, when we communicate with you many times, we will not know information that you seek from us. That will be our sign that to know it would be to interfere with your free will. Yes, I understand. Therefore, we have chosen the limitation of not knowing many things. Right. Otherwise we wouldn't really have taken this whole life seriously, right? I know that you have those limitations, but I just wanted more of a feel of what it tends to be like. Obviously it's very different than the third density. Now realize we are still, as you say, third density. Oh, so you're going through the transition too. Yes. All the counterpart civilizations are. I see. Wow. That's really wild. There are different ideas even within third density. Yes, I've noticed. Very different. Like there's a lot of different stations on the AM dial. Right. Is there anything else you can tell me about the fourth density? You will find out. Have you found anything surprising or interesting about this dimension or our planet as compared to your planet? Understand that when the initial contacts were made, the idea that you call religion was a great surprise. I have not found it anywhere else. You have not found the idea of religion? Many different ideas of religion, and the idea in and of itself of not being but simply following, pretending. You mean a separateness of religion per se and the idea of being and living? Yes. It was a great reflection for us of all of the possibilities within all that is and the idea of the integration of the positive and negative energies. It was a great teaching. Thank you.

Is that a similar reflection to the Orion energy? Not really. But understand simply that within any particular manifestation upon your planet, there will be the opportunity to experience service to self or service to all that is, freedom of choice or the idea of domination. Any endeavor is not restricted to the idea of your core religion. I see. So domination doesn't really exist anywhere else like here? It does in that beings have chosen to experience the idea of domination. There are civilizations that choose to experience the idea of a suppression of free will. But it is a choice. They choose to view that there are betters and lessers, as much upon your planet has chosen to experience the idea as well. So it's a separation from what you believe and what you are. Yes.

Question. Is that phenomenon what creates the shells? Yes. Separation again from what you are will create the artificiality, shells of artificial emotions, hope, analyzation, and so on. Thank you.

Question. Do all those other civilizations... you say the association is composed of about how many civilizations? Did you say six or do they all have a different time frame and so on? There will be to some degree harmonious interaction, and that will occur within your terminology one time frame. Otherwise in and of themselves they operate on many different frequencies of existence. Understand that to a degree any idea that is its own civilization, its own mass consciousness, exists in a slightly different vibration. Therefore, when traveling from planet to planet, there is the idea of shifting in frequency in order to experience the consciousness upon that planet. Otherwise, you may simply experience that planet as barren or not experience the planet at all. So in a sense, if we went all over the universe, we'd just find barren planets unless we shifted our frequency. Yes. In the whole universe. Understand although there will be many civilizations on many planets who will be very close to your frequency, if they are close to your frequency they are close to your level of civilization and not what you would term advancement. That is why the idea of advancement, while we do not view it as being better, in your terminology advancement implies existing within a future time, a future vibration. The idea that someday we will achieve that is a future thought, a future projection. When you are in that civilization, even though it seems to be simultaneous, you will understand that you had to shift your vibrational level to the idea of being equal to that future projection. Any civilizations that you find close to your own vibration will also be exactly at your level of civilization to some degree. So we could perceive them without shifting? It will still be a slight shift, still be by agreement. You may not be aware of it. It may be very slight. There are civilizations upon many of the planets within your own solar system but not physically as you understand it. It is another dimensional shift. Therefore, all of the planets within your solar system, aside from your own, will appear to be barren of that type of life. Follow me? If we went to a civilization on Mars or Venus in a different time frequency, do they look at Earth and see Earth as barren? In a sense, yes. So they don't know that there's life on Earth even though they have great civilizations there in a different frequency? Yes. Understand again, to travel in space is to travel in time. Space and time are all the same idea. There are other civilizations within your solar system in different time frequencies, different dimensional frequencies, but not in your own. Are all the planets in this solar system inhabited? Not really in that sense. You will find many different ideas. There will be planets which you perceive to still exist which have civilizations upon them in your past in a sense, some in your future, some of which are yourselves. There are civilizations in past time frames where the planet no longer exists. You follow me? Yes. There are also consciousnesses within different dimensions of reality, not existing in a sense upon the planet as you understand it, but existing and being able to perceive all the different levels of all the civilizations that have existed, do exist, or will exist on all the planets in your solar system. 

They function as what you understand to be to some degree the council of your system. 

There is for every system a council or association which perceives and interacts with all other consciousness for the idea expressed within any particular system.

They are representatives. Are they individuals or are they more like an essence or archetypal? Both. It consists of both in a sense. Could we as individuals be part of an overall council to some degree? 

But I will say that still within your mass consciousness will be a different time frame for you. Oh, I see. Is there an approximate time of that? Not at this time. Is this the Galactic Federation? 

Simply understand that the idea of Galactic Federation will be more the idea of what we call the association. What we term to be your council will simply be the portion of the association with relative representation of a particular system. It will be a portion of the association. Do you follow me? 

How long have you known of our existence? Do you mean in the sense of physicality? Approximately in your terms of time, there will be to some degree variation depending upon the viewpoint, but understand simply approximately 275 years. That was how long ago you first heard of religion? 275 years ago. 

So we must have been vibrating at some frequency equal to yours or similar. It was when we began to understand the idea of our counterpart consciousness within you. You will understand the vibration of the counterpart consciousness within another civilization and relate to them in much the same way we relate to you within approximately the same amount of time from now. Would everyone on your planet relate to us or only certain individuals? At this point, since we are also vibrating within the idea of a mass consciousness, everyone. So then everyone on Earth will recognize a counterpart civilization at some point. Yes. How long would that take? Within as we have said the approximation of your mass consciousness at this time, roughly 300 years. Meaning we'll have news bulletins and stuff like that? You will simply at that time know your own consciousness. You will not need that idea you call the media. Oh, that's great.

Could the Sirians in a similar fashion just come and basically discover you? Similar, different but similar. 275 years ago or would it be another 300? That would be slightly different. In their terms of time, their fluctuation and idea of themselves took quite a different path. It would be the awareness 500 of your years ago. But to some degree their awareness preceded our awareness of them. Their awareness of you. Yes. It's certainly possible for all these time definitions to change. Correct.

If all the civilizations in this solar system hit upon the same frequency at the same time, wouldn't that be interesting? Understand that to some degree that may occur, but by definition they will by being other civilizations be on a slightly different frequency. Otherwise you would be part of the same civilization having different viewpoints, different aspects, different facets, which is in a sense possible. But you wouldn't recognize it as one civilization. That's like each of us vibrating at a different frequency individually, right? Otherwise we wouldn't see each other separately. 

<!-- Question. Do you have ice cream on your planet?  -->

There will be the consumption more of fruit and vegetable, also the consumption of the idea that has been created within the mass consciousness of an organic idea which is separate from naturally growing fruit and vegetable, but is created from the mass consciousness so that it will simply be a projection from ourselves in a more direct sense. 

For the most part, no need to consume the naturally growing consciousness of the fruit and vegetable. What about the Sirian civilizations? What do they eat? Energy. They fluctuate within ideas of time. 

The fluctuations in and of themselves provide the sustaining idea. I've heard stories that there have been people on this earth planet who have been able to just live on energy without eating, and they were just demonstrating that ability, not saying we were all going to be like that, but just showing it's fun.


Question. You look like the people on the Pleiades. The Pleiadian civilization is similar? 

We are on average 5 feet tall. Skin coloration will be the major difference; ours is white to whitish gray. Pleiadians are more along your own line. 

Do you have different variations of skin like we have black people? 

Not as much. We have long since integrated. Pleiadians can walk on earth without being recognized more or less.


I asked about Lazarus, and also a number of times when people ask questions having to do with some other consciousness, and then you pause for a while, are you communicating with that being and finding out what they want to say? 

Bashar: It is more the checking with the vibration of the mass consciousness and the purpose unfolding at the time with regard to any particular idea within it. 

I was listening to a tape where Tom was channeling, and the voice manifestation, the way the words were said and the tone, sounded very much like yours, and yours sounds very much like Animus too. Is there some particular point that all of you flow your consciousness through, or to some degree is there that interaction? 

But also to a great degree it is part and parcel of the idea contained within the consciousness of the channels themselves. 

You are receiving a translation through a translation device that the channel provides. There is simply similarity within the experience of how they choose to relate to the idea of the communication. 

Therefore, much of the translation will be similar in terms of the effect, the way the words are said and the emphasis on certain words. Even from Tom to Daryl, to some degree it will represent the idea of the blending of those consciousnesses as well as the blending of our consciousnesses. There is the blending of the physical consciousnesses within the channels themselves in the purpose of interacting and forming the idea of a network of all the different events taking place.

Also there is the communication between ourselves and the other conscious methods that channel through the physical channels. Both ideas will create to some degree the sense of similarity.
