---
title: "Hologram"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1985-12-04
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 77
---



The Oversoul chooses the concept that will be dealt with.

But your mental self that which you consider to be a product of your personality chooses the methodology by which you will examine the concept in physical life. Could you tell us what those concepts are?

There are many. It is not that there is a limitation of concepts.

The oversoul self chooses the general concept. Let us say the idea of exploring self-empowerment through abundance. Now an individual's personality and mentality methodology may be to go about exploring this idea in many ways. Can be through the expression of polarities positive and negative. can be through many different avenues and interactions with different other individuals. It is up to the personality to determine the methodology by which the whole consciousness will explore the idea of the relationship to the concept of abundance. But it is the oversoul choice to explore that idea.

Now there's any particular methodology ex if you have one methodology with that can you uh infer which concept that you're exploring when you if you look up in my life and I say well this is my the methodology I've chosen in this particular month or so to to explore a concept from that methodology can I infer what the concept is by using your imagination yes your imagination is the tool and the translation device and the bridge and the link between your physical personality and the oversoul self, the dream conscious you. Okay. Could you perhaps explain? I assume that drug addiction for example is a methodology that a lot of people are using right now. Yes. Can be for many reasons. can be for the individual to explore the overall concept of their own self-empowerment and responsibility and reliability on themselves without the idea of needing a tool can be the exploration of the idea of separation of the self and discovering many portions of the self hidden within the personality as you create those different levels within your consciousness and may find that this is a methodology for bringing some of them to the surface. You follow me? Yes. Many many many ideas can be being explored with that methodology. Oh okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you chairman.

I spoke to you last week about my living situation and you adise me to do suggest. We do not advise. We do not advise. Okay. Yes. As you suggested, I went to this particular house um the next day I found out that the the people who are buying the house, even if they buy it, right? Well, so just as we also suggested, did we not that this might be one of the possibilities? Yes, but there isn't there are no alternatives now. There was nothing. There are always there are many alternatives, I'm sure, but there were none. Oh, but not one I think I should have. Expectation upon your life path is what you are doing to yourself. Understand? If you realize there are always alternatives, the whole idea is allowing those alternatives to be the alternatives you want because they exist in your reality. If they were not the ones you chose, they would not be able to be perceived by you. You mean that the I mean there are no interruptions in your life. There is nothing extraneous in your life. There is no slop in your life. There is nothing that is in your life without a reason for being there. Is the purpose of all this to teach? It may be to teach you that you do not need patience if you are willing to enjoy your life and everything in it. Understand that if you are busy enjoying yourself, you do not need patience which then creates impatience. Need of patience is what creates impatience.

Now understand therefore that we suggest you allow what alternatives you can perceive to be the alternatives you chose to explore. And then you will understand that by dropping your expectation, you may allow yourself to see how one of these alternatives that does not seem connected to where you think you want to go may get you there quicker than any expectation you created because you will be busy enjoying yourself. As you say, time flies when you are having fun. You will not notice the passage of time. Things will happen very quickly. You will accelerate and lo and behold, as you say, you will find yourself at the place you wanted to be all along without ever having paid attention to exactly how you got there. You are going to put yourself on automatic pilot by enjoying your life as you create it. So, would you suggest that I just uh take whatever? What?

Allow me to suggest that you do whatever you feel like doing with whatever alternatives you have created and attracted to yourself. Follow your intuition. Follow your excitement. Follow your curiosity. All right? Then it will not be a difficult decision. You will be acting on your instinct. Follow me. It's up to you. Thank you. Yes.

Oh, white or white? Maybe two. Oh my.

Okay. Sometimes life is really fun. You know, you do something and I might think, well, gee, I like maybe what excites me the most is go to the beach. So, I do that and I have fun. And, you know, I was doing this for a while like seemed like every moment as soon as I finished one thing something else would excite me and it was just like rolling for like a week it's like every moment was thrilling was thrilling brushing my teeth whatever was exactly what I wanted to do at that moment yes then and then right now I feel a little disappointed because life doesn't feel that way it's like oh allow me to suggest that it's simply because you have now increased your scope of things of ideas of concepts and in this way you are still putting expectation upon what you are creating in the manner that you think they should be like what you experienced as joyful before. Yeah. Yeah. Recognize. If you allow yourself to recognize everything in your life as an opportunity, it will always be joyful whether or not you are actually experiencing or creating what you deem to be physiological joy during the experience or not. Yeah, there are many types of joy. Does not mean that you are not having a good time if you are not giggling at the top of your lungs. Follow me. Yeah, I follow you. I guess I just like, you know, I like to jump up and down, you know. I like Well, then feel free to jump up and down anytime you wish. Okay, you can, you know, no matter what you are doing. Yeah.

Okay. All right, then. Well, let me just add one more to that one because I was thinking like sometimes like I remember last week it was about 20 minutes when I was really bored and like nothing excited me you know why did you not listen to the silence there is much information in silence I guess I didn't I I don't know because you were judging the idea that that type of silence was not worth anything you're right could have been simply for the opportunity for you to rest could have been either all right somewhere

the other day a couple of weeks ago you were it was a Monday night channel and you were talking to a lady there was here but anyway you asked her a question and her answer was I am all that is and I've heard people say that I'm like what the hell does that mean you know exactly what it says well like when I look at it I don't look at myself as all that is why not because I feel more like a fragment I don't feel like all that is understand the idea do you of a hologram. No, I don't know what that means. In your society, the idea you call hologram is a three-dimensional picture. Oh, yeah. I know. Created by the device you know to be laser. All right. In this way, understand that it is created by what you call an interference pattern. That is it is a series of overlapping wave fronts that create a particular buildup if you will of image in a certain fashion that it is omnidirectional in nature. In this way you can take your hologram you can cut it in half and you will have two whole holograms not half and half because to a certain extent major portions of the hologram contain the information of the total hologram. In this way you can understand that the universe is like unto this idea holographic. The potential for every point in the universe to express every other point is equal. The potential for any object to exist at every point exists equally at every point. Every point is reflected in every other point. In your mythology, in the area you call ancient India, you have an analogy that is called Indra's net. It is a net made of reflective pearls. Each pearl being spherical 360° three-dimensionally and perfectly reflective will pick up an image of every other pearl in the net. Thus, it can be said that each pearl does contain the sum of the total net. Likewise are you and every being within all that is. Even though it is a fragment, it contains the potential of the whole. And because the idea of potential is only an expression in a time frame and to all that is time does not matter that much and everything is simultaneous. Then you can understand that to all that is and its point of view potential is real. You are all that is equally as much as you are a fragment of all that is. Paradox maybe. Yeah. But only from your perspective. Okay. Will that have clarified the idea to some extent? That clarifies it to a great extent. But I know I said I only had two, but I got another one. Oh, right. You know, I've been uh really attracted to read the New Testament these days. And I was I was reading it. Yes. And it was interesting. that I have a friend who comes by who's a Jehovah's Witness and we talk about it and I keep having the feeling that there's something there but it's not like I have a hard time believing that somebody would come to earth and say that you have to like believe in me and I'll save you from your sins and that being did not say that. Well, see that's what I wanted to know is if you knew because I had the feeling what I was reading wasn't what he really said and I was wondering if you could give me like a brief idea. Understand first of all that in what you know to be written literature representing what that specific being said or did not say all that which you possess in your society that comprises written literature is approximately no more than 20% of all that was said and much of what is written is not what was said but an interpretation of what was said based upon the understanding of the individuals who heard it. Understand in this way the being you refer to simply knew that like himself all beings were of the same level and could express the idea of the Christ consciousness through themselves as he had done. The idea is simply that as you allow yourself to be like this vibration that I am expressing to you, so you shall be like unto the idea of having what you turn to be heaven on earth. You will be of the vibration of that idea you call harmony. You follow me? Yeah, I get it. Thank you. Yes. Well, I want to uh thank you because this week's much better regarding my Oh, thank you. But there's a question I have about, you know, when one moment, please. Okay. Will you do me a favor? I don't want to stand up. No, no, no. You do not have to stand up. Realize even if I ask you to stand up, you do not have to stand up. Okay. However, this is a very small favor. Okay. Consists of three little letters, one tiny word in your language. Yeah. I have such and such as you say with my fears, not but and. Oh, okay. I get it. Thank you. So, and yes. Uh, I'd like to know, you know, like when your imagination goes wild sometimes, like I had fears and I'd see like all kinds of army coming into my house and, you know, killing me all kinds of ways. Yes. All kinds of ways. Yes. Killing you with kindness perhaps. No, I never saw that. Oh my god. There's an expression you have upon your planet. All right. Proceed. Okay. And um you know you have those pictures in your imagination. You have imagination in my pictures. Yes. And also when you have feelings about something. Yes. You have pictures to sometimes feel something sometimes. I regarding my fears you know that department of fears. Department of Very good. Um, how I'd like to know an exercise or something that could uh help me to see the difference between feeling something's going to happen really or I'm just letting my imagination going over.

All right. Now, do you remember or have you in this way allowed us to suggest to you the idea that we call the library analogy? I know the word but I All right. Simply this. All of the ideas, all of the pictures that you contain in your imagination are like a library full of books. You may always go into that library. You may sit there as long as you wish. You may read every book, good and bad, as you say, positive and negative, joyful and fearful, that exists within that library. You do not have to check them out until you choose to. You may simply know that everything you experience within your pictorial imagination is because you are willing on some level to experience that idea. Just because you are picturing it in your imagination does not mean you are saying that that is something you want to enact in your physical reality. The two are not necessarily connected. One does not necessarily I'll say forego the other. Okay. You can simply know that you are in your library reading all these fascinating books, positive and negative. And when you leave your library, what will be your physical reality will be the books you choose consciously to check out with you.

Thank you. Yes. Yes. Um if one does experience something in one's imagination, would the conscious knowledge that um one has lived out whatever that was in one's imagination. Would knowing that um alleviate the idea of needing to experience it physically? Yes, sometimes. Yes. Good. I have another question. I was watching uh KCT the other night and they had a program on um multiple personalities. One fellow there I think they had it 53 different personalities. Oh, very creative. Yeah. And uh the manifestation is each of the most of the personalities do not know of the other personalities. Some of the personalities so they would like you to believe right well the conscious manifestation yes yes we understand uh of course the belief of the scientists exploring this uh is that possibly it's multiple beings in the body which I think is not the case. Would you u care to comment on what what is actually occurring with this person? Much in the same way for the most part that many of what you call your psychologists think is happening. They are suppressing portions of themselves and that is the creative way they can allow them to rise to the surface and be equally valid to every other portion. It is then in this way their opportunity their methodology to believe that they need outside help. as you say the psychologist to allow them to integrate all these portions of their personality into one functional being. Okay. Well, we all have portions of ourselves, you know, various portions of ourselves that we some of us separate more than others. Uh but some of us are aware of these different portions without having to feel that there are that they are distinct separate beings. Simply in this way recognize that what they have not learned in this physical life is the method of communication between those separate portions. Not unlike uh the frequent inability conceived in ability of ourselves to communicate between our aware consciousness and subconsciousness and unconsciousness. Yes. And you may also understand the idea of multiple personality in this way. It is inwardly directed autism. Okay. You follow me? Yeah. Why don't you an autistic individual? Oh, I know. Yeah. is incommunicative to your outside world but very communicative to its inside world. Multiple personality individual is not communicative to its inside world but very communicative to its outside world. Multiple personality is almost directly opposite the idea you call autism. A neat idea, very creative. Yes. See all the multitudinous ways you have in exploring separation of self. Very creative. We learn a lot from you.

One moment. One moment. Female. Yes. You can share. I would like to ask you about my my new baby her name. And she was my sister contracted something called toxic plasmosis during her pregnancy. Lots and lots and lots of touching. Lots of loving. Lots of touching. Lots of mental communication. Lots of reinforcement. Lots of mental imagery of the child being able to communicate in whatever way it needs to. In whatever way it needs to, not how they think it should. Understand that many of these opportunities are opportunities for your society to explore new ways of communication. This is a service being done by this child. You follow me? Your acceptance and allowance of this service to be done will allow the parents to communicate fully with the child and the child fully with the parents and the society. This is the lesson being taught by the child. What you're saying to me only in a sense. Let us say potentially. potentially in the sense that if the message is not received then understand what it is a reflection of is the individuals not willing to receive the message their own limitation not the child's limitation

I as an American Indian I was a man and my wife and child were killed destroyed our village and my wife had been the person my sister and a couple days the child from that life was this child. All right. Do you have that? Do you think so? Only that the symbol being proofered now by the child who understands in having waited quote unquote until you were both physically born and into your later years before being born itself will be that it comes into your world with a greater innocence, less limited understanding of exactly what the quote unquote created problem was in that time. Lack of communication between two different worlds. You follow me? Lack of understanding. Understand the child. That is all that is necessary. Understand. Stand under. Support the child. Support the idea that the child is expressing and all the messages will be crystal clear. Don't fight. You fight the child. Thank the parents. for us.

Yes. Uh relating to what you were talking about before about letting yourself go and following your imagination and this is also related to judging others. Um if we as parents would let our children do whatever they want, I I really don't understand. We've got to teach them. Now this does not mean judging. This means preference. The teaching of preference as opposed to judgment which is an invalidation of something. Preference is not in this way. Simply recognize that there is obviously because of the physical limitations upon the mentality and the consciousness the opportunity for the training in this way of the child to a certain degree. But also recognize that much of what you quote unquote fear you must teach the child is because you have already many times not saying you specifically but in general parents already have taught the child to fear certain things. Yes. And thus in this way you will find that the child will be acting on some of those fears or reacting to some of those fears rather than simply being allowed by the parent initially from birth and before birth to recognize that the child knows already when it is born what it is doing in a sense. Right? But we still have to send them to school and we can't we can't let them play in the backyard. One moment when they want to play. But understand again, you are only giving as quote unquote excuses illusions based on illusions. What illusions? The idea in the way you have created the idea of going to school and the safety of your children is based upon the fear that you teach them when they are born. Yes. that this is the way it must be done because we fear such and such and such and such and such and such and you are creating a loop so that by the time they are doing such and such and such and say why you simply find the only answer to be because this is the way it always has been. I know but so with from your point of view how do you see the world to be the this planet to be in terms of education of children for example? In this way we can only again not tell you what to do but simply suggest by reference by analogy that within our society first of all we are in communication with the being before they are born. We know who and what they are and why they are being born into our society and we know they know it also. In this way their interaction with us is complete and total and in this way they are not isolated to be taught. They are allowed into the fabric of society to be taught. And in this way each child recognizes each adult to be his or her parents. Each adult recognizes each child to be his or her own in terms of the idea of the spontaneous interactions which take place. Yes, there is not the need for the tool of fear. Now recognize that by the time your child is able to be up and about by itself, it has already been programmed by you to know that limitation and know the fears that you have because it has to depend upon you for physical survival. It will accept anything you teach it vocally and nonvocally. Not really in its personality. Yes, it will completely. What would new parents on this planet should they do to change or what can they do? Allow themselves to know that they can trust that the child being born knows what it is doing. They can trust that their own connection to the child and the child's connection to them is never broken. They are always in communication and that the child and the parents will always sense what the other is doing and why and that the child will know instinctively and by receiving from the parents vocally and non-vocally its reassurance of its innate safety and assuredness in creativity that it will always only do that which will be positively manifesting for the child and not negatively manifesting for the child because it will not feel the fear from the parents that the child must react to. Follow me. Yes. Thank you. For you. Pleasure. Yeah. One moment. Back to the question about multiple personalities. Uh is there is there frequently cases where they're actually two beings are stuck together to one body? Not stuck. No one is ever stuck. In this way you may find there is an opportunity to some degree to experience this idea. Now allow me to point out that to a certain extent you are experiencing that idea right now. My consciousness and the consciousness of the physical channel form a third personality that you are interacting with. Thus you can say there are two identities that you are now communicating with that has become a third identity. In this way recognize all is by agreement. All is by synchronization of vibrational energy and each concept unto itself is a complete idea. It is not that what you are communicating with is half me and half Daryl. It is its own concept. You follow me? Yes. Um, but we wouldn't normally run into people who are aggregations of lots of personalities that were separate distinct beings. But you do all the time. All of you are aggregations of many different ideas. Yes. But not separate. Not derived from separate songs. Some Yes. Could you talk more about that? Why? What's interesting? Why? What is so interesting about it? That there are several oversouls that can be in one individual. Understand in this way the idea you call oversoul simply will carry within its own quote unquote revenue a series of reincarnational lives. An oversoul can split off and become another soul. And thus in a way individuals in one reincarnational cycle can actually have more than one oversoul in a sense. Understand that all of these connections are very arbitrary. They are all products of labeling, all products of diversification, all products of perspective. Especially from the third density point of view, they are all meaningful as tools, valid as perspectives to allow you to explore certain ideas and aspects of yourself, but on another level are all quite meaningless as all is one consciousness. Are you saying that one body would be the manifestation of two or more over over souls? It can be if the purposes of the oversouls coincide. What frequency or what percentage of the time does this actually occur on this planet? There is no way to translate that to you. Would you say it's rare or common? There is no way to translate that to you. All right. It is something which is beyond time. Okay. In general though, what we consider an individual being um manifesting in an individual body I think Ken's original question was uh two individuals of that nature inhabiting a single body or more. Is that correct, Ken? Yeah. Or 50 might be the case. Yeah. No, your case was all right. The case in my 40. Thank you. One more time. Allow me to say first of all, we understand the concept you are pro-authoring. But realize that from our point of view, the idea that anything can inhabit a body is a nonsequer. Recognize nothing can inhabit anything. Your soul does not really really really exist in your body. Your soul is your body. Your body is your soul from another point of view. Even when you see the idea of being out of body or seeing the soul leave upon death, physical death, this is an interpretation of the third density understanding of the separation of the self. Nothing exists in anything. Everything is everything. In that respect, then your entire reality, all physicality would be the same as what you're saying. Yes. And therefore it can be said and why your question cannot be specifically answered that you are all each and every one of you one thing and all each and every one of you everything and every personality that could ever exist. You are both you are at both ends of the spectrum. You are the spectrum. You are all personalities. You are all over souls. You are all spirit levels and alternate dimensions of density. All anything you wish to be. It is only a matter of perspective. How you see yourself? One moment. One moment. Yeah. Uh so you wouldn't find two spiritual entities jointly controlling the body or one mostly controlling the other one contributing your ideas in a general sense. All right. As we understand your question, allow me to say generally no. That will be of the most service to you as an answer. Thank you. Thank you.

Was there a male before the female? Yes. Then the female.

[Music] In one view or one perspective upon reality, quote unquote, is that that beingness is the underpinning or the basis for all that is. And that knowingness would be the first separation out of beingness. And that physical energy is a product of knowingness. Is this Yes, in a sense it will do. How then is it possible to channel as it were negative energy or re redirect would be a better word negative energy so that one would be able to heal. In other words, uh turn that that negative direction into a positive channel so that that you could heal either yourself or others by offering a positive vibration and allowing the individual who is expressing and offering the negative vibration to choose a positive vibration for themselves. In other words, offering to them through your knowingness, offering them the opportunity to allow positive energy and negative energy to be equal to each other so that they can choose from equal choices. Right? Okay. Or in the same way offering them the idea that they don't have to be trapped and that there's no decision to be made. Yes, there is in a sense a decision to be made. But but the decision is theirs. Yes. Okay. I have another question along another day. Um and the communications device um of the several stacked Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. I I would like to make mine out of copper and not use crystal. All right. Will that will that significantly change? It will change it to some degree. You may as we have suggested also substitute for the crystal at this time the substance you call teik wood tewood. It will allow there to be an appropriate insulator. While not expressing some of the ideas of the crystallin form, it will suffice to prevent a distortion in the field that would result if it were all copper. You follow me? Yes. Very good. The antenna then is to extend out of the top the full the full Yes. Okay. Does that antenna extend into only the top pyramid or through all three levels to the bottom? from the top from the base of the top out only in the top and the thickness of that that is that is a solid rod not not a hollow tube they are all solid rods thank you may you may

um I want to explore a little bit more about the idea of the experience of and the oversold um based on the idea that there really is no time at such there is in physical reality. Yes. outside of physical reality there there is the concept of time but it isn't experiential as you know it okay so we have let's say one individual here who's got um an experience going in this lifetime in the physical universe we know it now let's say that there are two or three oversouls who without being in the time stream and all experiences simultaneous would want to or benefit from that particular life experience, they could they not by a consideration um experience that lifetime as well. Yes. If it serves a purpose. Yes. Right. There can be many ideas which act as fulcrum points, pivot points for many different separations of the soul self. They can be common ground. You follow me? Mhm. The only thing that I found curious about that was that we all seem to be so so diverse, so unique. Yes. Because of our own experiences and our own accumulation of experiences in certain patterns and ways even though we're all basically one. All right. Understand that because this is also a transformation of life. This idea expresses more opportunity to exist now in your reality than it has before because you are now bringing together in this physical life many ideas which are focusing from many different alternate time tracks and over soul selves. The whole society. Yes.

proceed. Um, well, that was basically it. I was just looking at the fact that without without time consideration that any oversold of any kind. Why not? Why not? Why not? Thank you.

Is the over soul the same as the highest self? In a sense, it can function in that manner. You can also create a separated version of the higher self that has a specific attunement to any specific life. It will be then a fragment of another type like surely yes though it can be again very nebulous fine line between the idea of higher self and oversoul. They are basically one and the same thing. Okay. Yes.

Okay. Yes. Uh in Scientology there's Hello. Um in Scientology there's a concept called body thinking where in the idea of separate entities do theoretically inhabit a body along with the being that's supposedly running the body. And uh this idea involves a phenomenon which I'm not intimately familiar with but which I understand from a friend. Um he can he experiences what he believes is believing of one of these beings and he told me a story about one time when one of these beings supposedly left his body and the fellow that he was standing right next to perceived this phenomenon in such a way that he he had an personal experience some kind of sensation experience. Yes. Could you tell me what it is that they were actually experiencing? The sharing of their particular reality of their belief systems and thus the reflection of that in their physical reality. Is it not simple? This is how everything is done in physical reality. There are isolated miniature mass consciousnesses within the overall mass consciousness. You have your own belief systems within the one belief system, right? Of course. Well, I understand that. I was just curious as to what the phenomenon was that they were experiencing, the experience of their belief systems. Okay. Thank you. Oh, thank you. Yes. I have a question about our 11.

One moment. moment. It is their version of forming an integration in that belief system. You follow me? Translated into their symbology, into their archetypal symbology. What were they integrating? Their own personalities. Of course. That's interesting because in their concept they are getting rid of quote unquote something. You cannot get rid of anything. I know that. I'm referring to their belief. Yes. Give me a break. Bashar. Um, I'm aware of this and you know May I ask you a question? No, not yet. All right. Why did you take what we said personally? Because you know how I feel about this. You know what my understanding of this is. Why did you feel that what we said was an accusation that you did not because that's the way it came across. That is the way you interpreted it. All we said was a simple line, a statement. What was your statement? The statement in that way of the idea that we expressed to you. Okay. Well, regardless of the case, I know what the reality is. The question is, no, I forgot my question.

They feel like they're getting rid of something. Yes, I know they're not. Yes. So, what is the phenomenon when you say that they're integrating something? Um, it seems contradictory that they're integrating something when they believe that they're getting rid of something. You do not want me to. Yeah, I do. You just told me you did not. No, no, I did not. Yes, you did. Okay, I retract that. Thank you. Understand that you told me you understood. Therefore, what have we to explain to you? What I told you that I understood was that you don't get rid of anything. All right, then that is the answer. But they feel that they are. So what? What has that got to do with your understanding? I was trying to reconcile the idea of integrating something. Yes. Within the concept within the um context of their belief. Yes. Of getting rid of something. Yes. And we already gave you the answer. Okay. Then you will not. Thank you. One more time. Integrating can still take place even if you are giving the integration sometimes a separationist symbol such as quote unquote getting rid of something. Okay, it still can represent that you know you are integrating a portion of yourself within you but you are using terminology and a belief system that says you are actually getting rid of something to do it. Okay. Now why didn't you say that the first time? Because we already gave you that answer and you said you understood. You did not give me that answer. Did we give him that answer? Did we not say Did we not say it was their symbology, their symbology, their belief system, their interpretation of the integration? Yes. Then that is all we just repeated to you. It is an integration because they have made an integration but called it by another name. Okay. Their belief system calls it a separation. Okay. Well, the elaboration you just gave me resulted in a good degree of understanding. The first version did not. Yes. So, so, so why why would you expect me to understand something uh if I needed the or felt that I needed the elaboration to feel like I understood it? Thank you. Allow me to elaborate. Thank you. Recognize that when we gave you the line that caused you to feel we were accusing you of not understanding, it was at that point a timing prod for you to recognize that you came back to me and say I do understand and then in the very next sentence went on to explore the idea of not understanding. It was an opportunity for you to see how you also were choosing one type of labeling for another type of experience. Okay. Well, indeed I was um separating the concepts that I claimed to understand in that I was understanding one concept and not understanding another concept. It is all the same concept. This is what we are saying. You are making the polarization. When we said you do not get rid of anything, you chose to take it as an accusation that you did not know this. Yes, you did. Which allows you to realize that in choosing to interpret that as an accusation, you are now exploring the idea of not understanding. Okay? Which is knowingness. Okay? So what's your point? Simply that your reaction enabled you to understand that you were also creating the same kind of polarity that you were asking me to elaborate on that you said you did not understand. Okay. The polarity within that individual has now been experienced by you. So now you have an emotional understanding. Ah interesting. You follow me? Yes I do. Thank you for playing along. Thank you for playing along in that um you know some sometimes these elaborations really work. Yes. Now allow me to remind you you asked us to assist you in an emotional understanding of all these situations that you are discussing with us. Yes. Thus we prodded you so you could have an emotional experience of the idea that those individuals were discussing that feeling of something leaving the self and wanting to understand what was going on. Yes indeed. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You are welcome.

Um I wonder if you could elaborate on any possible past life connections that Wendy and I have had that might be valuable now. Nope. Thank you. I will be willing to walk through some with you if you are willing to lead based upon your own intuitions. Now, what do you think might have value or validity for you? And what were they? All right. And the other the other was in the United States. All right. Now, why in your feeling, in your imagination, in your wildest notions, do you feel that these two ideas hold meaning for you? All right, I'll give you a hint. Do you feel there are aspects of this present life that are reflecting some of the emotionalities you felt in those lives? Yes. That you are exploring certain portions of yourself in this life that you feel connected to the symbology that you acted out in those lives? All right. Go from there. All right. I'll ask you another question. Can that be enough for you? Um, can you allow yourself to know that these past lives do not control you in the present? Because in the present you are creating your past and your future. Yeah. Yeah. You can allow yourself to know that many ideas you call past lives can act as symbology for you simply to allow you to I'll say focus in on the ideas you are exploring in the present. There does not have to be any further connection than that. There can be but there does not have to be. Now how does the higher feel? Is it not quite satisfying? Maybe. Maybe not quite. I I do.

All right. Hold that thought for a moment. Each and every one of you explore your own facets as we go along. There is always something in this for everyone. Now allow me to ask you as we proceed. All right. Before the next step, can you hold on to this idea for a few moments of your time? You may all take a short break.

What we call the template vibrational signatures of your own consciousness as you look inward to the center of your own source of self. You follow me? Is there any particular way to trigger this? Yes. integration at this time in this transformational life can do this if you wish. It is a symptom of integration. Very good. Very good. All right. Great thing. Yes. Okay. Um so I should I should not worry about it. I It is our suggestion that you can enjoy it. Understand that disorientation is just that. Disorientation you are orienting to something new. Confusion is just that. Cousion. You only judge the idea of confusion to be negative because it unlocks you from the reality with which you are familiar. But understanding this way, you are giving yourself the opportunity to view many other ideas and realities within your overall total self. Thus for a moment you become unlocked confused. You co-fuse with all the other ideas of yourself and many of these expressions that you are experiencing are symptoms of this idea. So So you're saying that that they come from not separation. Okay. Integration. They came from integration. But then you also said that they came from confusion. Does that your definition of confusion is one of judgment and separation? We are redefining your idea con fusion with fusion, co-fusion, togetherness, integration. integration. Um, it's not there. It's not as good as it should be. And I was wondering if there's any Where is it, do you suppose? Where is it? I don't know where it is. Maybe you can listen with your other ears for it. Give it a try. give it a doing if my opinion well my opinion means nothing any help any help that I could get because uh from why not get the best help possible well you are the best no you are okay you are always your own best everything right now why do you suppose that you need to hear with that ear Uh because well it's best to be able to hear through both ears and oh all right in the same manner that it is balanced to use both sides of the brain. Mhm. All right. Okay. This is this is I'm not quite sure how to go about that together.

Tilt your head to the left side. How does that feel? What types of sensations in your imagination do you experience? Well, um, it's a little different because I guess I haven't been used to holding my head to the left side for a while. All right, put it back up straight. Now, tip it to the right side. Now what kind of sensations? All right. Straight up. Now look to your left. What kind of sensations? When you say something anything at all, anything your imagination gives you, picture, feeling, sensation, anything. It just it was it was light. It was easy to do it. All right. Now, look the other way. Making me have a headache. All right. Very good. Look the other way. Now what? I don't know. It gets pretty regular. Pretty regular. All right. Now, look back the other way again. Opposite left. You have the headache again. All right. Wait a minute. So that's why it was on the other side. All right. Now look straight ahead. Tip your head to the right one more time. How does that feel? A little heavy. Very good. Very good. Very good. Very good. Oh, okay. Okay. I'm seeing the correlation. It was light. It was felt light to the left to the right. Now go left. Tilt. What sensations? Stop right there. Did everyone notice she did the same thing twice? What was it? I'm ready. Thank you. Okay. Understand that in that way when you sighed you were centering yourself. You follow me. and you will release it. Now in this way give yourself the opportunity to also experience the same sigh when you tilt to the right. Go ahead. All right. Do it again. I think I force it. Do not force it. Now do it to the left. Do it to the right, left, down south side. Close your eyes and side. Open your eyes and sideigh. Put your head back and sigh. Put your head down and side. Stand up and turn around and sigh. Sit down and sigh. Put your arms out to either side. Do not hit the people next to you. Straight out to either side, level with the ground. Take in a deep breath and hold it. One more time. Put your arms above your head. Let it out. Put your arms out in front of you, level with the ground in. Hold it. Let it out. Now relax your hands in your lap. Sit straight and still comfortably. Breathe normally in a relaxed state. Turn your head to the right and left. To the left and right. Tilt your head to the right and left. To the left and right. Now close your eyes, right? Is there a particular pattern or are they random? They're kind of in a cluster. All right. Now, take that little cluster in your imagination and move it into the center of your brain. The very center of your brain. Do you see it nestled there in the darkness? All right. Let it be in the darkness. Let it be in the center of your brain in the darkness. Let the surrounding area be lit a little bit by the lights, but for the most part, let it go off into the darkness. All right? Can you picture this? Allow them to vibrate there, to glow there, to live there, to bob up and down serenely in their weightlessness in the middle, clusted together near each other in a little sphere. Don't you see that light? Yes. Now allow your imagination to assume that you are very tiny and you are inside the center of your brain right next to those little lights. Underneath those little lights, you are standing underneath those little lights floating above your head in the center of your brain. Look with what light there is available down your spinal column down the long shaft. Let it dwindle away to darkness. But what do you see? All light. Let the little lights allow them to remain but let them go out for a moment. Do you see any natural light coming through the spinal column? And if so, what color it? And I'm bringing it up. All right. But no, on all. Have you found something to explore in the dark? I don't know. What is the first interesting thing you got to do? All right. Are you all the way at the bottom? Oh. Or did you stop somewhere? Kind of floating. All right. What are you seeing? Are you seeing any things going off to the side, branching off? All right. What are you seeing? Just the kind of green the side. Do you hear anything? Little bells. How very little bells. Do you hear them all around you? Actually, I kind of like one. Would you like to keep on listening to those little bells anytime you want to? You are hearing them with your left ear. You enjoy hearing them with your left ear in this way. What do you enjoy hearing with your right ear? All right, one more time. Not a rationalization. Okay. What do you enjoy hearing with your right ear? Uh well when he said that I heard right very good. Now you are hearing the little bells with your left ear and the deep vibration with your right ear. All right. Will you allow the ears to exchange the sounds momentarily? Hear the bells with your right ear. Hear the deep vibration with your left. What difference do you feel? They kind of keep sliding back. All right. Good. Allow yourself then to simply know that you have chosen. You will integrate to some degree, but you have chosen to experience the ideas of the outward reality with one and the inner reality with the other. There are things you wish to hear in a certain way that if you are able to hear outwardly with both, you feel you might miss. Follow me one more time. It is a symbolic interpretation for you of the idea that there are sounds within your own consciousness that are very delicate and light and that if you pay too much attention to the outside world, you will not hear them. It will drown them out in a way that the fog horn will drown out the little bells if you let it. You follow me? Realize you are hearing exactly what you need to hear with each ear. They are simply turned in different directions, one out and one in. Now you may find that your left ear and your right ear will hear equally but they will be hearing in different ways in different realms, dimensional aspects, different densities. You follow me? Let yourself play with this idea for a while and you may find that a balance can occur in both directions. Thank you for partaking of a very lovely journey inside yourself. Would it be that I do this visualization? You have just made the suggestion to yourself. Okay. And lastly, final question is um me getting very enthusiastic about what I'm hearing. Understand that you do not need to expect them to change. You may share if and when the opportunity is attracted by you to yourself. You do not have to tell them anything. They do not have to hear it. It is for you to use. I just thought that if you blow out the same it can flow out by your actions in your vernacular. Yes. What? What? Don't do not be sorry by this vernacular. This concept is not being perceived. Share a definition.

There's a woman has channelneled information from Einstein a number of our scientists hanging out in a place called Aeros which is a planet that they've created. We see we are perceiving into another density altogether. All right. We understand this is why there was not immediate perception. What you are describing is taking place on another density. This does not mean that they have in this way completely manifested there. They are also many other places and some of them have reincarnated as well. What you are describing is a function an aspect of the higher selves of the oversoul of the spirit minds and in this way yes they do congregate in that way and there is a congregation of many consciousnesses within that idea but in this way recognize that it is a product of other density rather it is a product of quasi density so in a sense yes understanding this information. Yes. Another density.

Um the time which I received I really of course. Yes. What's the quality that you did? It is in this way something which is a fluctuating matrix between many different concepts. It is one of the areas that our civilization is still exploring and in this way has much to learn about this idea of quasiplar reality quasi density. Your civilization where you come from or both ours as well. One of the aspects that I'll say engages my civilization a great deal of the time that it spends exploring is the exploration of these quas plan realities, quasi densities, fluctuating matrix. What is their purpose? creation, perspective, different ways of doing things, different ways of seeing things, different ways of recognizing the self as the all that is that you are. And they're on a different plane than the third, fourth, fifth density and so forth. It does not really have a number. Okay. It but it's a separate thing in a sense. Yes, it is more of an interim state. Your language, it does not have the context. It is an interim state.

Sharing that will be Seven that will be in that way and then there will be a in a sense twist of the direction of the relationship up to 11 and then there will be another order of magnitude of direction to use that term loosely from that point forward as well. Yes, there are different magnitudes of 11. Again, this is an idea which our civilization is still exploring. But we find that in our early explorations we simply are aware that there are magnitudes of 11s. Each of which represents another idea, another over aspect of all that is each of those are in and of themselves entire multiverses. That is all right. In this area, we also sort of understand our own and part of the way they came up with that was they knew they needed x dimensions to contain the proper number of bosons to build this formula. Yes. is um so are are these different forms of energy that they use like the weak force and the strong force are they really um expansions into these different dimensions of the same fundamental energy it is all one energy yes it is all one energy you will begin to understand how it all manifests if again you add in the factor of vibration and consciousness. Follow me. Thank you. Thank you guys. Yes. I for sure this evening I'm perceiving many consciousnesses tuning in here tonight. I can feel them all over. Is do you have any uh information about simply at this time there is an opportunity for blendings on many different levels and it is a continuation of a perpetuation of contact with our civilization and many other civilizations with your higher mentalities as you continue the blending and the sharing which continues forever. You are simply all becoming more sensitive to it, to the everpresentness of the contact. You follow me? Yes. There is yes a bit of what you would call heaviness in the energy because of the sensitivity. You follow me? Right. Thank you. And one more question is is your uh is is December 12th still an AC or fairly accurate day? for a earthquake. Fairly anymore as here. Yeah, just uh is it do you have any more specific? Thank you for allowing yourself to expand into the future self to which we were talking. Sure. Sure. All right. You then work yourself around that way. Okay. Thank you. I missed Malibu about two months ago and I had a lot of um face contact in my dreams. Yes. Just very active area. Very active. It's so active that um I'm having trouble. Um you're having water. Well, not okay. I want to spend a lot of time in this [Music] con searching for money. Well, I'm going into my savings. That makes me a little uncomfortable. All right. Some individuals will choose to give themselves the opportunity of creating the symbol of reaching the bottom of the barrel so they will recognize every opportunity as being equal. You have an expression. The only way from here is up. Now, this does not have to be your symbol. However, you can recognize that that which you enjoy doing can bring you monetary support if it is required. If you are willing to be completely the idea of who and what you are, because then it will be a complete idea. And every idea when allowed by you to be complete always comes with all the ingredients necessary for the physical manifestation of that idea. And if money is one of those ingredients, it will be there automatically. If it is not there, you do not need it to be that idea. That's what I thought. So how will I know if it's required or not? It will be obvious. It will be obvious. It will be automatic. Right? It will simply come to you in the form of money or in the form of an opportunity which you will simply not fail to act on. Now if that is not say I see you are very interested in gems. Do you know a lot about them? I have some. All right. I like them. You like them? Well, I have. It just so happens by coincidence. Been looking for someone to run my gem store who knows a little bit and would like to learn more. Are you interested in the position? It pays all right. Could be that way. Why not? You never know. Are you willing to allow it to come to you through whatever door it can? Or are you going to put expectations and shut many doors and simply say, "I will not allow it to come to me unless it comes specifically through this door in this manner." Why sit around watching doors? Why not enjoy doing what you are doing and knowing all the doors are open simply assume that whatever has to come through them will? You cannot create an effect and leave a vacuum. Nature which is your automatic creatorhood will always supply you with a cause to support the effect you have created. You cannot create an effect of being an idea and not expect your physical reality to sit there and say, "I don't understand what you want me to do with this." It will always automatically serve you by attracting to you like a magnet all the opportunities, individuals, relationships and situations and objects that you require to keep on being the idea you are willing to be. If you are willing to really be that idea by acting like it, you follow me. I do follow you and that's a great answer. Can I ask you something about Mal and all the activity there? Depends. How will I know what I can ask you about it? I don't even know what to ask you except what's happening. I'm so active all the time. Many things so many spaceships and I see it etheically. I don't see it physically. Yes. But I see it almost all the time. It is being created by many of your civilization in this area you call Malibu to be a free zone. It is being created to be a free zone. What's a free zone? An opportunity for connection into many different dimensional levels of reality. All right. Grand Central Station, one of the subway terminals. It is being created by your mentality in your area, this area. Your willingness to explore the all that is that you are is opening up those opportunities for other consciousness to use that to also come into contact with you. To some degree, there are other areas. It is one of the strongest in your area.

Mer uh a question uh twofold on the line of uh gemstones. Um when using gemstones, each gem having its own particular rate of vibration? Yes. Can that rate be increased or enhanced by the faceting or the polishing of the stone or does it have the same rate of vibration in the rough? It is not quite the same application of the vibration and in this way symbolically you can say that you are changing the rate to some degree even though it will all exist within the signature vibration of the stone which is always there when it is rough or polished. I see. Okay. Uh another question. We have something here that we call um fiber optics. Are you familiar with it? Yes. Do you have occasion to use that in your civilization to some degree? Yes. Is it possible or is it being used right now to I notice it's being used for photographic purposes uh for uh lighting purposes. Is it being used in any way for transmitting thought vibration? Oh, very clever of you. Let me tell you, I came across a guy that created something on the lines of fiber optic. He calls it luminite. He doesn't even know what he has or all the applications. They're just starting to unfold to him now. Much like fiber optic where the light travels through it and comes out the end. This lights up like neon. It's the most incredible stuff that I've ever seen. What? And oh, wrong word. It It was wonderfully visually stimulating. Okay. But I started thinking about here we're using it for light trees, decorative purposes. If it were to be used as a direct feed line between mental uh telepathy that is that something that we we are practicing or your civilization is uh practicing telepathy. Well, not so much that the consciousness is being channeled uh through you through Daryl and it seems like a um a wide open area that it filters through. Now here you have something that can transmit light or transmit vibration. If it was used like from a person A to person B, would it increase or enhance that line of of vibrational telepathy? The it is your tool. Why not give it a shot? Now, allow me to suggest that you also use various forms of this idea in your experimentation, in your exploration. One of the forms will be some of this substance wrapped in the substance you call silk thread. Wrap it completely in silk thread and see what kind of effects you get. All right. All right. Uh I'm I'm not picturing that visualization. Wrap this fabric around silk or wrap the silk around this material. Can this material be created in cylindrical form? Uh what I saw, yeah, it was tubular. It was all right. Wrap silk thread around it its entire length say a 6 inch long beast and still utilize a light source. That's the thing what what fascinated me uh was the light. Now maybe you're you're thinking of something just utilizing it with with thought and not light. Is that you can utilize it with both? Okay. Experiment with different layers as well. Plain tube, wrapped tube inside, plain tube, inside wrapped tube, so on and so forth. 11 layers. But in the same way that uh with the fiber optic uh the light source from beginning is the same light source from the at the end. Would that also be the uh same case for a thought vibration in a sense? Yes. Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. Yes.

The uh one moment. Which one of us? Mayo. Bendy mail. Okay. The uh car that I used to frequent well that I still um I was over to a lady's house a couple of weeks ago and she showed me the picture of that park. was the uh an occurrence of an earthquake here, a fairly large one before I arrived. And this is the part that I get into my thing at, you know, or thing. Yeah. Um uh when I'm when I'm sort of experiencing somewhat of a state of grace or whatever. Nice. And uh apparently that that park is called Veterans Park. And uh that's where the hospital crumbled years ago. And uh I'd like to know if you perceive uh a lot of beings hanging around or there seem to be a few. Yes. It's something awfully magical about it. And it never occurred to me that that's what was happening when I that I was being talked to or trying to Now what are you talking about? Well, just basically the uh just a matter of every time I go to the park, I don't care what's happening that euphoric feeling. Uh I don't know whether it's just me or if I am receiving some radiation from It is both. Is it? What do you wish to communicate? Well, actually, just the fact that I want to know if that was in fact happened. I mean to them. Oh, I'd like to be able to talk to them when I get there. What do you wish to communicate? If you want to talk to them, I will assume you will have something to talk about. I'd like to know if I can service them in some way. What do you want to talk about? I have not decided that. All right. How about letting them know that with your unconditional love they can go where they will. Okay. Something on that line. Yes. Then give them your unconditional love. They will feel your communication and it will allow them to understand what they are doing. Okay. Great. Thanks.

[\h__\h] you, guys. Oh, yes. I'm sure.

Um, I've been stuck in the tail end of an expectation. Stuck. Stuck. Stuck. Stuck. Yeah. Worse than that. No. Worse. Worse than stuck in the tail end, no less, of an expectation. long. Well, I was wondering in India 13 years ago when I was traveling there, I had a prophecy on my life. I did get into the game of it and most of it has come true. And the guy back then said I go through a period of a lot of trouble. Now I'm in that now. All right. The thing is year after year I want this to end. And I thought, well, all this is happen. I might as well go for the good part, which is a very happy marriage and a published book. And a psychic in New York told my agent before she ever met me about me in the book and all these things and everything's happened, guys. But the trouble does not stop. I mean, I trouble and as far as happy marriage bills go, all I do is collect divorces and [Laughter] may I ask you a question? What's the question? [Music] Are you saying that that is the trouble? I don't you know I don't know what the trouble is. I keep You don't know what the trouble is but you know you have it because it keeps How can you know you have trouble? It keeps happening if you do not know what it is. How do you know it is trouble if you do not know what it is? Cuz everybody tells me it is. So what? Oh, what do you say it is? Is it really trouble? Oh. Oh. Oh. Well, it could appear that way. Um, could appear that way? Yeah. Yes, it could. That's not what I asked you. Well, to me, yes. All by myself? Not really. Well, then I mean, it is a little bit. It could be disastrous. Could be. Could be. Could be. What if? What if? What if? Well, I just can't see the the actual marriage thing. The actual marriage thing. Yeah, I was certain I meant the Oh, the Oh, the I want to get in from you. The guy. The guy. Well, I mean for for me. The guy for you. For a happy marriage. May I let you in on a little secret? Yeah. They were all for you. Oh, well. Well, that's true. Yes. Is it not obvious? Oh, I see. You know what? Um, yeah, but yeah, but what? Oh, oh, oh, yes. Oh, yes. Oh, the the the ideal marriage, such and such, this way, that way. Expectation. Expectation. Yes. What do you think you will have in a marriage that will last your entire lifetime that you are not getting out of relationships that serve their purpose within their own timing? Um um constancy. What? Uh continuation. Continuation. You will not continue. Pardon? You will not continue. No, I will. I just mean the the Why should anything outlive its purpose? Yeah, but I don't know why I do the purpose of getting pregnant again. I just I just I Maybe he like being above. Yeah, but Yeah, but I've gone eight years without a husband being a mother. So, it's really getting old. Well, maybe. So, I just always May I ask you another question? Yeah. Oh dear. Do it for you. Oh darling, dear. Oh, darling. All right. Do it for you. That you need a relationship to feel complete. Not all the time. All right. Not all the time. Then that is why you do not have a relationship all the time. But understand this. The idea of knowing that you are already complete and are serving the purpose you chose to be physical for will allow you to enjoy the relationships that you create for the reasons you create them and not for the expectations you put upon them which does not allow you to enjoy the relationships that you actually attract. Oh. Oh. For me, this expectation thing is really in the way. The expectation thing is what you are exploring. It is showing you how. You are simply allowing yourself to not realize that the relationships you have created are the relationships you wanted to create to give you what you wanted. Oh god. Okay. Yeah. Well, that makes sense. No, allowing yourself to know this will allow there to be an opportunity for, if you have made an agreement to do so, a single individual to share, not need, but share your life with you in that way. It is a potential for you. Yeah, that that is a thing I've Whoa. One moment. At least I haven't read across that person. One moment. If you keep on trying to find it, you are reducing the potential of it occurring because you are not allowing what you are experiencing to be validly getting you there. Oh, I get it. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Okay, I understand. Thank you. Thank you. For sure. For sure.

You you you

this is my first time here and along with a few other people from what I gather. Um where do you come from? Oh many places all wide. Thank you. Our civilization our planet approximately 500 of your light years distant. We call in our language Esasani which means place of living light. We are in our physical form approximately 5t of your height, very slender, white whitish gray skin. We are in a sense not quite in your dimensional aspect. Thus, you cannot perceive our star. We are of a different vibration to some degree. Thus, we are not visible to you as a star system. We are a portion of the overall consciousness that is your planet, our planet and the planet that orbits the star you know to be serious. We are a trinary triad consciousness each an aspect of the other sharing in the overall understanding and expansion of ourselves by interacting. Will this have answered your question? All right. What else? Um now you communicate to this or do you communicate with other? Yes. Okay. Have you ever heard of this word before? Ashtar. Yes. Could you explain on that or go into that? It is one of the representational names that you have created in your vocabulary for a certain density of consciousness that is in connection as many civilizations are with your civilization and assists in the transformation you are making from third to fourth density upon your planet. Now you okay I don't quite understand. So um it is a group of beings if you will though that is not literally accurate that are in contact mentally with your civilization to assist you as we are assisting you and many other civilizations are assisting you in your transformation from where you are into higher awareness. There are however some misinterpretations about what they are going to be interacting with you about. Simply there are many individuals upon your planet who regard them as someone who will still take responsibility for you. They will be saviors which they are not. like take us off the planet burning ship. Yes. Go into that a little bit further about spaceships and what you saying and taking off. The idea simply is that you do not need rescuing. You will have the opportunity to form an identification with many civilizations to the extent that you can experience the parallelizing of your planet. In a sense, the creation of a fourth density state in which it may appear that certain things do not affect you physically in this way. It will seem as if you are removed to another state, another density, but you have made this removal yourselves in concurrence with your willingness to be of equal vibration to the civilizations which you are reflecting to yourselves in our appearance to you. In this way, it is not a literal removal of the planet. It is symbolic in a sense. You have made it symbolic because your mentality has only been able to interpret the idea in a symbolic physical fashion. You are not being saved. You are being identified. And in that way, you are allowing yourself to recognize the identification of another vibration of another reality, another potential existence. And you are identifying with it. And by synchronizing, by harmonizing with it, you will find yourself in fourth density state. Having been in a sense removed from the third density world, into a fourth density state. Is that what we're in presently? A third density. You are in the transition from third to fourth. Yes. What density are you? We have aspects in third, fourth, and fifth. Okay. Now, people Okay. I want to ask you a question about myself. People tell me I have an energy about my person. Now this is a different cultures of people has told me this. They tell me I can use it for good or I can use it for bad. So can anyone but allow me to elucidate first of all the concepts you call good and bad are your own creation. There is positive and negative energy. Yes. There is positive manifestation and negative manifestation. Yes. Good and bad are qualifications. They are judgments. All right. You can, as anyone can use their own godhood, their own self-empowerment for positive or negative manifestations. Of course, which do you prefer? Whatever is necessary at the time. Whatever is necessary. Well, all right. Now, this has been done for the last 25,000 of your years upon Earth. In this way, your choice of experiencing the idea that it is necessary to experience negative manifestation in order to feel like you deserve something. No, I didn't mean it. All right, then understand that whatever is necessary is what you prefer. The idea at this time of the blending of the transformation is that you can find that it is no longer necessary to suffer in order to know that you do deserve happiness or peace of mind. Same thing.

Now you know uh coming here what is the purpose? Okay. I'm here to find out to hear what you have to say to listen. No, you are here to hear what you have to say. I am here to hear what I have to say. Yes. We are being allowed by your civilization to reflect to you what you already know. We are only reminding you of what you already contain within you. You are allowing us to waken you to yourself. Now how would a person go about expanding their mind into uh let's say another plane? You are expanding your consciousness. Your mind a product of your mentality is a product of your personality which is not who nor what you are. Your personality is an artificial construct that your consciousness uses as a tool to express itself in the physical world to serve a certain purpose. And your personality shifts all the time as you change the idea of yourself as you expand into different awareness of yourself. The idea of going into different planes is simply allowing yourself to become more aware of more of yourself since you already exist on every level that there is because you are the creator. You are all that is. Okay. Now you have a conscious and a subconscious. The idea of conscious, outer aware consciousness and subconscious and unconsciousness are all physical, personality, mental manifestations which have nothing to do with your knowing consciousness which is non-physical. These are tools. They are ideas. The idea that you have a separated consciousness is what creates the effect of a separate consciousness. In reality, you are one consciousness. And this idea of this transformational life is to allow you to know that you can act as if you are one consciousness. In many ways, the idea of having a sub and unconsciousness has only been an excuse to not look at certain portions of yourself that you fear to look at because you were separating yourself from the all that is that you are. That comes from training from the child. Understand in this way it is simply a habitual ritual in the 25,000year cycle to impose the idea of a separation of your consciousness into outer sub and un in this transformational life. You will understand that you can blend them to such a degree that you will know nothing in your outer aware consciousness is hidden from you. And you will find that the children now being born upon your planet may realize this a little sooner than the adults do.

All right. Um, okay. Let's go in. Okay. A little further. Oh, what? Um, let's Okay. Like our con my consciousness talking about myself. Let's put it to me there. My consciousness now and awareness is what I see, hear, feel physically. All right. All right. Now, when I take and put myself in a state of blocking out my physical feeling. Yes. Okay. And going I don't know what I'm doing to be frank with you, but All right. You are actually expanding. You are actually integrating. You're not really blocking. Okay. Well, you are including Yes. You are focusing in the center of your consciousness. All of it. Yes. All of it. All of your consciousness. The source of yourself. Yeah. Okay. Um I don't know what I'm trying to say. Um all right now for example all right you go through different stages when you go through this process or I didn't All right very good go ahead and some individuals do not well okay for instance like I noticed one of the people here mentioned the lights the colors yes okay for instance I use that also along with this like you also pyramid you mentioned yes going through the center of the pyramid to the point top. Yes. All right. Then I go through color changes. Yes. And when you reach a certain peak, I've only been able to reach a certain peak and then I totally snap out of and come back to what I call reality. Yes. Um what would you s suggest? First of all, that you can simply realize that what you are doing is only your version of your tool, your imagination. It is for now what gets you there, what works for you. It will change as you change the idea of yourself. Every tool that you create is valid for you because it comes from your imagination which is specifically tuned to your consciousness to provide you with the necessary rituals and tools and ideas to allow yourself to explore the integration of your consciousness in whatever manner you have chosen to do so in this physical life.

All right. Now you keep on mentioning um your creativity of your mind. You say keep creating. Okay. Now I know the mind is very powerful. Yes. All right. Um it creates your physical reality. All right. Does it create your lost words right now? All right. Your consciousness, non-physical consciousness, projects itself into the idea you call physical reality and thus creates a mentality or a mind which is a physical version of your consciousness in order to perceive the physical reality that has been created. But it is the mind that creates the physical reality, the physical reality that creates the mind. Without one, there is not the other. What about the spiritual part? What about it? Well, is that part of it also? Yes. And it also extends into the non-physical universe as well. It is the driving energy of your existence. That is your spirit. Now your physical mentality gives rise to what you call your outer aare ego consciousness, your subconsciousness and your unconsciousness. But those ideas are only physical. And when you become non-physical, when you are either out of body, as you say, or you physically die, those concepts no longer exist for you. You are one knowing consciousness. You follow me? Yes and no. All right. I follow you up to a certain point. My knowledge. All right. Now, understand that you understand this perfectly on whatever level you need to and you understand it experientially when you sleep because in your dream reality, that's what I was talking about. dreams. Your dream reality is in a sense really more of the real awake you because there is more of you present in the dream state. Yes. The physical reality is more the limited focused dream. The dreaming you is more the real expanded aware of all of yourself you. And that is why anything is possible there because you are the creator. You are all that is. Your imagination is the tool that is the bridge and the link between the dreaming you and the physical you. both of which are real, but simply are experiences of a different nature according to what you feel you wish to experience for your own understanding and balance of yourself as a being.

There's been people say that there's spaceships coming to Earth. There's different people on Earth living on Earth from other planets. What do you have to say about that? There have been many spacecraft that have come and gone. There are many spacecraft around your planet right now. From time to time, there have been beings that have lived upon the surface of your planet that are not from your civilization. As of right now, there are very few. But there are some. Why are there so few? because it is an opportunity for you during the time of the transformation to claim your own civilization. We are not going to interfere in your awakening. We will assist, but we must assist without interference. And this means from afar in a sense. What about when there were more? There was in times past more awareness of your own ideas of origin. Recognize no one is in a sense natural to your planet. Is there a time span in years that the transformation will take place on Earth? It is occurring within the span of what you call the next 30 to 50 years as the fulcrum point. From that point forward, you will be in fourth density and all of its various I'll say growth rates. Will everyone on this planet be in everyone you will be able to perceive? Yes. Those that are not, you will not see them anymore. What about Earth? What about the planet itself? It has a third and a fourth density aspect just as it also still has a second density aspect that you call aiel. Is that a record or no? Will this occur it at one time or will it occur in a general sense? Some individuals will experience it as you say suddenly. Some will experience it as a gradual thing but all will recognize when you are well within it. But not everyone's going to go to that state at one time. It'll be like as the individual is in that state in an overall sense. You will all reach it in the same time. Even though because you are all individuals, you will have slightly varying rates. As a mass consciousness, you will reach it at the same time. Now our bodies right now we have bodies that are operating at a third density. They are half and half. So what's going to happen? Like let's say an entity, a being goes into fourth density. You will still perceive for quite some time in fourth density that you have a body. However, you will start to notice many different things about it. You will start to understand you can see the energy form of your body and the energy surrounding your body in oric fields. You will understand as it becomes a lighter and lighter light body that as you progress through fourth density towards fifth that you will not require it anymore at all. You will allow yourself to remove the tools and the ideas you call disease. And you will because of the idea of yourself has expanded within your type of physical reality also increase the longevity of the physical form. What I'm trying to say is like let's say in this lifetime a person were going to density while he was in this body in the particular body that he had. You will all of you will. So what's going to happen to the body? I mean it will change with you. Okay. What will happen to the uh entities or beings that will not go to the fourth density that we won't see anymore? They will stay in third. Oh, I see. Because they can't evolve. That's it is their choice. So in other words on on the surface there will be there will be understand you are creating a parallel reality just as you do not experience the second density level beings walking among you except as quote unquote ghostlike apparitions from time to time when your senses extend that far. You will not experience third density beings any more than that and they will not experience you in the same way you do not experience fourth density beings now except as ghostly apparitions from time to time or fifth density or sixth or seventh or all those other ideas. You are operating on various rates of vibration in much the same way as you have a spectrum of light and there is light you can see and light you cannot. It is all right there. Some of it you can perceive and some of it you cannot but you coexist. What will happen to the animals? They will change with you for sure. Yes. Um, okay. For Okay, you mentioned ghosts or other beings or ghosts. Okay. Yes. Say for instance, um, I've had this happen to me on several occasions. Uh, say I'm driving down the road and I pull off this side and I've avoided an accident, quite a few car accidents. Yes. Or changed my mind. Instead of going to this place and decided to do something else, what could you uh put that to? You are with your mentality choosing the particular methodology by which you will deal with what your overall consciousness says you will deal with. But there are many different ways that you can deal with it. And you are simply recognizing that you have a choice and you are making it rather than through separation and suffering perhaps through integration. You follow me? Yeah. Do you follow me? Yes. All right. Okay. I didn't quite follow you. All right. You are saying that you have what you call precognition of an event and avoid it. Exactly. Understand you have precognition of many probabilities. All of those are equally possible for you to experience the event in that way. You are making a conscious choice avoiding or you are saying I prefer this method of dealing with that situation rather than that method. You follow me? Yeah. Okay. Can you tell if a person um has been here before? Can you tell you have all been here before? Okay. You know we Okay. Reincarnate is what world we be. Yes. Correct. Yes. Do you know how many times or can you do you have the knowledge of that? It is different for everyone and it will depend upon the interaction that we have emotionally with the individual. More often than not, we will not be able to pinpoint it specifically. But allow me to suggest that in a general frame of knowledge, you have all had at least several hundred if not a few thousand lives. In this particular idea you call your reincarnational cycle on your planet earth. This does not count all the alternate parallel ideas of lives that you have had and have right now and other dimensional ideas of yourself. We are simply talking about the specific time frame that you call the planet earth in what you recognize to be history and slightly before that idea. Each of you have had many hundreds to many thousands of lives. Some have had far less. Some have had far more. But the average is somewhere in the neighborhood of a couple of thousand.

Somebody I've talked to like yourself says that uh there's good there's good powers and there's bad powers. Positive manifestation negative manifestation. It is a choice. They said that it comes in looks the way they explained it was white power and black power. All right. But understand they are using symbology. That is all they are doing. Symbology for negative and positive. Yes. The idea is that you always are going to contain both positive and negative energy. That is what the universe is made of. It is your choice on what type you wish to express. You follow me? Yes. That is all there is to it. When you allow the choices to be equal, then you can choose what you prefer. When you assume the idea of good and bad have to struggle with each other, you are then giving more energy to the idea that this black bad evil power is something you have to fight. And you are saying that it has more potential to overwhelm you than you have to fend it off. You are creating the idea of a struggle rather than simply knowing all right I contain positive. I contain negative energy. I can choose which one I wish to manifest. I choose positive. Thank you. Do I choose negative? Thank you. That is all there is to it. And you can change your mind a thousand times a day. It is that simple. There is no need to mystify it in that way. No great struggles. There are individuals who choose to exemplify the idea of negative energy and individuals who choose to struggle against them and vice versa. But all of those things are being acted out because of judgments upon the idea of simple positive and negative energy and what you prefer. had this time. Allow me to say that we will thank each and every one of you for the sharing of your consciousness and allow us to remind you that you always have our unconditional love. And we recognize I will say we choose to recognize that you in whatever you are doing are also exercising your unconditional love in so doing. In this way your civilization, our civilization and all the civilizations that are in contact at this time with you.