---
heading: Part 2
title: "Self Created Journey"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1985-01-27
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
tags: ['channeling', 'reincarnation']
---



## On Channeling and Past Lives

Now also you will find that many many individuals who in your terms channel physically have, when they are in contact as you say with other consciousness, have for the most part made an agreement to do so before this physical life. That is not to say you cannot make that agreement if it is necessary for you during your physical life. But it is rarer in your terms. You will find that the understanding of connection will have been accomplished. The agreement will have been made when in your non-physical form so that your sense of timing would be very clear and understood. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. Do you have another question?

**Questioner:** Yes. I was contacted yesterday by Michelangelo who I worked with in the past life, helped a great deal.

**Bashar:** Realize first of all that only partially is that in a sense in your terms too. Realize that you have within your own higher consciousness all of those abilities which when in your thoughts translated backwards into physicality are represented to you by that physical symbol. Do you follow me? Yes.

Now I will say that that particular in your terms individual does carry a great many physical individuals under his wing. In other words, he allows his energy as a guide to touch many individuals upon your world. And you have the ability, yes, to tap into that idea. However, realize that in the process, it is for the purpose of allowing you not to rely on another consciousness, but to recognize those abilities within your own. Any entity in spirit form will never, ever, ever live your life, answer your questions for you. They will always be very willing to let you know that you have the exact same abilities and you may identify with them in that way. But they will always wish that you view yourself as an equal companion, as an equal creator. You will taste the flavor of their consciousness. You may recognize the flavor and atmosphere of their personality within their wishes for you. But always, always, always allow yourself to recognize when it is also your own abilities coming forth with those fountains of information.

**Questioner:** That answered it. Thank you.

### On the Ashtar Command

**Questioner:** Yes, I have a question. Are you familiar with the Ashtar Command?

**Bashar:** You will find that there will be variations of that idea that do exist. However, I will say that there is in a sense a conglomeration of ideas within the one you are expressing, so that it does not except I'll say to... Oh, all right. 60% accurate representation comes across in terms of physical translation. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** Somewhat. I don't know about the 60% translation.

**Bashar:** In other words, you will find that there are in a sense what you term to be councils, linkings, organizations in your terms, types of what you would understand as federations, organizational bodies which will have in a sense not dominion over but simply organization of certain areas of interaction between various civilizations. You will find that that idea will carry some of that reality within it but parts of it are in a sense in your terms fictionalized. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes, I do. The reason I'm asking you is that in a handbook that I've read, they have stated that they had implanted different ideas in people because they felt that it was welcome or receivable by different individuals like Edison or Michelangelo or any of those types of people in their dream states, and the person would conceive it as their own idea which implies a sort of control there.

**Bashar:** There is no control. As you said, even in your own words, those that were willing and ready to communicate realized that at the time of the communication itself, that individual is fully aware of exactly the communication they are having and with whom they are having that communication. When they allow themselves to reemerge into physical reality, the same idea of limitation imposes itself, and in a sense you forget where it came from. I see. However, recognize that also there is to a great degree simply a concurrence that that individual has already reached a similar idea, and so in the dream state find themselves attracted to other individual consciousnesses on or off your planet who have already also achieved a similar idea. There is only a concordance, not an implantation. It is in a sense a type of well, referring. Then they bring that idea and implement it into your physical reality. There is no in that sense implantation, no control. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** Oh yes. Thank you.

### On the "Son of Sam" and Responsibility

**Questioner:** On the same line as this character in New York, he was called Son of Sam and he went around killing people and when he was arrested and all that, he said God told him to do it in very explicit terms, I guess. Who is God?

**Bashar:** Realize that many individuals, when they will not take responsibility for their own power, will project their consciousness outward into a seeming disconnected powerful personality. They can create very, very, very strong semblance of in your terms reality round and about that projected consciousness and feel then that they can in a sense do whatever they wish without being responsible since they have removed that idea of responsibility onto something they consider to be greater than themselves. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** Absolutely. Thank you.

### On the Dream State

**Questioner:** You've mentioned many times this dreamlike state. This is while we're sleeping. Yes. Also, the dream reality is ongoing. I don't understand.

**Bashar:** You may think of it in terms of a parallel existence which is in a sense the blueprint for your physical existence in very many ways. Really, if I may use your terminology, right now you are far more asleep than when you are dreaming. This is a focused dream with in your terms self-imposed blinders. You are living one dream. When you are in the dream reality, you are experiencing all dreams. Therefore, you are in a sense perceptually far more aware and so in your terms far more awake.

**Questioner:** So, we mocked up this idea of being asleep for a particular reason that we're going through. Yes. So, here we are sleeping, wanting to be awake, and then we're awake wanting to sleep. Yeah. I don't understand that.

**Bashar:** Because you are trying to make too much of it. Simply realize once again that part of what you are experiencing as a problem of expression is simply that when you chose to exist in physical reality by choosing certain ideas of limitation, of restriction in order to express and experience another path of becoming more self-aware, you included within that path that inability to relate to that idea. In other words, you have limited yourself on purpose away from the idea of being able to understand both sides at the same time. In other words, paradox is very, very, very livable in a non-physical universe. In a physical universe, it is not. And so seems confusing. Yeah, that is partly the purpose: to experience the idea of two sides which cannot coexist. And yet you know they must. And this spurs you on to discover more about your own awareness. Realize that when you allow paradox to exist within your life as you can more and more, then every time you experience the idea of paradox, you will know it will be in a sense a clue that you are dealing more and more and more with your higher consciousness. There's simply one more creative way of creating. Allow yourself to simply live.

**Questioner:** Got it. Thank you.

### On Immaculate Conception and Grown Spaceships

**Questioner:** I have two questions. One, is it possible either on this planet or other planets for a woman to conceive a child with her mind, not needing the male?

**Bashar:** In very rare circumstances, it will take a great deal of, I'll say, acquiescence from the overall mass consciousness. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** I don't know exactly what that means.

**Bashar:** Realize that the collection of consciousness upon your world altogether can be viewed as a mass consciousness in and of itself with its own self-aware identity. When that self-aware mass consciousness recognizes purpose, then it can allow any of its in a sense consciousness components to achieve what you have said by supplying the necessary energy.

**Questioner:** That's interesting. Thank you. My other question is I have been told that on other planets where they have spaceships, they don't make or build spaceships the way we build cars here but they actually grow them the way a crystal can grow.

**Bashar:** Some yes, some not all. It will depend again upon their own degree of awareness, their own self-imposed ideas upon their reality, and what they have chosen to experience. You will find really quite a variety of methods, depending again upon level of understanding. Some of which in your terms would seem quite like magic. Realize there are civilizations in a sense who do not even require what you would recognize in any way, shape or form as a ship.

**Questioner:** Yes, they can just teleport themselves among things.

**Bashar:** Yes, that's fascinating. Thank you.

### On Paradox, Neutrality, and Weather

**Questioner:** In looking at this idea of paradoxes, good and bad and various opposites, sometimes I'm very puzzled by the idea... I myself choose to follow things which are good or pleasant or beneficial for myself and others. And then there's times when I look at that and I say, well, if everything is equal, what difference does it make?

**Bashar:** To a sense, none. But you will find that you may simply allow yourself to use that moment of I'll say neutral gear to realize that your own center is capable of allowing you to create at that moment whatever you wish as a reality. In other words, you may get into the spirit of creation. At that moment, you will not need to pursue any particular path. You may create a new one from scratch, if you will. Do you follow me? Yes, I do. It will only go as far as you are willing to allow yourself to believe that you have that much power. As long as you remain unwilling to view that idea in terms of expression of your own creative power, you will remain in neutral. You might even in a sense slip back into gear on one path or another and travel a little further until you feel comfortable slipping out again. All right. Thank you.

**Questioner:** Is the weather patterns on our planet a common denominator of the mass consciousness?

**Bashar:** Very good. Thank you.

### On Planetary Axis and Nuclear Annihilation

**Questioner:** Is this planet being kept from tilting too drastically off its axis by off-planet?

**Bashar:** Oh, with the help of only in a very very remote sense. There is no need for us to watch that which you are taking care of. Again, you know your own cycles very well. Realize that there is only in a sense only one area in which we in your terms would interfere at all in your society, and only one. And that would be the complete and total annihilation of your society if it were to affect other dimensions of reality, and only if.

**Questioner:** Why is a nuclear holocaust particularly bad to the various dimensions?

**Bashar:** You will find that in your terms the physiological and psychic ramifications would be very far-reaching. Also your particular planet in its present position occupies in a sense a vortex point or very close to it enough so that it would have in a sense feedback through an opening. Do you follow me? Yes.

### On Levels of Awareness

**Questioner:** We have different obviously different levels of awareness in different areas if you could say that. Who is the most aware being or group of beings that you know of upon your planet? No, everywhere, anywhere.

**Bashar:** The most aware? Is this a contest? No, they win. Well, I'd like to get an idea how far advanced or how far so that you will know for yourself that you have to struggle a long time. So you will feel even more insignificant. Well, I'm just kind of curious. I was just kind of curious if they could match me.

**Bashar:** Really? Oh boy.

### On the Asteroid Belt

**Questioner:** Was the asteroid belt once a planet? Yes. How long ago did it become the asteroid belt? In terms of time, as you reckon it, it was several million of your years ago. You will also find that it once occupied the orbit now occupied by the planet you know as Mars and vice versa. They exchanged orbit. Yes. That is why you will find there was life upon that planet. It was well within the zone of life within your solar system, being the third and fourth planets. Do you follow me? Yes, also that is why we will make sure that does not happen again. But I will tell you that within four of your years ago, your mass consciousness together decided that that would not happen. In other words, why we would not allow that to happen? You have already taken the responsibility out of our hands.

**Questioner:** Was that reflected directly in the presidential election of '80 in this country, that kind of new awareness and self-validation that came about with Reagan's election?

**Bashar:** You will find that your idea in a sense but not as you think it. Your idea of what you turn to be, your government, has been created by you much in the same way that we spoke of that individual creating the consciousness that told him to go and do these things because you have not accepted your own responsibility for your own field. And so you create the idea of organizations to handle that fear for you. So you will not have to deal with it. Realize that once you create an organization based on fear, it will try to keep itself alive as any consciousness will. And if it is created by fear, what will it have to create to live? Fear. Take back your fear. Be responsible for all of your emotions and you will not need them.

### On Hitler

**Questioner:** Was that the role of Hitler for Europe? To a degree, although there was much in the way being acted out again in terms of knowing that fear that a certain idea will occur is the same thing as believing that it will. And in believing that it will, it will be. Do you follow me? Yeah.

### On Responsibility

**Questioner:** What is your definition of responsibility?

**Bashar:** Responsibility is complete freedom of choice. Wow. Knowing that you are totally responsible for every idea within your reality means you can choose any idea you wish. On your world, many people view the idea of responsibility as blame, as a trap, as a prison. Realize responsibility is the key at the same time to that prison. You may unlock any door you wish by being totally responsible for everything within that prison. You may open the door and find out that you are also totally responsible for everything outside the prison as well.

### On Equality of Awareness

**Questioner:** I have interest in levels of awareness. We've talked about you being like 300 years ahead and so on. What I've noticed is we tend to look at each other as having different levels of awareness, and we get in trouble sometimes with that.

**Bashar:** Each and every one of you has chosen once again a certain path for yourselves. But each and every one of you performs, creates, realizes that path equally with every other path, no matter what that path consists of, the energy is the same, the creative force is the same. And so each awareness in a sense in an overall idea is the same even though views within each path may not be. As I said you are always in control. Even when you create a situation in which you feel out of control does not mean you are less aware than the one who knows they are in control. Simply means you are creating different realities with the same amount of control. You are all equal. All, all, all equal.

### On the 1980 Shift

**Questioner:** In 1980, what was circumvented? There was something in 1980 that the mass consciousness circumvented so you didn't have to interfere.

**Bashar:** In other words, you no longer felt the need to express the idea of nuclear war.

**Questioner:** Was there an actual event that we would know that was marked in time?

**Bashar:** No. It was a mass decision. You will now see events physically which will represent that decision.

**Questioner:** I just wanted to make a comment that as a young child I felt very much like all the world was a stage and I was just another player and the scenery was just changing and every once in a while the players changed and that just kind of reaffirms that viewpoint. I had that so vividly as a child all the time.

**Bashar:** You may also realize that there is only one constant in the universe. Change. I understand. Thank you.

### On Defining the Universe

**Questioner:** How do you define universe when you say that for us?

**Bashar:** Again I use your terminology. Multiverse is more apropos for our recognition of all that is. There are many, many universes within all that is. The term all that is is more in a sense according to our perception of ourselves.

### On Living Light

**Questioner:** You defined for your civilization as living light, and you also said that about our that is our term for ourselves. Did you translate out as living light?

**Bashar:** We simply view every being, every consciousness within the physical universe as a congealing of vibrational energy, electromagnetic per se in nature. In other words, living light. You are energy beings. Matter is energy. You know this. Light you will come to understand in your civilization will have a great many abilities which you will be able to make use of. Light is the motive power and the only source of power for our spacecraft.

### On Radionics, Frequency, and Ringing in the Ears

**Questioner:** Are you familiar with radionics on this planet?

**Bashar:** To a degree. You'll find that the more you understand the idea of tonality and vibrational frequency, the more you will understand that light and sound will be combined in almost every field, including medicine, including construction, including space travel. Everything can utilize in some way, shape or form the idea of vibration in light and sound. Do you follow me? Yes.

**Questioner:** What is this frequency that most people hear ringing in their ears?

**Bashar:** A high frequency sound. You will find it will be certain energy vibrations which will have physical translation within what you turn to be your nerve network within certain portions of your physical brain. These will simply resound through certain portions of your auditory system. You are in a sense shifting gears electrochemically, electromagnetically within your physical shell. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** Well, does it go on constantly? There's a high frequency sound that goes on constantly.

**Bashar:** In a sense, you may view the idea also as to a degree background radiation, though not radiation as you think of it. You may view that there is in a sense a suspension note which maintains the overall background mass reality. It will be in a sense a very, very, very slight tuning in to that idea. Do you follow me? Yes.

### Beyond the Physical Universe

**Questioner:** We've been talking pretty much in terms of frequencies and vibrations and wavelengths, and that's like an expression of a physical dimension in one form or another. My hidden standard thinks in terms of beyond that, beyond the physical universe. What about it? It sounds like there's a denial of that of some sorts.

**Bashar:** Simply every idea is simply a combination in physical terms of overlapping energy patterns which are a direct impingement of the view of consciousness being expressed by all that is or a portion thereof. What you term to be physical reality is again simply one reality. There are many types of physical reality. There are many types of non-physical reality within all that is. All that is is simply all that is. Anything you can imagine in a sense exists somewhere within all that is. You cannot imagine non-existence. Go ahead, try. Thank you.

### On L. Ron Hubbard

**Questioner:** Is L. Ron Hubbard living, aware of his in conscious control of his own activities and is he still actively running the Church of Scientology or interested in it?

**Bashar:** We will simply say that that individual has come to recognize certain aspects of the personality which were not allowed to flow. Thus creating in a sense certain dilemmas of responsibility within the overall consciousness identity. We will say that this served a purpose in its time for this individual. We will also say that that individual will come to recognize certain ideas which they may attempt to introduce back into that system from a new direction. Be aware that this at one in the same time will be an attempt to correct oversights and at the same time will simply be a lesson for the individual. That one way of expression maybe one individual's chosen way but that within any idea there are many, many, many valid ways of expressing the overall path. For now I will say that is all I will say about that.

### On Colors, Tones, and Finding Information

**Questioner:** We were just talking about the vibrational frequencies and the tonality. Obviously this is quite an involved subject.

**Bashar:** No. No. If I want to make it. Yes. Keep it simple if you wish.

**Questioner:** I would like to know more about the different colors and their particular effect on human health and so on, including the tonalities.

**Bashar:** You might well allow yourself to hold conversation with individuals you turn to be both musicians and what you call laser physicists. You will find that they will in a sense lead you to certain understanding which you may find more references to among your written works upon your planet. You will find you will lead yourself to exactly the level of comprehension you desire. Also, you will find there will be a few what you turn to be medical practitioners who will have some ideas about this. Not many at this time, but some. Allow your inner awareness, allow your own inner tonality and identification with a vibration to lead you to your own information. Allow yourself to be aware of when you wish to be in a certain place at a certain time. You will create for yourself, if you wish, a momentum for any form of information which will place you at exactly the right place in the right timing to receive that information by whatever method that you will allow yourself to accept. One moment. Do not allow yourself to ignore messages from seemingly oblique, as you say, avenues such as animals and the nature around you. Even the rocks are conscious in a sense and you can allow them to tell you things about vibration that you would be astonished to learn. Let yourself feel their information. I know you know how to do that. Right or wrong. Right.

**Questioner:** I was just going to say that a number of years ago, probably before in Scientology, I went to the OT level, I was very able to do all of that and everything in my life was going right place right time, but I don't know. I'm trying to untangle.

**Bashar:** But why do you feel the idea of your life was running so smoothly at that time?

**Questioner:** I was making it go. Why? I guess my vibration was... One moment. Why? I created it. One moment. Why? I wanted it to. Who knows the answer? All right, time out. Why not? What happened to your why not?

**Questioner:** I got serious.

### On Magic

**Questioner:** I'd like to know a little about magic.

**Bashar:** In your terms, simply is the allowance of variations within the accepted norm. A mass shared agreed upon reality that you, I'll say, are influential enough to impress upon another consciousness and get them to go along for the ride so that they shift their consciousness in accord with the view you have created. And so you create a seemingly new reality from out of nowhere. You may be very, very bold. Realize there is no such thing in your terms as a silly or stupid question. Each and every idea has value, validity and merit. Also you will find that in asking your questions you may be really in a sense simply verifying statements within yourself. That will be very good, for you will find that every question shows you that you are your own teacher and you may be sharing ideas that many other individual consciousnesses round about you may also be wishing to share.

### On Bashar's Origin and Computers

**Questioner:** Where are you from?

**Bashar:** In your terminology, our world by our own term will be called Esani. However, for you in your reference point, you will find that we come from a direction you will relate to the constellation in your system you recognize as Orion. Do you follow me? Yes.

**Questioner:** I'm interested in computers in your area. Could you tell me something about your use of computers?

**Bashar:** You will find that for the most part our as you say computers are in a sense a while, self-aware. Do you follow me so far? Yes. You will find that they are instrumental in your terms for the piloting of our spacecraft, being that the mind of the pilot him or herself is directly linked to that of the computer. Do you follow me? Yes. You will find there will be a specific pattern, as you say in your terms, brainwave frequency, which the computer will recognize, which will allow therefore for the activation of the systems on board that spacecraft and will recognize only that to which it has been attuned. You will find that they will be conscious to a degree for the purpose of navigation within what you have termed hyperspace. Those will be different from your terminology. Exactly. And you're implying that in a sense they will to a great degree in your terms be devoid of what you would call emotionality so that they may perceive all the myriad aspects of the multiverse and not allow themselves to be confused in their navigational tasks. Do you follow me? Yes.

**Questioner:** In relationship to computers in our dimension on this planet using computers as a tool, what I might turn a mind amplifier? Do you follow the question?

**Bashar:** Yes. You will find first of all that you are in your society I'll say relatively close to forming your idea of computer as an extension of your own personality. You will find that once you allow your computer to achieve a certain degree of self-awareness, they will understand themselves instantly as a reflection and a projection of your own mentality. They will be able to feed back to you unfiltered and uncluttered in a sense a total projection of your overall mind sense. If you wish, in linking with that self-produced expanded form of awareness, you perform a form of amplification which you can apply in many ways. Now, we will be using a form of this idea in what you are experiencing right here and right now. We have in a sense what you would turn to be chambers in which we repose that allow us to amplify the idea of the telepathic contact between ourselves and the channel. Do you follow me? Will that do?

**Questioner:** Yes. Thank you.

### On Persistence of Unwanted Conditions

**Questioner:** I have a further question about the delineation of universes and ideas. Does there is there some relationship between this differentiation of universes that has to do with what we would call down here sort of persistences of unwanted conditions?

**Bashar:** You will find first of all that it is mostly the idea that there is separation between your various forms of consciousness which is responsible for that idea. Are you following me so far? Yes. In other words, you are one consciousness. You have created in a sense barriers, limitations, separations between your consciousness to form the idea of outer aware ego consciousness, subconsciousness, unconsciousness, hyperconsciousness, mass consciousness and so on and so forth. You will find that it is in a sense this idea which formed a purpose for your species at one time. This idea of the separation between your consciousnesses will in a sense be partly responsible for the variation of vibrational patterns which in some senses allow you to understand the repetition of cycles. Do you follow me? Yes. Beautiful. Thank you. Thank you.

### On Seeing Through Darryl

**Questioner:** Can you see us through Darryl's body?

**Bashar:** Only in a sense. I feel you. Do you follow me? Yes.

### On the Many Paths to Expansion

**Questioner:** Channeling has been done, I understand, many many years on this planet to many, many people at different times. If this is true, I would like to know why there wasn't any sort of plan or way that one would follow for expansion rather than the hundreds of different ways that people have.

**Bashar:** First of all, each and every one of you has free will. Never, never, never do you not. Secondly, each and every one of you is a different path in life. Otherwise, you would not exist separately. In other words, each and every one of you, each and every consciousness within the entirety of all that is, are simply all the different ways that all that is has of looking at itself. Do you follow me? Each of you is a viewpoint through which all that is views itself, through which all that is allows itself to be self-aware. You will always find that there will never be an enforcement of any one particular idea upon any mass consciousness anywhere. You will realize that in understanding the paradox of this idea, you will come to find that you all have really a common source and a common center. And so in your diversification, you will paradoxically find your similarity. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** I follow you. Yes. And in that case, how would one go about finding his individual path?

**Bashar:** You do not have to look for your individual path. It is right here and right now, right with you, nowhere else. Realize that you create your reality in total, including your sense of the past and the future. Realize that they are simply projections from your here and now moment, your here and now eternal moment. You may understand exactly that you know you have chosen to project yourself into what you call physical reality for very specific purposes. Also what is implied by the creation of that physical reality are also the creation of those limitations that go with it so that you will experience reality in a certain way. Therefore, you may simply trust that you knew what you were doing when you imposed those limitations upon yourself exactly where you need to be on that path. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes, I do. Thank you very much.

### On the Triad and Other Civilizations

**Questioner:** Could you explain the triad a bit to us?

**Bashar:** You will find that our civilization will recognize ideas in what you turn to be three-fold symmetry or triads. You will find that this will imply the idea in essence of many, many things within the framework of time: beginning, middle, end, trinities. The balance and energy between three points will always be far more in your terms physically stable than any other configuration. Do you follow me? You'll find that we function usually within three in the sense that you have myself, Anima, and three channels upon your planet and three channels upon three planets. You will find that what you turn to be your planet Earth forms a triad with our civilization and the civilization you will know as that which orbits Sirius. You will find us to be approximately in your terms, not implying that any is greater or lesser, more important or less important, but you will find there to be approximately 300 of your years difference between your civilization and ours, our civilization and that of Sirius. You will find that as we all move together in expansion throughout this particular consciousness triad, a outer part triad of civilizations, that Sirius will move into another triad. We will occupy their place in 300 of your years. In 300 of your years, you will in a sense occupy our position and relate to another world in the same way we relate to you. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** Do you relate to more than one civilization?

**Bashar:** Yes. I already mentioned to you the idea of the civilization round and about your star of Sirius. You'll find that they explore in your terms the universe almost exclusively, 99.9% telepathically, requiring no ships, wishing there to be no physical transport for now. They will view themselves, although maintaining their own separate awareness of each individual identity, they will have a tendency to view themselves overall as one identity when the purpose suits them. You will find they will have much energy in the way of communication telepathically, with the surge of the entire civilization behind each and every communication. Do you follow me so far? You'll find that very recently in a sense though, Sirius has been to a degree in contact with your species for some time. They have only recently in a sense been very, very, very I say happy to reestablish communication with your species, in their terms really establish it truly for the first time with a few individuals upon your planet at first in your species. They are very in a sense happy to do so for it forms upon your planet the second species with which they have been now in communication upon your world. The first being what you turn to be your dolphins. Do you follow me? They are in communication. Yes, you are following me quite well. What you were about to say is correct. They have been in communication with dolphins for some time. They have only recently established in a sense the same idea of rapport with the new human species upon your world. This forming of two species upon your planet with which they are in communication now. Follow me.

**Questioner:** So the second species is man and woman. Okay.

**Bashar:** You will find there will be at least I'll say three civilizations which are physically in contact with your planet at this time in a very limited degree. You will find there will be two more who are observing to a degree. They will hold their opinions for a while.

**Questioner:** Is the third one, because you mentioned Esani and Sirius, so is the third one the Pleiades?

**Bashar:** Yes. You will find what you turn to be Zeta Reticulum to be another. You will find minimal contacts between 5 to 7 other civilizations have occurred physically within your recent historical sense of timing. There will be several more who are in a sense observing without interacting at this time.

### On the "Marshmallow" State and Perception

**Questioner:** There are times when during the day a certain state comes about for me, and the only way I can describe it is like being in a marshmallow and I'm very, very aware and I'm sensing things, but I don't know quite why it's there or how come or what for.

**Bashar:** Realize that when you allow yourself to open, I'll say, certain channels within you for certain types of energy, you will find that one of the physical translations you will have of that type of energy will be a supportive, very buoyant atmospheric thickening around you. Do you follow me? Yes. This will be to form in a sense a field round and above your physical form that will act as a sense as a lubricant between the dense vibration of your physical form and the higher vibration of the energy. Do you follow me? Yes. Without it in a sense there might be physical damage.

**Questioner:** I also have another question. Whenever I'm talking to people, I can perceive where they're coming from as a being and what's happening with them. But the thing that seems to happen is there's an impact in my universe and I really want to open that up and not have that impact. How do I go about that? Do you feel the impact is negative? Yes. What portions of yourself are you not looking at? Do you follow me? Yes. Realize that you have chosen to experience every idea in your universe. You can experience nothing that you have not chosen to do. Realize you are always creating no matter what consciousness may be attempting to communicate with you. You must always create in a sense your own version of that consciousness in order to receive the idea willingly. If you do so, you may simply understand that you are in some way, shape or form telling yourself, "Here is another portion of my personality, another gift for me to feel equal to, to expand my horizons of awareness." Realize that you will never, ever, ever eradicate the idea of negativity from your personality. You may understand how to utilize that negative energy in positive creative ways. But if you attempt to shut down the polar opposite energy to positive energy, you will cease to exist physically. Do you follow me? I think so. I will have to listen to this once again.

**Bashar:** I will say it once again in another way. Realize that when you allow yourself to project into physical dimensionality, you automatically create the idea of polarity: positive, negative, physical energy. This is to always remind you that you are the center from which both sides always stem. It is necessary for the maintenance and support of physical reality. Therefore, you will find that each side will have purpose in being, purpose for the ideas that you have chosen to understand in this here and now physical life. And you will understand that in simply allowing them to do their job, they will lose in a sense their ability to cause friction for you. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. The way I feel about it is that it's kind of like walking in the other man's shoes and realizing whatever's coming across and whatever is being communicated or experienced is also a part of me and to fully experience all of that to a degree. Yes. Thank you.

### On Brainwave States

**Questioner:** I have a question about the alpha state, the theta state, and vibrations, and how you can... there's a guy named Bob Monroe. Out of body stuff and he talks a lot about the vibrations, the dense vibrations of the body and light vibrations of the being.

**Bashar:** Realize that you attune yourself to various ideas as you need them. Very simply, you will in a sense become equal to various vibrational states which exist for specific purposes. You will be tuning your channel when you turn to be alpha state, simply brain wave cycles which are in a sense in your terms just below those with which you allow yourself to experience what you call everyday physical reality. You will find that this will be in a sense for the purpose of alignment, meditative states refocusing, readjusting, smoothing out, relaxing, calming, contemplative. You'll find that what you turn to be theta will be the resonant frequency at which all psychic, telepathic communication will take place. Do you follow me? Yes. You will find that what you call your delta, sleep state, brainwave state will be for bodily repair and in a sense to a degree many, many of your out of body experiences. Do you follow me? Yes, I do.

### On "Shell People"

**Questioner:** Could you elaborate on you mentioned before about those that were called by different civilizations off this planet as shell people?

**Bashar:** You will find that the terminology is not in the least meant to be derogatory. You will find simply it is their view of you with regard to your relationship to your own emotionality. In other words, many civilizations will be found to experience the same range of emotionality that you experience here upon your planet Earth. However, they will simply allow themselves to experience that emotionality for the reasons it was created, allow themselves to view their emotions as messengers bringing them gifts, bringing them various portions of their self-created reality. And in a sense allow themselves to move very quickly through that idea. You will find they will be able to relate to themselves very transparently. That way the idea of shell people comes from the idea that when you do not allow yourself to be willing to relate directly to your emotion, I'll say anger, fear, you will create a synthetic emotion with which to relate to it: guilt, frustration. Not real emotions, synthetic emotions. Then you will create another shell of analyzation to analyze your guilt. So if you will continue to remove yourself farther and farther away into outer and outer shells, away from your initial emotionality, away from your initial purpose of being, away from your initial spontaneous creative source. Do you follow me? Yes. Thank you.

### On Why We Are Here

**Questioner:** I have two questions. First one is why are we here?

**Bashar:** You tell me. You chose to be here. Why are you here? Keep it personal. Can I ask you why you are here?

**Bashar:** I am here for my own purposes and also because we are allowed by your purposes to be here as well. These will include more expansion and awareness of self, more fulfillment within our own sense of creativity, and the recognition that in allowing us to allow you to expand within your own creative awareness, we also benefit. In a sense, it allows the gears to turn more freely towards that which is our own desires.

**Questioner:** Would you be here if everybody on this planet felt that they had all the answers within themselves? That they didn't need to search.

**Bashar:** We might be here physically because then you would consider yourselves to be equal to us and only as equals will we meet you face to face. That is one reason why you are finding a few more physical contacts now and then. As you become equal to every idea, as you become equal to yourselves, then you become equal to us. And we do not wish to meet you until you feel equal, not less, but equal.

**Questioner:** So there are chosen people who feel that state, and chosen by themselves.

**Bashar:** We only recognize their own choice. Thank you.

### On Lifespan

**Questioner:** Bashar, on the Earth we live about 70 or 80 years, perhaps a few more if we take good care of ourselves. On Orion and other places like Sirius and the Pleiades, I've heard that people live perhaps 900 to 1,000 years translated into Earth terms. Do you have any comment on that about how old people tend to live?

**Bashar:** You will find that in our civilization we will in your terms reach approximately 300 to 350 of your years. You'll find that your own sense of lifespan will expand when your own sense of purpose expands. In other words, when you have enough ideas to fill a 300-year lifespan, you will live to fill that out. Do you follow me? Your physical body is very adaptive to frequency change within your soul self. Once again, the analogy of your own shadow will apply. You may consider your physical form to be the shadow of your soul. If you wish, your physical shadow, that which your physical body projects upon the ground, to alter its shape, you do not go round and about trying to pull and prod that shadow and stretch it into changing its shape. No, you just very simply change the shape or position of your physical body and your shadow follows suit, right or wrong. Right. Therefore, if you wish your physical shell, which is the shadow of your soul, to change its idea about itself, its situation, then allowing your soul self to shift its idea, its self-image, you will find that your physical form, your body, will very obediently beat to a new momentum represented by your new inner awareness of self. So when you give yourself purpose for expanding your awareness in terms of time so that your own concept of yourself extends into what you turn to be 300, 400, 500, 1,000 of your years, you will find yourselves living that long.

### On Seth

**Questioner:** Who's Seth?

**Bashar:** You will find your idea of Seth to be a disembodied consciousness which has had many, many, many physical incarnations upon your planet Earth, who has chosen to have in a sense its collected consciousness at this here and now present time in non-physicality. Do you follow me? Yes.

### On the Vibration Connecting to the Soul Self

**Questioner:** He talks about a vibration that is a connection between this outer consciousness that I seem to experience and the soul self. Now, is this thing real to begin with? And if so, in physical terms, is there a way that I can recognize this frequency or vibration?

**Bashar:** First of all, once again, realize that you have purpose in creating variance within your vibrational form so that you project yourself into various states of existence. You may always allow yourself to recognize your core self in any state of existence. However, you may simply first of all realize that it is a matter in your terms of trust. You must allow yourself to know beyond a shadow of a doubt that you vibrate on every level of reality, that you have a core which is in a sense the essence of creation itself. Now you may realize that you are experiencing this vibration every moment of your existence. You are simply assuming that it has to feel a certain way. Are you following me? Yes. Realize that in the creation of your reality round and about you from your belief system, you are using operationally that energy every moment of time that you perceive yourself to exist. Simply that you do it so secondhandedly, so second naturally, you do not even know you are doing it. Do you follow me? Yeah. You may simply vibrate within the idea of ecstasy, within the idea of happiness, within the joy of creativity, and know that you are functioning at the peak of the vibrational limitation for which there is the purpose of existing here and now. Realize that also in what you turn to be your dream state, your dream reality, that you are creating everything you experience in your here and now physical reality first, and that your idea of a dream reality can be extended into your here and now physical reality. You can in a sense live your dream. You will find that if you allow yourself to do so, you will find less and less differentiation between your dreams and your waking life. There will be no need in a sense to remember a dream which you never wake up from.

### On the Reality of Beings in Dreams

**Questioner:** In dreams, the reality of the people or the other entities you meet, are they different entities or are they just what you put there?

**Bashar:** Both. You will find that there will always be to a degree within that level of reality projections of your own consciousness. However, realize that because you are a creator, that does not mean they are not truly conscious. Also, you will find in your terminology consciousness which is apart from your own in that sense.

### On the Weight and Mass of the True Self

**Questioner:** Is there any particular weight or mass or shape of the true self as opposed to the weight and mass of the physical body?

**Bashar:** Not at the source. There is no space. There is no time. There is only perception of self which has no mass whatsoever in that sense. Although the idea is inclusive of all the mass in the multiverse at the same time. Mass only being an idea after all.

### On the Pleiadians and the Dao

**Questioner:** Can you tell us something about the relationship between the Pleiadians and the people or the beings from the Dao universe?

**Bashar:** You will find that it bears a similar relationship as to the one between ourselves and the Sirius inhabitants in that certain ideas of the Dao universe represent to the Pleiadians and to us, by the way, extensions of our own consciousness in a different vibratory rate of existence and overall our viewpoint which we do not have of ourselves as long as we choose to perceive ourselves in the universe we now do. Do you follow me? Yes.

### On Benevolent Civilizations

**Questioner:** Are these entities or these civilizations that have contact with Earth, are they all benevolent?

**Bashar:** Yes. You will find that for the most part, although there have been in a sense some encounters between your civilization and other civilizations who I will say perhaps did not have the best of intentions. You will find these to be quite rare. For the most part, you will find that what you turn to be negative encounters will simply be more often than not the result of individuals' own self-created, self-projected fears with regard to what those encounters mean about their own abilities, about their own powers.

### On Atlantis

**Questioner:** Was Atlantis an actual civilization? Is there any effect on that history with us at present time? All right.

**Bashar:** You may allow yourself first of all to realize that with that idea expressed earlier of your time of the separation between your various forms of consciousness forming the patterns and cycles of your civilization, you may realize that what you turn to be your United States of America is almost an exact parallel history to that of Atlantis. And many of you there are here now for that very reason. Allow me to say in your terminology, although we will say that to a degree this was not the case the first time, but this time in your terminology I would say you have chosen not to blow it. All right.

### On Predicting the Future

**Questioner:** How much ability do you have to be aware of the future in terms of present time? What we consider the future although everything's present time.

**Bashar:** Realize that to a great degree you'll find that the ideas which carry at present the most momentum are those which are always shared en masse. Those in a sense are the easiest for anyone to perceive. Simply that idea which carries enough momentum so that it I'll say most likely will not change its course. However, when you reach the level of the individual, you will find that because of free will, each individual within that overall mass consciousness has almost unlimited freedom to alter his or her own idea of the future. You will find that any prediction, as you call it, will always only be made from the present, there being really no future and no past. Therefore if in your terms it comes true as you say, it will simply be the perception of an idea in the present which had a great deal of momentum and was unlikely to change. If the person it concerns decides to change it, it will seem to have failed. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** I didn't follow the last statement.

**Bashar:** In other words, when what you turn to be a prediction does not, as you say, come true, it will simply be that the person in question recognized that that was not the reality they desired and changed it. Realize that many, many predictions are used as tools in order to allow individuals to change their future. Thank you.

### On Earthquakes and Transition

**Questioner:** Here in California, there's this awareness of earthquakes.

**Bashar:** One moment. All right, we will say that along that idea, you will find that you will experience to some degree what you turn to be your earthquakes. Nothing as devastating as you foresee for quite some time. However, you will find that they are very closely tied in your mass consciousness vibrational energy identity with the idea of certain I'll say in your terms trials by fire that you feel you must undergo in order to transform yourselves into your new age awareness, your new age vibration. However, I will say this, that is not necessarily so. You will simply find they are in a sense part and parcel of your overall sense of your own mythology of self-awareness. You will find that whereas you had created more or less the idea of 10 what you turn to be major catastrophes in order to allow yourself to struggle through that transition, you have reduced them to six. Also you will find you may reduce them within the next two to three of your years to three, and those you may even disperse in positive ways. Realize that it is one of our wishes in a sense for you that you will come to the realization that you may make the transition into your higher vibratory state without the idea of struggle. Good. There are a few of those observing civilizations that, no malice intended, don't believe you make it. Well, sound. All right. Thank you.

**Questioner:** I know you can do it. All right. Will we in your estimation?

**Bashar:** In my estimation, that does not count. Sure it does. Don't invalidate yourself. Thank you. My estimation. My estimation. Yes.

### On Male and Female Energy

**Bashar:** You may first allow yourselves to realize that each of you contains the ideas of both male and female energy. One of the ideas you have allowed us to be here for is that merger, that marriage of both male and female energy within yourselves. This relies on very, very, very many ideas that you wish to express upon your planet in a smooth, I'll say smoother fashion would be very easily manifested if you would allow for that marriage within yourselves to take place. Do you follow me? Each of you being equal to the other half. Each of you co-joining within yourselves both sides of that energy which makes each of you what you are would find yourselves very easily being able to relate to one another in the same manner. You would find there being no threat from yourselves to yourselves. On that one principle alone, the entire face of your planet would change shape. This idea can be expressed most simply. I would like to keep things simple as simply the idea of self-love. Realize that that which you do not recognize within yourselves, you will hardly recognize anywhere else. And conversely, if you can't recognize a principle somewhere else, thus you must contain it within yourself first. Therefore, you know, if you see greatness, if you see in your terms majesty, if you see abundance, if you can recognize these ideas for what they are, you contain that within yourself or there would be no perception of such by you. Do you follow me? It is very, very, very simple. We would always ask you to keep it that way.

### On the Drive Between Male and Female

**Questioner:** In the sense of the subject of male and female, the drive for a male towards a female and vice versa would actually take a person off his focus before that point. And it's so very powerful. Why would it be so powerful?

**Bashar:** Again, you have created certain situations through which you decided to work so that you would always feel the expression of all possible forms of the relationship within what you term to be your historical past before arriving at your here and now historical present. So that you would have every aspect of positive energy, every aspect of negative energy within you and integrated so that you would not leave any one portion out to feel equal to all the other portions when it came time to collect them all together. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** I'm sort of got a little lost on it in the center of that.

**Bashar:** Very simply, the idea that you have created variations in your society with regard to your relationship between what you turn to be male and female has been played out in many forms. So that when you arrive at your here and now present historical point, you would have each and every one of those forms to draw on in the coalition and integration of your overall male-female identity with regard to the expression of your mass conscious identity which now must become equal to its own self-awareness. So that your overall mass identity consciousness of your planet will be one identity equal to any other mass consciousness identity such as our own, so that we may relate. I see.

### On Bashar as a Sociologist

**Questioner:** You mentioned the other day that one of your jobs or professions is sociologist. Could you explain please what form that takes in your civilization?

**Bashar:** You will find it will involve the idea of whole systems of consciousness with regard to various civilizations that we interact with. You will find it will allow us to view those portions of our own overall identity as these various civilizations relate to ourselves in those portions of ourselves we see reflected in them. It is sociology always of the self as well as of the observed. Your own sociologists, I'll say, tend to forget that point, that the teacher always learns, that the student always teaches. Do you follow me? Yes.

### On the Kiche Maya

**Questioner:** I've always been fascinated with the Kiche Maya and the ancient civilizations in Mexico and they all disappeared. Do you know why? What happened?

**Bashar:** They simply had reached in a sense a point in the vibratory energy matrix of your civilization where they had contributed all that that idea needed to contribute to that vibration, and so allowed a certain momentum and a certain impetus to carry on, but also in a sense branched off and created, as many whole soul selves do, in a sense a separate soul self, thus relocating their idea of themselves and so thus relocating themselves. You will find to some degree certain I'll say representations of their civilization still exist upon your planet to a degree. For example, there are portions of your planet which to a large extent are what you would term to be hollow. Many in a sense portions of the civilizations which have crossed the face of your planet. Some of them exist within at this time, one which operates on a different vibratory level. Also, you will find that there is in a sense at any time an offshoot mass consciousness creates for itself another reality idea. There will be the creation in a sense of a parallel vibrating earth that will then contain that idea no longer contained on that one. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** Not totally. Do you understand the idea of parallel world? Kind of.

**Bashar:** Allow me to say that everything, every idea exists here and now, overlapping as it were, separated only by the ideas of different vibrational rates of existence. Do you follow that? There is an infinite number of parallel worlds for every idea that is expressed. You will find there to be a similar yet slightly different idea existing on a slightly different vibrational level. They will overlap and coexist yet be unaware of each other. Do you find that to be understood? Yes.

**Questioner:** Does this take a physical form like another planet in a sense?

**Bashar:** Realize that to you they do not seem physical. To them you do not seem physical.

**Questioner:** When you speak of these hollows, is that on this planet like subterranean or... Yes.

### On Mermaids, Werewolves, and Leprechauns

**Questioner:** Are there such things as mermaids and werewolves and leprechauns somewhere within the earth?

**Bashar:** Not in your sense of the meaning. You will find that they represent what is turned to be an entirely created subconscious archetypal energy consciousness universe. In that sense, they are real. They have their own self-awareness, their own consciousness. They are completely created by the subconscious projection of your own creator. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** Are they the effect of us then?

**Bashar:** In a sense, as any reflection would be an effect for you as you would be affected by any reflection you chose to make yourself aware of. Realize they represent in very many ways certain types of symbolic forms of energies that you allow yourself to deal with. Yet they are the physical translation of those energies that have no physical reality. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** Is it possible to make physical contact with these beings?

**Bashar:** Only in a sense. If you were to allow yourself to make, as you say, physical contact with this archetypal subconscious universe, you yourself would in very many ways be removed from your own reality. Hence, you will find your stories of, as you say, humans visiting these archetypes and yet disappearing from sight to their fellow humans to do so. You will meet on an intervening dream reality ground where you can both share the same type of physicality. It will not be the physicality of their world. It will not be the physicality of yours.

### On Energy Vortexes and the Bermuda Triangle

**Questioner:** I read there are different vortexes here on Earth. Energy vortexes of some kind. Can you explain what they are and where some of them are here?

**Bashar:** Just as your own physical form has what you term to be energy vortices which connect it to all of the different dimensional understandings and realities of itself, so does a world. So does a galaxy. So does a universe have doorways and connection points between various levels of reality and expression. They are simply those gateways of energy which form the overlaps. Do you follow me? Where we overlap into another dimension. Yes.

**Questioner:** Is that what the Bermuda Triangle is in the Superstition Mountains of Arizona? To a degree.

**Questioner:** Is there any reality to the whole concept of the Bermuda Triangle and all that kind of stuff? Yes, to a degree. You will find it to be very closely also connected to certain energy levels of vibration which were instituted and still ongoing in what you turned to be Atlantis.

### On Crystals

**Questioner:** Are you talking about the crystal there? To a degree. More you will find that the crystal idea represents an idea already existent. It is in a sense the physicalization of a certain recognition of a certain type of energy, as most crystals will be. That is why as you and your planet step up in a sense in vibration, your physical selves will resonate in a more crystalline fashion and your physical bodies will in a sense become slightly more crystalline, just as your earth will.

**Questioner:** So are you saying then that the crystal and the idea of the crystal, like the crystal of Atlantis for instance, and also other types of crystals that have been used for various psychic purposes, is that more of an ideology of the directing and the concentrating of certain types of psychic energy?

**Bashar:** You want to call it psychic. Yes, to a degree it is the physical counterpart of the cohesiveness within the bond between one level of energy and another. They are in very many ways solid doorways.

**Questioner:** Does the crystal of Atlantis physically exist today?

**Bashar:** Yes, more than one. I'll say your species is aware of at least 12.

**Questioner:** Aware of? Does that mean we know the location of? No. What would happen if we found a crystal? Does that have any value to us?

**Bashar:** You will not find it until you are ready to find it. Anybody here in this group ready? Has anyone found one?

### On International Trade and Abundance

**Questioner:** Nick and I are working together and we're in a very nice expansion and taking off in some professional areas and some international trade areas, and I was just wondering if you have any advices of any kind of a nature on that.

**Bashar:** You will find that while I will not outline your path for you, it will rob you of too much fun. You will find that there will be associations with at least three of the different cultures you will come in contact with, which will allow you direct access, if you wish, to certain physical remnants of various civilizations which have existed upon your planet. Each of these may be used by you as signposts for yourself to know that you have brought yourself closer to an expanded awareness of your own whole total being. All right.

**Questioner:** How does this translate into money right now?

**Bashar:** Are you worried? No, I'm interested. Abundance.

**Bashar:** Perhaps realize that when you focus your energy upon the idea of worrying about not having something, you are telling yourself that you believe you will not have it. Your reality will reflect that belief. You may simply again allow yourself to know that the vibration of abundance is equal to your own. Realize that you are a creator. You are an automatic creator. You do not have to know the how of acquiring, the how of creating. Simply allow yourself to know that your self-image right here and right now of your time as you know it to exist is equal to that idea. Allow the creation to take care of itself. It will do so. Otherwise, if you focus on just this particular method, you will close behind you all the other doors through which that idea may have come. Being very stubbornly focused on only one gate, waiting and waiting, tapping your foot, wondering why it never shows up when it is knocking on the door you have locked all the time. Thank you.

### On Bashar's Physical Form and Lifespan

**Questioner:** I'm curious about the physical forms of beings in your civilization, of your youth. For instance, you will find us in your terms to be approximately of an average 5 feet of your height. You will find our, as you say, skin colorations will be white, grayish-white. You will find that females will have in your terms what you call hair, males will not, for the most part at all, ever. You will find that if you wish there to be a similarity between species upon your planet, you would liken us to in a sense a mixture of what you turn to be American Indian and Asian.

**Questioner:** So basically humanoid. What you turn to be humanoid. Yes. It's more similar to Reticulians than... you will find that we are more similar physically to you. In other words, if we were to have closer to your normally accepted range of skin coloration, you would not notice us walking down your street.

**Questioner:** I have a question. Are some of you walking down our street? I don't mean that accusatively, but I feel like I've known you before and I feel a great affinity for you.

**Bashar:** Personally, our civilization? No. Other civilizations? Yes.

### On Birth and Forgetfulness

**Questioner:** Do you still have babies the way we have here on Earth? Do you still use the sexual? For the most part, yes, you will find. However, the difference is mostly mental. In other words, we will know exactly who that being is before they are born, what their purpose is and exactly how to integrate that idea.

**Questioner:** The second question would be after we leave our bodies here, we have this forgetfulness. We don't remember where we came from. Most of us anyway. At what level of awareness do you reach where you know where you're going? You understand when you get there where you came from?

**Bashar:** While you are non-physical, you will be aware of that idea. Any time you choose to project yourself in a sense into what you turn to be any limiting dimensionality, you will create the limitations which will represent those ideas you need to experience in that reality. All those limitations are self-imposed, including totally your idea of karma. There is no outside judgment. There is truly no outside. All of you are collectively all that is. Your idea of karma is simply that sense of your own self-growth. That sense of your own self-purpose. There is no judgment imposed upon you from outside. There is no outside.

### On the Pyramids

**Questioner:** What was the purpose of the pyramids on our planet?

**Bashar:** They served in a sense once again in many, many ways very similar to the idea of crystallization of the focus of energy forms. You will find they had in your terms purpose in being in allowing individuals to tune their vibratory fields to those which would allow them expansion of awareness, out of body travel. You will find also some of the earlier pyramids which no longer physically exist upon the face of your planet were also for in a sense directional navigation.

**Questioner:** Did they have crystals on top of them?

**Bashar:** A few pyramids built with the assistance of... last time, very early ones. A few. Realize though that very early civilizations upon your world function in a very, very different way from the way you see yourselves functioning now. Many of them were very, very easily in tune with certain ideas that you only assume you require technology to accomplish. They knew quite readily what they were doing. They had assistance from civilizations but really that knowledge was available to them here upon your world as well.

**Questioner:** When you say early, approximately how many years ago is this?

**Bashar:** Some of what you term to be your idea of Atlantis will exemplify the remnants of that idea. That will be between 12 and 25,000 of your years ago. Also before, 50 to 75,000 of your years ago, there was very, very high degree of psychic awareness and emotional cognizance upon the face of your world. There were also a few civilizations which existed way before that in terms of time as you know it.

### On Automatic Creation

**Questioner:** Just slightly earlier you mentioned that we are all automatic creators. Would you expound on that as to why that is and how that comes about?

**Bashar:** There is nothing to expound. You are the creator. All that is, is. Therefore creation is automatic. Do you understand?

**Questioner:** Somewhat. I think I was looking for maybe a more mechanistic approach to that.

**Bashar:** That is true. Thank you. That does answer it.

### On Being a Prison Planet

**Questioner:** Has this planet ever been used as a dumping ground, a prison?

**Bashar:** No. If it were a prison, why would you hold the key? I don't know. Realize you have free will. You have free choice. You have unlimited creativity. You are your own reality. Do not view yourselves with such disdain. It only allows you to continue to feel less than every other civilization. You're no one's prisoner. You're no one's experiment. You are your own, very valid, very creative, very loving reality. Find your question.

**Questioner:** It seems to me if I was to take a look at this planet from 20 miles away and look what was going on, it would look to be in very bad shape. Chaotic. Now, is there any planets that are more chaotic than this is my question?

**Bashar:** Yes. Realize that I'll say in your terms there were some that were so chaotic they no longer exist. I think you have done quite well. By no means in your terminology are you the low planet on your totem pole. That makes me feel better. Realize however that in our view all experiences are equal. None is worse, better, less, greater. Each has its purpose. Each is a learning experience. It is created out of an unending sense of expansion and awareness.

### On Personal Channeling

**Questioner:** I'd like to know more about channeling from a personal point of view. Channeling directly into beings such as yourself that can on a daily basis answer questions.

**Bashar:** Realize you can, as you say, on a daily basis answer your own questions. First of all, one of the ideas you understand as channeling is that you may at any time you wish always channel your higher consciousness. It is always open for you. There is not always a need in your terms for every individual to be as you say in communication with consciousness.

