---
heading: Part 5
title: "Self Created Journey"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1985-01-27
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 17
tags: ['lifespan', 'earthquakes', 'male-female', 'atlantis']
---


## Lifespan

**Questioner:** Bashar, on the Earth we live about 70 or 80 years, perhaps a few more if we take good care of ourselves. On Orion and other places like Sirius and the Pleiades, I've heard that people live perhaps 900 to 1,000 years translated into Earth terms. Do you have any comment on that about how old people tend to live?

**Bashar:** You will find that in our civilization we will in your terms reach approximately 300 to 350 of your years. You'll find that your own sense of lifespan will expand when your own sense of purpose expands. 

In other words, when you have enough ideas to fill a 300-year lifespan, you will live to fill that out. Do you follow me? Your physical body is very adaptive to frequency change within your soul self. 

The analogy of your own shadow will apply. You may consider your physical form to be the shadow of your soul. If you wish, your physical shadow, that which your physical body projects upon the ground, to alter its shape, you do not go round and about trying to pull and prod that shadow and stretch it into changing its shape. No, you just very simply change the shape or position of your physical body and your shadow follows suit, right or wrong.

Therefore, if you wish your physical shell, which is the shadow of your soul, to change its idea about itself, its situation, then allowing your soul self to shift its idea, its self-image, you will find that your physical form, your body, will very obediently beat to a new momentum represented by your new inner awareness of self. So when you give yourself purpose for expanding your awareness in terms of time so that your own concept of yourself extends into what you turn to be 300, 400, 500, 1,000 of your years, you will find yourselves living that long.


<!-- ## Seth

**Questioner:** Who's Seth?

**Bashar:** He is a disembodied consciousness which has had many physical incarnations on Earth. He who has chosen to have in a sense its collected consciousness at this here and now present time in non-physicality. Do you follow me? Yes. -->


## On the Vibration Connecting to the Soul Self

**Questioner:** He talks about a vibration that is a connection between this outer consciousness that I seem to experience and the soul self. Now, is this thing real to begin with? And if so, in physical terms, is there a way that I can recognize this frequency or vibration?

**Bashar:** You have purpose in creating variance within your vibrational form so that you project yourself into various states of existence. You may always allow yourself to recognize your core self in any state of existence.

However, you may simply first of all realize that it is a matter in your terms of trust. You must allow yourself to know beyond a shadow of a doubt that you vibrate on every level of reality, that you have a core which is in a sense the essence of creation itself. Now you may realize that you are experiencing this vibration every moment of your existence. You are simply assuming that it has to feel a certain way. Are you following me? Yes. Realize that in the creation of your reality round and about you from your belief system, you are using operationally that energy every moment of time that you perceive yourself to exist. Simply that you do it so secondhandedly, so second naturally, you do not even know you are doing it. Do you follow me? Yeah. You may simply vibrate within the idea of ecstasy, within the idea of happiness, within the joy of creativity, and know that you are functioning at the peak of the vibrational limitation for which there is the purpose of existing here and now. Realize that also in what you turn to be your dream state, your dream reality, that you are creating everything you experience in your here and now physical reality first, and that your idea of a dream reality can be extended into your here and now physical reality. You can in a sense live your dream. You will find that if you allow yourself to do so, you will find less and less differentiation between your dreams and your waking life. There will be no need in a sense to remember a dream which you never wake up from.

### On the Reality of Beings in Dreams

**Questioner:** In dreams, the reality of the people or the other entities you meet, are they different entities or are they just what you put there?

**Bashar:** Both. You will find that there will always be to a degree within that level of reality projections of your own consciousness. However, realize that because you are a creator, that does not mean they are not truly conscious. Also, you will find in your terminology consciousness which is apart from your own in that sense.

### On the Weight and Mass of the True Self

**Questioner:** Is there any particular weight or mass or shape of the true self as opposed to the weight and mass of the physical body?

**Bashar:** Not at the source. There is no space. There is no time. There is only perception of self which has no mass whatsoever in that sense. Although the idea is inclusive of all the mass in the multiverse at the same time. Mass only being an idea after all.

### On the Pleiadians and the Dao

**Questioner:** Can you tell us something about the relationship between the Pleiadians and the people or the beings from the Dao universe?

**Bashar:** You will find that it bears a similar relationship as to the one between ourselves and the Sirius inhabitants in that certain ideas of the Dao universe represent to the Pleiadians and to us, by the way, extensions of our own consciousness in a different vibratory rate of existence and overall our viewpoint which we do not have of ourselves as long as we choose to perceive ourselves in the universe we now do. Do you follow me? Yes.

### On Benevolent Civilizations

**Questioner:** Are these entities or these civilizations that have contact with Earth, are they all benevolent?

**Bashar:** Yes. You will find that for the most part, although there have been in a sense some encounters between your civilization and other civilizations who I will say perhaps did not have the best of intentions. You will find these to be quite rare. For the most part, you will find that what you turn to be negative encounters will simply be more often than not the result of individuals' own self-created, self-projected fears with regard to what those encounters mean about their own abilities, about their own powers.

### On Atlantis

**Questioner:** Was Atlantis an actual civilization? Is there any effect on that history with us at present time? All right.

**Bashar:** You may allow yourself first of all to realize that with that idea expressed earlier of your time of the separation between your various forms of consciousness forming the patterns and cycles of your civilization, you may realize that what you turn to be your United States of America is almost an exact parallel history to that of Atlantis. And many of you there are here now for that very reason. Allow me to say in your terminology, although we will say that to a degree this was not the case the first time, but this time in your terminology I would say you have chosen not to blow it. All right.

### On Predicting the Future

**Questioner:** How much ability do you have to be aware of the future in terms of present time? What we consider the future although everything's present time.

**Bashar:** Realize that to a great degree you'll find that the ideas which carry at present the most momentum are those which are always shared en masse. Those in a sense are the easiest for anyone to perceive. Simply that idea which carries enough momentum so that it I'll say most likely will not change its course. However, when you reach the level of the individual, you will find that because of free will, each individual within that overall mass consciousness has almost unlimited freedom to alter his or her own idea of the future. You will find that any prediction, as you call it, will always only be made from the present, there being really no future and no past. Therefore if in your terms it comes true as you say, it will simply be the perception of an idea in the present which had a great deal of momentum and was unlikely to change. If the person it concerns decides to change it, it will seem to have failed. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** I didn't follow the last statement.

**Bashar:** In other words, when what you turn to be a prediction does not, as you say, come true, it will simply be that the person in question recognized that that was not the reality they desired and changed it. Realize that many, many predictions are used as tools in order to allow individuals to change their future. Thank you.

### On Earthquakes and Transition

**Questioner:** Here in California, there's this awareness of earthquakes.

**Bashar:** You will experience earthquakes.

Nothing as devastating for quite some time. However, you will find that they are very closely tied in your mass consciousness vibrational energy identity with the idea of certain I'll say in your terms trials by fire that you feel you must undergo in order to transform yourselves into your new age awareness, your new age vibration.

However, this is not necessarily so. 

You will simply find they are in a sense part and parcel of your overall sense of your own mythology of self-awareness. You will find that whereas you had created more or less the idea of 10 what you turn to be major catastrophes in order to allow yourself to struggle through that transition, you have reduced them to six. Also you will find you may reduce them within the next two to three of your years to three, and those you may even disperse in positive ways.

Realize that it is one of our wishes in a sense for you that you will come to the realization that you may make the transition into your higher vibratory state without the idea of struggle. Good. 

There are a few of those observing civilizations that, no malice intended, don't believe you make it.


### On Male and Female Energy


**Questioner:** The drive for a male towards a female and vice versa would actually take a person off his focus before that point. It's so very powerful. Why would it be so powerful?

**Bashar:** Each of you contains both male and female energy. 

That marriage of male and female energy within yourselves relies on many ideas that you wish to express on your planet in a smoother fashion would be very easily manifested if you would allow for that marriage within yourselves to take place.

Each of you being equal to the other half.

Each of you co-joining within yourselves both sides of that energy which makes each of you what you are would find yourselves very easily being able to relate to one another in the same manner. 

You would find there being no threat from yourselves to yourselves. 

On that one principle alone, the entire face of your planet would change shape.

This idea can be expressed most simply as the idea of self-love.

That which you do not recognize within yourselves, you will hardly recognize anywhere else. 

Conversely, if you can't recognize a principle somewhere else, thus you must contain it within yourself first.

Therefore,, if you see greatness, abundance, then you contain that within yourself or else there would be no perception of such by you.

It is very, very simple. Keep it that way.

You have created certain situations through which you decided to work so that you would always feel the expression of all possible forms of the relationship within what you term to be your historical past before arriving at your here and now historical present. So that you would have every aspect of positive energy, every aspect of negative energy within you and integrated so that you would not leave any one portion out to feel equal to all the other portions when it came time to collect them all together.

**Questioner:** I'm sort of got a little lost on it in the center of that.

**Bashar:** Very simply, the idea that you have created variations in your society with regard to your relationship between what you turn to be male and female has been played out in many forms. So that when you arrive at your here and now present historical point, you would have each and every one of those forms to draw on in the coalition and integration of your overall male-female identity with regard to the expression of your mass conscious identity which now must become equal to its own self-awareness. So that your overall mass identity consciousness of your planet will be one identity equal to any other mass consciousness identity such as our own, so that we may relate. I see.

### On Bashar as a Sociologist

**Questioner:** You mentioned the other day that one of your jobs or professions is sociologist. Could you explain please what form that takes in your civilization?

**Bashar:** You will find it will involve the idea of whole systems of consciousness with regard to various civilizations that we interact with. You will find it will allow us to view those portions of our own overall identity as these various civilizations relate to ourselves in those portions of ourselves we see reflected in them. It is sociology always of the self as well as of the observed. Your own sociologists, I'll say, tend to forget that point, that the teacher always learns, that the student always teaches. Do you follow me? Yes.

### On the Kiche Maya

**Questioner:** I've always been fascinated with the Kiche Maya and the ancient civilizations in Mexico and they all disappeared. Do you know why? What happened?

**Bashar:** They simply had reached in a sense a point in the vibratory energy matrix of your civilization where they had contributed all that that idea needed to contribute to that vibration, and so allowed a certain momentum and a certain impetus to carry on, but also in a sense branched off and created, as many whole soul selves do, in a sense a separate soul self, thus relocating their idea of themselves and so thus relocating themselves. You will find to some degree certain I'll say representations of their civilization still exist upon your planet to a degree. For example, there are portions of your planet which to a large extent are what you would term to be hollow. Many in a sense portions of the civilizations which have crossed the face of your planet. Some of them exist within at this time, one which operates on a different vibratory level. Also, you will find that there is in a sense at any time an offshoot mass consciousness creates for itself another reality idea. There will be the creation in a sense of a parallel vibrating earth that will then contain that idea no longer contained on that one. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** Not totally. Do you understand the idea of parallel world? Kind of.

**Bashar:** Allow me to say that everything, every idea exists here and now, overlapping as it were, separated only by the ideas of different vibrational rates of existence. Do you follow that? There is an infinite number of parallel worlds for every idea that is expressed. You will find there to be a similar yet slightly different idea existing on a slightly different vibrational level. They will overlap and coexist yet be unaware of each other. Do you find that to be understood? Yes.

**Questioner:** Does this take a physical form like another planet in a sense?

**Bashar:** Realize that to you they do not seem physical. To them you do not seem physical.

**Questioner:** When you speak of these hollows, is that on this planet like subterranean or... Yes.

### On Mermaids, Werewolves, and Leprechauns

**Questioner:** Are there such things as mermaids and werewolves and leprechauns somewhere within the earth?

**Bashar:** Not in your sense of the meaning. You will find that they represent what is turned to be an entirely created subconscious archetypal energy consciousness universe. In that sense, they are real. They have their own self-awareness, their own consciousness. They are completely created by the subconscious projection of your own creator. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** Are they the effect of us then?

**Bashar:** In a sense, as any reflection would be an effect for you as you would be affected by any reflection you chose to make yourself aware of. Realize they represent in very many ways certain types of symbolic forms of energies that you allow yourself to deal with. Yet they are the physical translation of those energies that have no physical reality. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** Is it possible to make physical contact with these beings?

**Bashar:** Only in a sense. If you were to allow yourself to make, as you say, physical contact with this archetypal subconscious universe, you yourself would in very many ways be removed from your own reality. Hence, you will find your stories of, as you say, humans visiting these archetypes and yet disappearing from sight to their fellow humans to do so. You will meet on an intervening dream reality ground where you can both share the same type of physicality. It will not be the physicality of their world. It will not be the physicality of yours.

### On Energy Vortexes and the Bermuda Triangle

**Questioner:** I read there are different vortexes here on Earth. Energy vortexes of some kind. Can you explain what they are and where some of them are here?

**Bashar:** Just as your own physical form has what you term to be energy vortices which connect it to all of the different dimensional understandings and realities of itself, so does a world. So does a galaxy. So does a universe have doorways and connection points between various levels of reality and expression. They are simply those gateways of energy which form the overlaps. Do you follow me? Where we overlap into another dimension. Yes.

**Questioner:** Is that what the Bermuda Triangle is in the Superstition Mountains of Arizona? To a degree.

**Questioner:** Is there any reality to the whole concept of the Bermuda Triangle and all that kind of stuff? Yes, to a degree. You will find it to be very closely also connected to certain energy levels of vibration which were instituted and still ongoing in what you turned to be Atlantis.

### On Crystals

**Questioner:** Are you talking about the crystal there? To a degree. More you will find that the crystal idea represents an idea already existent. It is in a sense the physicalization of a certain recognition of a certain type of energy, as most crystals will be. That is why as you and your planet step up in a sense in vibration, your physical selves will resonate in a more crystalline fashion and your physical bodies will in a sense become slightly more crystalline, just as your earth will.

**Questioner:** So are you saying then that the crystal and the idea of the crystal, like the crystal of Atlantis for instance, and also other types of crystals that have been used for various psychic purposes, is that more of an ideology of the directing and the concentrating of certain types of psychic energy?

**Bashar:** You want to call it psychic. Yes, to a degree it is the physical counterpart of the cohesiveness within the bond between one level of energy and another. They are in very many ways solid doorways.

**Questioner:** Does the crystal of Atlantis physically exist today?

**Bashar:** Yes, more than one. I'll say your species is aware of at least 12.

**Questioner:** Aware of? Does that mean we know the location of? No. What would happen if we found a crystal? Does that have any value to us?

**Bashar:** You will not find it until you are ready to find it. Anybody here in this group ready? Has anyone found one?

### On International Trade and Abundance

**Questioner:** Nick and I are working together and we're in a very nice expansion and taking off in some professional areas and some international trade areas, and I was just wondering if you have any advices of any kind of a nature on that.

**Bashar:** You will find that while I will not outline your path for you, it will rob you of too much fun. You will find that there will be associations with at least three of the different cultures you will come in contact with, which will allow you direct access, if you wish, to certain physical remnants of various civilizations which have existed upon your planet. Each of these may be used by you as signposts for yourself to know that you have brought yourself closer to an expanded awareness of your own whole total being. All right.

**Questioner:** How does this translate into money right now?

**Bashar:** Are you worried? No, I'm interested. Abundance.

**Bashar:** Perhaps realize that when you focus your energy upon the idea of worrying about not having something, you are telling yourself that you believe you will not have it. Your reality will reflect that belief. You may simply again allow yourself to know that the vibration of abundance is equal to your own. Realize that you are a creator. You are an automatic creator. You do not have to know the how of acquiring, the how of creating. Simply allow yourself to know that your self-image right here and right now of your time as you know it to exist is equal to that idea. Allow the creation to take care of itself. It will do so. Otherwise, if you focus on just this particular method, you will close behind you all the other doors through which that idea may have come. Being very stubbornly focused on only one gate, waiting and waiting, tapping your foot, wondering why it never shows up when it is knocking on the door you have locked all the time. Thank you.

### On Bashar's Physical Form and Lifespan

**Questioner:** I'm curious about the physical forms of beings in your civilization, of your youth. For instance, you will find us in your terms to be approximately of an average 5 feet of your height. You will find our, as you say, skin colorations will be white, grayish-white. You will find that females will have in your terms what you call hair, males will not, for the most part at all, ever. You will find that if you wish there to be a similarity between species upon your planet, you would liken us to in a sense a mixture of what you turn to be American Indian and Asian.

**Questioner:** So basically humanoid. What you turn to be humanoid. Yes. It's more similar to Reticulians than... you will find that we are more similar physically to you. In other words, if we were to have closer to your normally accepted range of skin coloration, you would not notice us walking down your street.

**Questioner:** I have a question. Are some of you walking down our street? I don't mean that accusatively, but I feel like I've known you before and I feel a great affinity for you.

**Bashar:** Personally, our civilization? No. Other civilizations? Yes.

### On Birth and Forgetfulness

**Questioner:** Do you still have babies the way we have here on Earth? Do you still use the sexual? For the most part, yes, you will find. However, the difference is mostly mental. In other words, we will know exactly who that being is before they are born, what their purpose is and exactly how to integrate that idea.

**Questioner:** The second question would be after we leave our bodies here, we have this forgetfulness. We don't remember where we came from. Most of us anyway. At what level of awareness do you reach where you know where you're going? You understand when you get there where you came from?

**Bashar:** While you are non-physical, you will be aware of that idea. Any time you choose to project yourself in a sense into what you turn to be any limiting dimensionality, you will create the limitations which will represent those ideas you need to experience in that reality. All those limitations are self-imposed, including totally your idea of karma. There is no outside judgment. There is truly no outside. All of you are collectively all that is. Your idea of karma is simply that sense of your own self-growth. That sense of your own self-purpose. There is no judgment imposed upon you from outside. There is no outside.

### On the Pyramids

**Questioner:** What was the purpose of the pyramids on our planet?

**Bashar:** They served in a sense once again in many, many ways very similar to the idea of crystallization of the focus of energy forms. You will find they had in your terms purpose in being in allowing individuals to tune their vibratory fields to those which would allow them expansion of awareness, out of body travel. You will find also some of the earlier pyramids which no longer physically exist upon the face of your planet were also for in a sense directional navigation.

**Questioner:** Did they have crystals on top of them?

**Bashar:** A few pyramids built with the assistance of... last time, very early ones. A few. Realize though that very early civilizations upon your world function in a very, very different way from the way you see yourselves functioning now. Many of them were very, very easily in tune with certain ideas that you only assume you require technology to accomplish. They knew quite readily what they were doing. They had assistance from civilizations but really that knowledge was available to them here upon your world as well.

**Questioner:** When you say early, approximately how many years ago is this?

**Bashar:** Some of what you term to be your idea of Atlantis will exemplify the remnants of that idea. That will be between 12 and 25,000 of your years ago. Also before, 50 to 75,000 of your years ago, there was very, very high degree of psychic awareness and emotional cognizance upon the face of your world. There were also a few civilizations which existed way before that in terms of time as you know it.

### On Automatic Creation

**Questioner:** Just slightly earlier you mentioned that we are all automatic creators. Would you expound on that as to why that is and how that comes about?

**Bashar:** There is nothing to expound. You are the creator. All that is, is. Therefore creation is automatic. Do you understand?

**Questioner:** Somewhat. I think I was looking for maybe a more mechanistic approach to that.

**Bashar:** That is true. Thank you. That does answer it.

### On Being a Prison Planet

**Questioner:** Has this planet ever been used as a dumping ground, a prison?

**Bashar:** No. If it were a prison, why would you hold the key?

You have free will You have unlimited creativity. You are your own reality.

Do not view yourselves with such disdain. 

It only allows you to continue to feel less than every other civilization. You're no one's prisoner. You're no one's experiment. You are your own, very valid, very creative, very loving reality. Find your question.


**Questioner:** It seems to me if I was to take a look at this planet from 20 miles away and look what was going on, it would look to be in very bad shape. Chaotic. Now, is there any planets that are more chaotic than this is my question?

**Bashar:** Yes. Realize that I'll say in your terms there were some that were so chaotic they no longer exist. I think you have done quite well. By no means in your terminology are you the low planet on your totem pole. 

That makes me feel better. Realize however that in our view all experiences are equal. None is worse, better, less, greater. Each has its purpose. Each is a learning experience. It is created out of an unending sense of expansion and awareness.
