personal identity


Many individuals upon your planet are experimenting with this idea at this time. You will understand that one approach will be with experimenting with as you say conductive materials rotating at a rapid rate for your planet. The cycle will be rotation at 2 and 1/2 times the rotational velocity of your world of a conductive material set within I'll say a electromagnetic ring which will feed back to that rotating material its own sense of buildup and field. 

There will be experimentation taking place within what you turn to be microwave energy which you will find once it reaches I'll say 10 to the 14th power on your level of measurement will also create that null field in which it will disassociate itself from the reality of your physical planet. 10 14 watt power power a level with 10 14 power all right understand it this way you have devices which you turn to B microwave appliance you follow me yes your highest setting upon that appliance multiply to the 14th power you will find that This will be very easily created once I'll say the conductive material is set in rotation. When all conditions are met, you will really find it quite difficult to stop the effect from happening. But realize again, you're not really going anywhere. What do you turn to be hyperspace? Is that infinite acceleration which allows the ship to truly stand still and simply allow all of time and space to rotate round about it while its navigational system points in a sense to the place it wishes to go and reemerges there. Stops the wheel from rotating and gets off.


## Orion

**Question:** When I look at the constellation of Orion, there's three stars that form the belt that seem to be the same intensity. Are they uh coordinated in some way?

**Answer:** Only in a sense and only in a sense towards your consciousness and your need to understand that form. It is representational to a degree the entire constellation as you say of our relationship as you see us to you. also serious will form in a sense certain ideas relative to your understanding of yourself with regard to vast future self and to us from our points of view. You will find that you your star will form a part of a constellation if we wish to create constellations in that direction which will be representative symbolically of your relationship to us. 

**Question:** Bretharians, uh, supposedly there's some people on our planet who breathe air. That's how they sustain their body. Um, do you have anything you could add to that? Who breathe air. They don't need food. They don't need to eat at all. All right. Supposedly, you will find that this will be the ability of, I'll say, a few individuals upon your planet at this time to a degree. However, you will find that it will be mostly because they have, I'll say, refocused their sense of time. It is not that they would not need to sustain themselves that way. It is simply that not enough time has passed for them to feel that they are getting hungry.

**Answer:** Wouldn't the body then deteriorate if they weren't standing once again? Time doesn't change. Realize that when you are completely focused for many, many, many of your hours in an endeavor, whether you have eaten or not, do you know if you are hungry until you stop?

**Questioner:** No.

**Answer:** Therefore, understand that it is to a degree that idea hyper accelerated consciousness, which to you seems as if the individual is spending an entire lifetime, whereas to them it is but well, I'll say perhaps a few hours. They're totally refocused in a sense in another time.

**Question:** Another question. One moment. Yes. I have a question about knowledge. When you were discussing with that gentleman some of the technical things and this has happened many times before. I feel a sense of I know all that but don't quite know it. Do we come into the slides knowing all the knowledge and intentionally blocking out in a sense?

**Answer:** Yes. Realize however also that at this time your familiarity with that idea will be because your consciousness is now allowing for that possibility for that reality. You do know all you need to know simply it will be up to you how willing you are to find those portions within yourself of yourself that will bring you those awarenesses to yourself. Be follow me.

**Questioner:** How does yeah how does studies fit into that study that all right will be one method that you have of sharing information between individuals that you have created physically realize that you will really not need in your terms to study. Once you allow yourself to simply identify with an idea you will absorb all the information you need in one reading. You follow me?
**Questioner:** reading in the technical sense or just reading in the perceptive sense.
**Answer:** Both or either whatever symbol works for you will be the same thing. When we get this realization one moment.

**Question:** Yes. Yes. My question is about religion and you have mentioned earlier that we were the only planet who had religion in that sense. In that sense I think other planets and the world how do they expect express their spiritual spirit by living it? Well if there are planets who are in worse condition than us that does not mean that they have religion. No but how do they express their spirituality? Do they have uh no way of expressing it?
**Answer:** You will find there will be more in the terms of what you call ritual or what you express originally as natural ritual which you have come to understand as I'll say druidic practice.
**Questioner:** What's that mean?
**Answer:** In other words, there are societies upon your planet who do not express religion per se, but simply exercise their direct understanding of their connection to nature in ways that to you seem like religious practices.
**Questioner:** Uhhuh.
**Answer:** But is not a religion. Not per se. Not as you understand the idea of religion.
**Questioner:** Uhhuh.
**Answer:** Realize that to them they understand that they are a part of that nature. They are simply forming a relationship to it through symbology that is not really a religion as you understand religion.
**Questioner:** Mhm. Okay.

**Questioner:** Yes. What the thing I was going to say was more as a comment that uh that as soon as we understand what you're trying to tell us and we we come to a realization that we are creators and we don't necessarily need need you or very good
**Answer:** thank you realize that I am not trying to tell you that I am telling you that right thank you once you allow yourselves to be completely equal then in a sense we can coingle as equals And then we will be sharing with each other and both will be teachers and students at the same time.
**Questioner:** Thank you very much.

**Question:** Have you had the one moment? Yes. Um I forgot. All right. Yes. Did you have a lifetime or few lifetimes on this planet?
**Answer:** No.
**Questioner:** You remember it now? One moment. All right. only in a sense, not as I understand my own consciousness presently with my aray soul connection except except in the instances as you perceive and will perceive the three physical channels upon your planet at this time are what I may term to be my own past self. But since there is no time in a sense for us, we also understand it simply to be counterpart existing at the same time.
**Questioner:** So people on our planet will never go to your planet or can we choose to go there?
**Answer:** Yes.
**Questioner:** Okay. Thank you.

**Questioner:** Do you know your question? Yeah. um as individuals um some of us are would like to become more aware and and realize things but there's individuals in the mass consciousness that really don't want to be know or or really even hear so what well do do they affect us as a mass conscious if you wish them do
**Answer:** and by your question I would say that you are considering the possibility allow Ow yourself to take responsibility for yourself and yourself alone. Then you will be doing the most you can possibly do for any other individual who wishes to share your reality with you.
**Questioner:** What about the idiots and the morons? What about them? It's kind of hard for them to share. Oh, really? To the degree that we do.
**Answer:** Oh, really? Allow me to say there's more a case of your individuals who consider themselves to be complete as having the difficulty in sharing. Do you follow me?
**Questioner:** Yes. Thank you.

**Question:** I have a question. All right. I just wanted to know any knowledge you could share about the civilizations of the Aztec or the Inca. Thank you.
**Answer:** All right. You may understand first of all that, as you say, Aztec, particularly Incan and Mayan, are to a great degree ideas and civilizations which existed upon your world, which share much in common with civilizations of other worlds, and as such exist right now in other realities, and in a way from time to time visit you in what you term some of your UFO contacts. Understand that they were very well aware of their existence in dream reality and physical reality as being very real. Understand that they understood themselves to be vibration. Understand that they had a method of simply changing their vibration and as such changing their universe. And so you will find that in terms of your physical understanding of those civilizations, they ended quite abruptly. Some of them mysteriously. Where did they go? They changed their viewpoint. And so you no longer perceive them.
**Questioner:** Wow.
**Answer:** Realize that they had intimate understanding of themselves as living lasers. They understood the energy which can be focused through crystals. And you will find that they performed in your terms surgery upon the brain. Understanding as they did that the brain is really your spaceship is really a point for point. I'll say analogy of the entire universe and that in the very center of your brain there exists a doorway to all reality which you turn to be a black hole to other dimensions of reality. And as such they understood that they could simply tune their brain to another frequency to allow themselves to step through that doorway and vanish. You will find there will be physical remains upon your planet of many many many as you say physical skulls of that time which bear marks of what you turn to be surgery. Whereas your civilization had assumed that they were not in your terms sophisticated enough to have performed such surgery. But still you do not understand why they performed that surgery. It was to tune the brain to other levels of existence to change the electrical paths and the rate of momentum of that electromechanical chemical stimulation. You will find that there exists upon your planet a map that they left behind for you. It will be in representation of your human skull entirely made out of crystal. It will be in existence at this time physically having been discovered several of your years ago and will be an energy map of exactly those points in the brain which they altered which will allow you to explore any dimension of reality. [Applause]
**Questioner:** Where what where is this map?
**Answer:** It has been I know where you will find it exists for the most part I would say in that country you call Canada at this time. Will that have answered your question?
**Questioner:** Yes. Thank you very much.
**Answer:** Oh no. Thank you very much. Does not. You may go and see it if you wish. You may contact an organization in that country which you understand as being known in your terms the museum of mankind.

**Questioner:** I know it is. What can you tell us about the yeti that which is known as sass?
**Answer:** Very very good. Understand that that directly relates to her question and that many of those individuals understanding themselves to be a primal energy connected to nature are in a sense allowing themselves to interdimensionally visit you from time to time in that form as well. They exist being able to transfer themselves through time and as such that is why you have not found them. They are a manifestation of a certain I'll say archetypal subconscious energy with regard to those civilizations which have tuned themselves to another frequency upon your planet yet still exist in a sense right here and right now and emerge from time to time into your reality.
**Questioner:** I thought they sort of existed like that they were one of the civilizations that came up from beneath the surface of the earth that simply hasn't been discovered yet.
**Answer:** In a sense is part of the same idea realized that many many civilizations understood there to be a difference of idea and expression by removing their civilization as you say beneath the surface from the surface. You may understand that there are many many many ideas of vibration and many locations upon your physical earth which still harbor I will say many remnants of those civilizations even to this day.
**Questioner:** question. Will we be able to will we eventually come into contact them and get to know them?
**Answer:** Yes and no. Instead of just hearing inquires and you will find that they will serve at this time more I will say of a subconscious archetypal energy for you to spur you on to discover those portions of yourself for yourself in your own path of your own choosing. I will say that once you allow yourself to understand your subconscious reality as real, I will say then you will allow yourself to come into physical contact with them for purposes which you will understand at that time.
**Questioner:** Thank you.

**Question:** How does one handle uh the resentment and judgment that seems to travel?
**Answer:** All right. Once again, understand that simply any judgment you feel to be coming to you is an opportunity for yourself to understand that judgment is not serving you best. Understand that when you allow yourself to judge another individual, once again, you must become equal to the vibration of judgment in order to do so. And therefore, at the same time, you are being self-judged. Do you follow me?
**Questioner:** But how do you avoid it? How do you avoid it?
**Answer:** Once again by understanding by knowing that you need not exclude from yourself any portion that you create for yourself to be shown to yourself by reflection through what you turn to be other individuals round and about your life who are reflecting portions of yourself that you are afraid to look at. Do you follow me?
**Questioner:** Yeah.
**Answer:** Therefore, accept all situations that you create for yourself, what you turn negative and positive, and understand them for the lessons that they are to yourself. And when you accept them, immediately you will be free of judgment. You will accept your life as you have created it. And you will not judge yourself for having done so. Any judgment is self judgment to a degree.

**Question:** One moment. Yes. Yes. Um Is the setting of purposes or guidelines is that is that unnecessary at any level? In other words, does your civilization do that to a degree?
**Answer:** You will find that once again, it is I'll say a method of expression in physical dimensionality. You will find simply, however, that within what you turn to be our purposes, our endeavors, there will always be only those individuals who are part and parcel of that idea. The words, there will never be an individual within a particular endeavor who does not want to be there. You follow me?
**Questioner:** Yes. Yes.

**Questioner:** Is all fear related back to the fear of death?
**Answer:** Nope. Fear of power.
**Questioner:** Wow. What? What is that power?
**Answer:** Yourself. Fear of identifying yourself as all that is and therefore having to take token responsibility for your
**Questioner:** But it is only because you view responsibility as blame that you have the fear instead of allowing yourself to review the idea of responsibility, I would say, as choice, free will.
**Questioner:** as expectation as creativity. Earlier you saying that um that the fear is was one of the things that brought about a creative pressure. What other things bring about that creative pressure?
**Answer:** any endeavor which you allow yourself to understand yourself as being at the center. When you understand yourself as being at the center completely of any creation, you will be standing in the doorway to any reality. And there you may always feel that pressure of creation. And when you allow yourself to step through that doorway, whatever momentum you take with you will because of that pressure manifest itself into other consciousness, into other reality. Understand that in very many ways that is why creation created the pressure in a sense.
**Questioner:** Are we not therefore then like co-creators you are with God?
**Answer:** Yes.
**Questioner:** Does your civilization have a concept of mortality and immortality?
**Answer:** Once again we have as you say physical bodies which we require for a certain period of time as you know time to exist then we shift our viewpoint and require them no longer.
**Questioner:** So you're saying that if you decided to stay at you could stay at that viewpoint as long as you wanted.
**Answer:** We have, I'll say, to a degree that understanding we will find at this time that our understanding of our own purposes, our own expansion of ourselves will create for us a time span, a lifespan of approximately 300 of your years. That will be suiting our purpose at this time. If our purpose changes, our lifespan will change.
**Questioner:** When you re when you realize these abilities that you have and you become um very much creative compared to what you were, does it more or less take like quantum leaps in the advance that you go ahead?
**Answer:** But it is realizing that you are always as creative as you ever will be. That is what creates the quantum leaps. You were not less creative a moment ago. You were simply making different creations. You yourself are setting the judgment of better. You are always the best. You are always perfectly creating perfect.
**Questioner:** Thank you. Thank you.

**Question:** Question. Uh what do you mean Bashar when you say living laser?
**Answer:** All right. Do you understand the concept of your laser as coherent light?
**Questioner:** No.
**Answer:** All right. Understand that your light what you term electromagnetic spectrum as you say has frequencies. Do you understand that it is only a difference in the frequency of the electromagnetic wave which forms the difference between what you call red light and green light.
**Questioner:** Okay.
**Answer:** It is the same energy. Red light I'll say vibrates at a lower frequency than green. And that is why it is red. That is why you perceive it as different. You may understand that what he terms will be white light contains all frequencies. That is why it is white. Do you follow me so far?
**Questioner:** Yes.
**Answer:** Therefore, you may understand that when you have only one wavelength, say red, it may still be out of step. You will find it will just be red light, but it will be everywhere. Do follow me.
**Questioner:** Mhm.
**Answer:** When you allow the wavelengths to become as you say in step or coherent or locked together, each wavelength locked into every other wavelength, it will form a tight columnated beam of light. Hence your laser which has much focus of that electromagnetic power within a very small area. Do you follow me?
**Questioner:** Yes.
**Answer:** Therefore, if you understand yourself as vibrations, as a collection of vibrations, you will understand that every idea you hold to be an object will simply be solidified coherent vibrations. And that is what you perceive as an object. But because you are also light, because everything is light in a sense is electromagnetic in nature, you are living light. You are living lasers, coherent light.
**Questioner:** Thank you.

**Question:** I have a one moment. Go ahead. I have a two question on your do you have entertainers as we everyone who wishes to entertain does so. Well um do you have it in the same way that we do where there's some sort of relationship between one person as a creator and a number to a degree.
**Answer:** You will find many individuals will express that I will say more often in your terms of time than other individuals. But that will not necessarily always be the only thing they do.
**Questioner:** What is your second part? Well, that was kind of the uh second part, but in um for performers here, how would you describe their effect or their relationship in terms of the way we react with ideas?
**Answer:** When any individual allows themselves complete creative freedom within any of those endeavors, they will be enacting in very much the same way as any performer. As you say, in any civilization will be able to allowing yourself simply the freedom to explore portions of yourself and express them in a way is a form of channeling those portions of yourself and as such is a way of being those portions of yourself for that time. And so since you are being a portion of yourself, another portion of yourself for that time, then you are being equal to that idea completely and as such then you are fulfilling yourself as a creator perfectly. Do you follow me?
**Questioner:** Mhm. Thank you.

**Question:** Yes. Yes. One question is in regards to the uh mythology of the Greek gods and so on you know Olympus these beings these people time
**Answer:** why yes why do I wish about
**Questioner:** you just being curious
**Answer:** I have there is no such thing as idle curiosity when you have a curiosity It is because you are exploring portions of yourself which have relevance and meaning to you. Therefore, it shall always be done in a way that is most creative which will allow you to discover the most about yourself.
**Questioner:** What do you think about that?
**Answer:** I think it's pretty good.
**Questioner:** Thank you.

**Questioner:** He just said what? Thank you. Question. Question. Yes. What is one moment? What is your viewpoint on what laughter is and what humor is?
**Answer:** Very good. Laughter allowing that energy within you is at that moment being equal to every probability within yourself. Nothing is impossible from that viewpoint. Do you follow me? It is the vibration of complete and total abundance and creativity. It is also the vibration of knowing. [Music]

**Question:** question. What group of people or earth culture do you feel is closest to reaching the point of changing their um no thank you.
**Answer:** I will not single anyone out as being better or worse, closer, farther. All of you have your own expression of that transformation within you and all of you will make that transformation together in one way, shape or form.
**Questioner:** Wow.

**Question:** question question. Um all right. Do you eat only in a sense?
**Answer:** I will say foods which are very very very simple in nature mostly as you know them to exist fruits, vegetables but we will also have what you would deem to be a synthetic food which is not. It is a general purpose idea which was created by our mass consciousness and as such is quite organic but is not natural in your sense of the world to begin with with the planet.
**Questioner:** Thank you.

**Question:** May I ask one moment? Yes. What how do you understand the phenomena of falling in love?
**Answer:** All right. Once again it is very very very close to last time. Again is simply the allowance by you to be all that you are. Knowing that you are already complete and feeling that pressure of creation in a very positive sharing way of knowing that you are everything else, everyone else that you are all that is.
**Questioner:** Yikes.

**Questioner:** It was only with respect to the uh food that you develop on your planet that is organic and fulfilled the necessity. I just recently read that the Japanese people have created a substance that they're using to package food and they expect this to be developed into same concept I believe as you across. Is that true? Are they reaching in a sense?
**Answer:** To a point I would say they have an understanding of that idea to a point. Yes. will be quite different I would say from what we view at this time but it will be a step in that direction. Yes.

**Question:** How how do you explain obesity on this planet? There's millions of dollars being spent in our country and everywhere around the world. How can those of us that are really interested in trying to change still affect the change on the physical body when certain things that we're doing don't work?
**Answer:** All right. Understand first of all that anything which as you say does not work upon the physical body is because your idea of yourself has not changed. Your body will always worry very obediently being the shadow of your soul exactly take the shape that you have within yourself in terms of your self-image. Therefore also I will say by way of analogy which is I'll say exclusive to your language at this time you have by analogy an opportunity to understand that wait is caused by waiting by lack of motion waiting. When you allow yourself to wait, to hang back, do not step through your own doorways, do not create energy motion, right? Then there is apathy waiting and so you become overweight.
**Questioner:** Yes.

**Questioner:** I see this somewhat of a triad on this planet amongst cultures and I'm just getting this line between the Egyptian race with that of the aspect and god and so on and then something going more east. Yes. Were you going to be Asian? Yes. Yes. Could you expand on that for me?
**Answer:** I will say it forms a root triad of energy upon your world at this time that you are rediscovering with regard to your primal points of origin. In as such as many of you are now allowing yourself to go back in a sense to that point of your first agreement of your lives upon this world. Now reliving the contract and understanding that it is time for a new contract with your status.
**Questioner:** Thank you.

**Questioner:** Do you have telepathic communication? I realize that is what is going on right now between myself and the channel. Do you have telepathic communication with anyone in this room other than the channel?
**Answer:** Once again, to a degree. realize that that is a direct emotional experience and that there will always be some degree of telepathic communication between us when we are communicating with each other. However, I will say that since you have chosen to choose the idea of vocalization for your method of communication, which represents commitment of an idea, that when you vocalize, we will accept your idea as having validity to you. When you do not, then you are telling us that you wish it not to be shared, and as such, we will not touch it. We will not invade your sense of what you wish to keep to yourself because you can quite readily keep it to yourself and we can have no awareness of it if that is what you wish.
**Questioner:** Thank you. You are a creator. You can shut down portions of yourself. You can be unwilling to share your emotionality and as such put yourself I'll say out of communication, out of touch. But I will say that there is much in the way of that emotional sharing with many of you when we are communicating even when we are not communicating and for that I will say thank you very much.

**Question:** All right. Uh there's an idea that uh that exists that a person can be on in some other time and some other possible universe that we can be implanted with uh something that we do not wish to have.
**Answer:** Not against your agreement. No. Not against your belief system. No.
**Questioner:** You don't think so?
**Answer:** I know. So, okay.

**Questioner:** Yes. Um uh speaking of communication, um All right. Very good. Yeah. All right. When we when we uh for example, I communicate with with what apparently is is is a lot of beings a lot telepathically. Is it possible that that any of your people that I could communicate with or any of my people?
**Answer:** Realize that we are always sending you energy, but realize that you're also communicating with many portions of your own consciousness which you have assumed to be outside of yourself. Do you follow me?
**Questioner:** Yes, I follow you.
**Answer:** Understand that what you turn to be telepathic communication can go on between a portion of yourself and another portion of yourself which has its own identity which has its own self-aware consciousness and in a way is really separate from you but in a way is really a portion of your overall soul self
**Questioner:** in the sense that we are all one or or that this in the sense that you have an oversoul self which extends portions of itself into many many many different lives and many different levels of reality at the same time and in the sense of all being one guess if you wish.
**Answer:** But understand that I will say allow me to say that at this time 60% are extensions of yourself. 30% to a degree are broken up into different ideas of communication with other consciousnesses. Some direct, some you are tapping into which are not communicating in a way directly to you. And the other percentage in a way involves other levels of imagination which are only now beginning to explore. I will say there is communication to a degree. Also since we are sending you energy constantly, you will always taste our flavor in that idea and in a way you may allow yourself to identify with that idea as a portion of your future self.
**Questioner:** Thank you. Thank you.

**Question:** What do you think of hunting? The sport of hunting here on
**Answer:** No, thank you. Do I need to tell you?
**Questioner:** Well, I take it negative if you're not going to tell me.
**Answer:** Oh, really? Allow me to simply say that we would rather communicate with the animals than shoot them. Simply allow me to ask you, do you feel the same way?
**Questioner:** Yes, I do not.
**Answer:** Well, all right then. Then make that your reality. Does not make any difference what we think about it.
**Questioner:** Is your planet or just curious again?
**Answer:** There is no vital curiosity. Curiousness is yourself leading yourself down the paths you know you need to be exploring without really tipping yourself off. [Laughter] Thank you.

**Question:** Is there any connection between our planet and the pleades?
**Answer:** Oh yes.
**Questioner:** Oh you want to know?
**Answer:** I think I would if you have if you have something to say simply allow me to say that it is a different sort of connection. It is a different sort of an idea which is allowing you to understand certain other emotionalities, mentalities, spiritualities and structures of society that you may be I'll say creating for yourselves at this time. All encounters of that sort will always be acting as mirrors for you so that you may understand that what you are now exploring with these ideas are previews of your own self in your future as you wish your society to be. Do you follow me?
**Questioner:** Thank you.

**Questioner:** Do you have babies?
**Answer:** Yes.
**Questioner:** Do you wear a lot of clothes in your society? I mean or
**Answer:** you will find that we will have to a degree certain as you say garments of expression when and where the feeling is called for. However, we will for the most part find that very simple functional one piece fitting garment will suit us. No pun intended.
**Questioner:** I say I intended a small pun

**Question:** Is there such a thing as a soulmate in a sense?
**Answer:** However, I will say at this time, you will always be aware when you find exactly that relationship you need, soulmate or not. Realize that to a degree you need not form that label as it may be limiting for you in terms of what you will allow yourself to understand you are teaching yourself with that relationship. I will simply say that any relationship you form to a degree will be because of a soul association and that you will have chosen that relationship to explore various portions of each other and that will always have beneficial effects when you allow it to will always allow you to know more of your own self and therefore more of your own soul and therefore every relationship can be viewed as a soulmate to a degree. I will say, however, that you will from time to time encounter those individuals with which you have an association or affinity that you know is a signpost for you at having created for yourself another cycle, another wave of energy that you recognize as a new transition for yourself, a transformation. And those will be of some importance to you. In that way, you will feel more connected to them. And so, in that way, you will experience soulmates.
**Questioner:** Thank you.

**Question:** on your planet. Uh do you have social activities to meet people like dances and going to nightclubs or is it more a case of you knew before you're born who you're going to like marry and that sort of stuff?
**Answer:** Realize that once again there is to a degree some relationships which I'll say perform the same function for the entire life but some that do not. I will say that we do not need those occasions to meet but do enjoy them and create them anyway. But that is because we have already met everyone in a sense in our society and feel very comfortable I'll say initiating an occasion for no other reason than the initiation of that occasion to express that joy.

**Question:** One moment. Yes. What is your school system like? What is your education about?
**Answer:** You will find very briefly that simply there will be no separation between that idea of institution of education and life itself as we feel that learning by doing is through education. Therefore, we will not limit or restrict I will say those individuals who are learning from actually being able to experience firsthand most situations which will then give them a true working knowledge of the situation rather than simple wrote memorization. Do you follow me?
**Questioner:** Yes.

**Questioner:** The monetary system of our government at this time seems to be very shaky and there has been a lot of talk about devaluation of the dollar where we've carried in uh $10 of our money for $1. Uh do you see this happening in the very near future?
**Answer:** Realize that in a sense your as you say monetary system will devalue as it becomes unnecessary when you replace it with the value of individuals in your society. Instead realize that is why we have no monetary system. Each individual is valued for his or her own services and everyone provides all that is necessary automatically. Service for service where needed.
**Questioner:** Okay. Thank you.
**Answer:** Thank you. I will say that will bury in your terms of time a few minutes more question.

**Question:** Is hunting a form of communication?
**Answer:** only in a sense. You will find that you may allow yourself to explore certain ideas of your connections to nature through the animals if you allow yourself simply to hunt, as you say, them telepathically. And when you find them, allow them to talk to you about that experience rather than ending the conversation. [Laughter] Thank you.

**Question:** What are the six disasters that you spoke of earlier that we will
**Answer:** No, thank you.

**Questioner:** you talked about I think you mentioned the word God.
**Answer:** Oh, did I? All right. Well, anyway, uh uh from what I understand is that [Applause] uh there's no such thing except that that it's a certain vibration. It maybe serves a purpose and it's a type of self. But uh other than that, What what did your feelings learn about?
**Answer:** Our understanding is simply that all that is is all that is and you are all that is. It is self-aware on one level of its own understanding of itself. But also you are all that is collectively and it understands that you are great. All of you are simply all the different ways that all that is has of looking at itself.
**Questioner:** Okay. I wanted to ask one more question. You know, when you're talking to someone else who on on this planet has a different body, um, to what degree are you talking to yourself?
**Answer:** Realize that which you may do any way if you wish, but we will let you tell yourself what you feel you would rather have sticking around in your reality.

**Questioner:** All right, question. All right. Uh, you uh have an expanse of knowledge.
**Answer:** As do you. Do you see why we will not let you have our pictures? You would put them on altars.
**Questioner:** Okay. No, but my question is, did you spend a lot of time uh studying this planet and what's been happening here?
**Answer:** Any sense? Although realize once again that time for us is quite fluid.

**Questioner:** I have a question. I'm sorry.
**Answer:** Do not be sorry. This lady's question prompts. Uh are you saying in a sense that we can then uh protect ourselves from the disasters that
**Questioner:** everybody
**Answer:** there is nothing to protect yourself from? That is the idea.
**Questioner:** As long as they don't exist in our own mind,
**Answer:** not in your mind. As long as you allow yourself to integrate within your beliefs that you contain all those probabilities and that they are all right to be there, then you may simply understand the purpose for which you created those original disasters and re channel the energy into a non-disastrous form. But not by feeling that you need to protect yourself. That will be reinforcing the idea of disaster. Otherwise, you would not feel the need to be protected. All is created from within your center. Allow yourself simply to feel your centers. Live your lives. Allow yourself to create as much happiness as you wish anytime you wish and you will find your momentum in your own understanding of yourself will reach infinite speed whenever you wish it to and as such will create perfect peace. Then I will say thank you very much and I will say good evening.
**All:** Good evening. Good evening. Thank you.

**Answer:** Allow me to say how are you all?
**All:** Great.
**Answer:** Good evening. We will find next week of your time that we will explore more ideas of your own connections to yourself within that group that will manifest as a consciousness. You may always continue to understand yourselves in that way.