---
heading: Part 1
title: "Expression and Vibration Recognition"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2024-01-20
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
tags: ['']
weight: 1885
---



**What shall we call you?**

Call me Bashar.


realize that your idea of what you turn to belly communication between you having taken in your terms vocalization will represent that when you are willing in a sense to live a certain reality experience a certain frame of mind be willing to believe in your own conviction Then you will be in a sense willing to vocalize to share among you those innermost dreams, those thoughts, desires that you wish to manifest within your reality.

Realize that when in a sense keep to yourself an idea, do not live outwardly, speak outwardly, be outwardly that idea. In a sense, it always remains within what I will call your blueprint stage. If you allow yourself to be, think, speak, breathe, an idea, share those inner thoughts, feelings, desires, you will be acting out that reality. You will find that no one will be able in a sense to invade your thoughts when you wish to keep them to yourselves. This is your choice always. You all have free will. You will always find. But nothing in a sense can happen without your agreement. The agreement of your innermost beliefs will always determine the reality. You allow yourself to experience. Do you all follow me?

I was thinking of after last week's uh talk and that was um with regard to in your civilization um somebody had asked about sex and you said that you you basically something like you had sex in generally the same way but uh it was different um there were differences as far as mental something like that. I was just interested in a little bit more detail on what what the differences are and how how it is with your civilization.

**Bashar:** Hungu, first of all, you will find that with regard to what you call the newborn child, we will already understand exactly who and why they are there. Do you follow me? Yes. We will have in a sense telepathic conversation with that being from before the moment of conception. The idea that that being has chosen its parents and for what reasons it wishes to express the reality it is now being born into will all be very very clear from the moment of even the conception of the idea of the birth. Do you follow me? Yeah. Therefore, you will find that what you turn to be in fact will be already considered to be very wellware when it enters the physical world of its own sense of purpose and that it has chosen those, as you say, adults to supply a particular atmosphere of which they are also very well aware. in order for that being to fulfill its particular purpose and function and goal. Do you follow me? Yes. Thank you. Mostly you will find that simply that will be the main idea difference in that all choices are very transparent and apparent on the surface. Do you follow me? Mhm. Thank you.

**Question.**
Um, you mentioned last week that your people have a resemblance to the American Indian and the Asiatic of this planet except that the skin coloring is different. Similar. Yes. And I was wondering if if the physical appearance is due to emotional or you know like similarities and wavelength of the philosophies of these two people.

**Bashar:** Very good. To a degree on one level I will say that is accurate. However you will find also there will be in general from civilization to civilization slight modifications which you will usually not always but usually be able to find within your own civilization to some degree. Do you follow me? Yeah. You will find that in your terms I will say approximately I say 90% of civilizations you would encounter will be in your terms humanoid. You follow me? Yeah. This will be the representative idea of an energy which is translated into physical form is no accident that you have the form you do. You will find that to be a similar idea on many many many of the planets you will encounter.

Okay. Um I have what does the American Indian on this planet from the past have a role in you know does the American Indian play a role on this planet a specific role?

**Bashar:** Each and every civilization each and every being on your world plays a specific role within the overall idea of the mass consciousness identity of your planet. You'll find that what you turn to be American Indian will be indicative of that ability to exist within physical and non-physical reality simultaneously as experienced in your daytoday as you say physical life. You'll find that the interaction as you say of that culture with your own culture will exemplify that ability of your culture now to explore its non-physical side and the ability of that culture to explore its more physical side and form an integration between the two ideals. Do you follow me? Yes, I do. Thank you.

**Question.**
You said earlier in uh your monologue today that um that there was some negativity in withholding um your a person's own thoughts.

**Bashar:** Not negativity. No, did not say negativity.

Well, no. That's a summary of what I thought that you said. But what did you say in reference to a person with their own thoughts? Is there some negativity connected with that?

**Bashar:** Not really. No, simply that you will find it will be little bit more difficult for that ideal reality to manifest physically.

Mhm. Well, isn't that dependent upon the person's own abilities?

**Bashar:** It's dependent upon the person's own willingness to be that idea.

But they can they can be that idea without necessarily um showing it.

**Bashar:** Allow me to say that any idea that you truly find yourself being equal with will be your reality. Do you follow me? Mhm. Either that or it will in a sense remain a reality in another level. In this level, what you would term dream reality, non-physical reality will be real. Yes. Will not be manifest into your physical reality. But you allow it to do so. But if you have an idea and um you can make that idea which is your own illusion, you can make that reality. Uh isn't it uh wise to project that reality into the environment in a way that may not necessarily be bold and direct but can be achieved through whatever medium the person desires. Can we achieve any way they desire? However, simply what I'm saying is that you do very boldly create your reality every moment of time as you know time to exist without giving it a second thought. You have simply created a differentiation between what you think to be your reality and the desire or the idea of desire in creating it. Really, it is so second nature to you, you may not even realize that you had just as intense a desire to create the reality you now experience as any other idea you may wish to experience. Do you follow me? Yes. So, what you're saying is that uh the creation of reality is the senior point and whether you communicate it or not communicate it is depend up to you. You will always create reality always. Which reality you wish to create is always up to you. All right, that's fair. Very yes.

[Music]

Yeah, I still have a question. All right. Uh I I didn't totally get my question answered in before. I was wanting to know more. I understand as far as with the babies go. Uh that clarified that more but I wanted to know more with regards to your love relationship.

**Bashar:** All right. First of all realize that when in your terms you say your questions are not totally answered that allows you the opportunity to answer them yourselves. Yeah. Always we will give you that opportunity for we will never run your lives. This is your world your reality. You are equally a creator to every consciousness within the universe and as such contain all the information you need for your own reality. Do you follow me? Yeah. All right. You will find first of all that while there will be in your terms association between beings of our civilization with what you may turn to the immediate family. You will find that our idea of ourselves will be such that each and every member of our what you turn to be society will truly feel now not exactly your term but similar there is no other translation for now married to every other member of the society. Do you follow me? You will find there will be differences in attraction. Yes. However, you will always once again find that purposes for attraction will be very transparent. Do you follow me? Yes. There will be interaction between beings when purpose is recognized. There will always already be the love. Do you follow me? Always already be that love. Unconditional. You follow me? Yes.

**Question.**
Why are you here?

**Bashar:** One reason is because your identity consciousness at this time allows us to be here. You will find that when our viewpoint of you allows your viewpoint of yourself to expand into your own sense of creatorhood and equality, you will enrich the overall identity of all that is to a great degree. And in so enriching all that is allows us to expand ourselves even further creatively. In your terms, that is what we get out of it. You will find also that you have a desire to meet with our civilizations. But though there are in a sense a few physical face to face as you say contacts going on, you will find that on mass until you consider yourselves to be equal to yourselves within yourselves and to every other idea in the universe. We will not meet you until we meet you as equals. We do not wish to meet you when you consider yourself to be less or greater. Thank you.

**Question. I have a question.**
Uh when you when you talk about uh people asking questions and things like that, you usually say, "Well, find out for yourself." And all through history there's beams that came down maybe through Jesus or Muhammad or Buddha that laid certain paths out that work to a degree for people. Question is this if you you tell us things that are out of our reality about different people on different planets etc. But when someone asks you a direct question on a path or a methodology to go free on this planet you say well you'll find out for yourself and yet other teachers have come down and showed path.

**Bashar:** Allow me to say first of all that none of those teachers showed you a path other than a general idea that you also had the same ability to be like those individuals. real life. Very few individuals upon your planet have taken the path they indicated.

[Laughter]

Realize that when you allow yourselves to know that you are identically equal to those beings, then you will be living the path which they lived. Until then, you will have what he turned to be religion, which is only the following of an idea and not the doing of an idea. Do you follow me?

I follow you to the extent that they did lay out a methodology to get not to the not to anywhere but sort of showing you how to get on a path and they were sort of sort of advanced to the homo sapiens that were around at that time.

**Bashar:** One moment, one moment. One moment. One of the ideas that allows you to continue to separate yourself from them is the idea that they are more advanced. All consciousness is equal. realize that one of the ideas which many of you also did not get that they were trying to show you is that they were a direct product of the consciousness of your planet. But always always you have allowed yourselves to continue to project the idea of greatness away from yourselves. Now therefore, it is your desire to understand yourselves in that light and so you have allowed us to provide for you that function. You have been in a sense as you say shown a reflection of yourselves. Now you as a mass consciousness to a greater degree simply are asking for assistance in allowing yourselves to know that not to be told how to live but to be told that you already know how to live. We are only here to remind you of that which you already know. Your ideas of advancement are really only ideas of maintaining the idea of distance between us, separation between us. And as long as that idea exists, you will always consider yourselves to be the student and not the teacher. Do you follow me? That's it. Thank you very much.

**Question. I have a question.**
From your point of view, is there such a thing like as a divine plan for the evolution of soul as part of all it all? Or is each new all of creation a fresh creation into a void?

**Bashar:** Right here it comes. I'm sick. You may not really like this one. First of all, allow me in your terms to practice. Any time which you begin to sense within your physical here and now life the idea of paradox, you will find yourself dealing with higher consciousness which is in a sense extended beyond your physical dimensionality. And so my answer to you is both. Did you follow me?

What I assumed it was. Thank you. I was hoping it would be one of the answers.

**Bashar:** You will find that when you projected yourselves into physical reality, the idea in very real terms of physical reality in and of itself was created by creating the idea of polarity. Realize that in non-physical reality, polarity for the most part vanishes. All ideas are seen to be equal and coexistent. Only one of the earmarks of physical reality is that there can be an idea exclusive of its opposite. Now in your math consciousness, beginning to understand that each idea is also its own opposite. That the act and reaction are the same act. That the end is the means and the means is the end. One in the same idea. And so you will find that there is incense as you say a clan and that plan contains spontaneity. You follow me? Yes, I do. Thank you.

**Question.**
I have a question. You said that we all play a role. I'm quite aware that I'm playing. Have you no feelings at all of your role?

**Bashar:** I have your feelings about your own role.

Uh yes, I think. Do you feel they are accurate?

**Bashar:** Well, obviously they are accurate. But thank you. One moment. You could not have said that better if you had tried. Obviously. Your feelings about your own life are accurate since you have created everything within it. Realize once again that you always are creating for yourself reflections, guides, aids and assistance as you feel you need them. But those ideas are only created in a sense or initiated by outside consciousness as you truly feel you need them. However, again, quite paradoxically, each and every one of those assists, guide aids to you, though they may assist you, will always assist you in knowing that you are still obviously accurate in your feeling about your own path, about your own purpose. Allow me to say simply, it is not very complex. Whatever excites you, whatever areas of imagination excite you the most, make you feel most creative are for you exactly where you need to be. Only when you in a sense judge yourself against the idea of other realities do you ever slow yourself down from assuming that what excites you is a viable reality. Do you follow me? Then you might find simply that any purpose which in your terms lights you up and really I'll say that is quite literal lights you up. You will find that to obey your centering. You will find at that moment you are on your path. You will know at each and every moment as long as you allow yourself to know that happiness is not an ideal which needs to end. If you do not wish it to do so, your entire life can be one moment of eternal ecstasy. Do you follow me? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. And thank you.

**Question. I have a question.**
There was a guy in New York who I think his name was Son of Sam who was around killing people saying God told him to do it. I'd like to know who assisted him in his reality. Sam called him to do it. Santo that was a neighbor's dog. I know about that man from New York. Whatever. I'd like to know like you mean to say that somebody actually assisted him talk through him and helped him become

**Bashar:** Yes. A self-created consciousness separated from himself by himself so that he would not feel responsible. Do you follow me? Yeah. Right. Okay. It is very simple. It's done all the time. What I'm saying is what I'm really getting at is is there are people who have mental problems who hear voices, etc., etc. Sometimes the voices are depressing, sometimes they're exhilarating. The ones exhilarating from other planets and the ones depressing is what you're saying.

No, you are a creator. You are the creator. that implies everything that it sounds like it implies. You can create for yourself any form of reality and reflect it back to yourself if you wish as a seemingly outside reality, positive and negative. I understand that. But you just told this young lady here that there there are beings that would help her if she needed help.

**Bashar:** Yes, but the only help will simply be in allowing that being to recognize their own abilities.

Okay, so there are no beings out there.

**Bashar:** In a sense, there are in a sense there are not. Depends upon what level you wish to view it from. recognize that you do recognize separation of consciousness between as you say you and each other individual within here and now the room. However, from one level really if you wish to you can view this entire room as one identity is up to you where you wish to choose the viewpoint will reflect your idea about yourself and the reality you are creating for yourself as to which level you wish to view yourself from. Realize that all individuals, all consciousness within the multiverse are simply all the different ways that all that is it has of viewing itself. Do you follow me? Yes or no? Thank you.

**I got a question.**
Um, see, I see you as uh kind of giving information to people um uh establish more sense of self-confidence. But one of the things that you said is that people uh you know can make their own reality. And if that's true then then they don't necessarily need data from other people.

**Bashar:** Whatever data that you find to be true they could make that data not true if if they wanted to according to what you're saying. Absolutely. That's good. Always you have free will always you ought to be creator always. Thanks you very much. Is very very simple. Is it not? Sure is. Thank you. When you realize it is that simple. When you allow yourself to realize everything, it's that simple. Then you will be equal to every idea question.

You guys party animals up there.

Oh, man. You know, don't know if I want to be your friend or not, you know. All right.

only to a degree not in the same way.

I can understand that.

We all have our own way of enjoying life, right? Very good. All right. Thank you.

No question. Also for us, it is always a joy to interact with yourself.

You realize that when you allow yourselves as we have said to straighten out your exclamations from questions, you can always feel free to share statements as well. That is when you will be viewing yourself as equals. All right. I understand that you have answers to do you.

I understand that from a friend of mine.

[Music]

You go ahead. What?

**Bashar:** Allow me to say I have done nothing to make you afraid.

Ridiculous. There is no such thing.

Everything is valid. Everything.

Thank you. Um, you may make a statement if you wish. Well, all right. I'll make that later. Right. Um, how about uh what? You're fine. that to a great degree. You specifically will require what is termed to be flushing. You will make to pass through your system very pure quantities of what I will turn to bay juice of your fruit. You call cranberry. Mhm. Do you follow me? Yeah. You will find that you are simply forming for yourself blockages based on your own interpretation of your relationship to your physical universe. You can simply allow yourself to ease yourself from your disease. Follow that disease. Yeah. Simply allow yourself also to view that your physical form is a reflection, a direct interpretation of your soul form. Once again, not really is there a separation between the two ideas. Allow yourself to understand your physical form particularly with regard to that area. I'll say as you term it chakra. You may simply allow yourself to infuse also your entire physical form through that energy point with the idea of very very healing I'll say green energy following allow yourself to identify that hailing green energy with the same vibration as you say of your internal organs. Simply allow yourself to understand that your internal organs exist at that level of vibration and can assimilate and act at a I'll say meshing of gear between that energy and all other organs in your system. Each organ each energy point in your system will be found to identify with a different vibratory rate which you will associate with a different tone and a different color. You find simply that you may introduce the idea of pure flowing idea, pure flowing energy, pure flowing fluid throughout your system in general. Also allow yourself to ingest more of your water purified for now. I will say three to five of your glasses a day. You follow me? Also simply allow yourself anytime you desire to feel that you can relax within warm not warm water your entire body allowing that warmth to penetrate. Also you will find that to some degree you are missing what I will say to be a small degree of certain types of mineral salts within your system. You may little bit think tiny bit fluctuation between what you turn to be your potassium level up and down. allow yourself to fail more than simply by compulsion what you really wish to consume. Thank you.

**Question. I'd like to say something.**
First off, uh you know, I'm not a easy believer, but let me say that I had some liver problems and the guy sounds pretty cool. Now, one of the things I've noticed is that um um you seem very easy for communicating of information or about saying basically um have a vast body of knowledge or do you permeate a situation and have the bill based on your ability to permeate or how do you how do you come to such an easy way of of finding out answers?

**Bashar:** It is called in your language trust. Trust that you are a part of all that is and that all information exists within and is created by all that is. And that portion of your own viewpoint of yourself can very easily tune in to that idea of being able to know what you need to know.

Yeah. But I mean so in other words you permeate a situation and you can know you don't actually know beforehand.

**Bashar:** There are times in terms of your time as you time to exist when certain ideas are sent as you say beforehand. However realize our sense of time mentally differs from yours. We view your idea of the past and the future as simply ideas which are projected forward and backward from the present. All time in a sense is all right here and right now. Every idea overlaps simultaneously as you know time to exist. Did you follow me?

Uh I do. All right. Therefore, you will find that you can in very much the same way as you tune your I'll say radio system while at the same time you still know that all wavelengths are there to be tuned into. You can be selected. You follow me? I think you're coming clear. Thank you. You will find that once you simply allow yourself to tap into the idea that all those potentials exist already here and now, you can simply allow yourself to know that what you turn to be imagination is not in your term imaginary. Okay. So what what I'm getting is that um you as a beings from your civilization whether you personally or the or the beings who are equal to you from your civilization um have a very strong ability to know but it's not absolute. In other words from that position you are able to know more things with ease is never absolute.

**Bashar:** There always needs to be agreement between communicating individuals only to a degree realize that we cannot and are not and never will be mentally invasive. When an individual wishes truly believe that they wish to shield themselves from communication in a sense they can do so although the idea that they are doing so will be perceived why I may have some more answers

[Laughter]

later question I have a question 1962 about I was improvising in summer.

Yes, we had an idea.

Oh, all right. How would you say first how did it make you feel more connected to yourself or more fearful of yourself?

Well, it was and um I was pretty frightened for a while, but I I have I knew I knew that they knew something about me. I knew that they knew where I was. All right, allow me to say you were fine. For now, more information. If you allow yourself simply to ease into the idea of exploring any information you may lead yourself to with regard to being You will say stem from the area that you refer to as za reticulum. Can you follow me? No, I don't know. I'm not familiar. Become familiar. Become familiar. Okay. You will allow yourself by becoming familiar with all information regarding our say UFO in your terms contacts that you can find with that name. Riculum. Yes. Okay. You will begin to feel first of all the essence behind the idea of contact. You will begin to allow yourself to ease the fear within yourself of yourself and will allow yourself to explore the reasons which will blossom. You follow? I think so. Thank you. We will speak again of that idea.

By all means, my son's birthday is bought a car for him in Orion. I want to let you know that I did buy one and bought one in Orion. Do you wish us to begin paying him rent?

Nope. He's all right. He will be honored to have his nose.

Thank you. Very nice name for a star.

You also realize that in terms of what you turn to be, the mathematics of the situation is also very appealing to us. Do you follow me?

I hope so. I don't I don't mean by the national two.

What is your son's birthday? Did you say February 22nd two? You will find that the idea of sick will be the expression for us of the two triads linking. What you told by the idea in your literature of as you say heaven on earth the upper triangle linking with the lower triangle which is the expression symbol of your star of David heaven linking with earth between two triads your future self your present self merging Do you follow me? Yes, I do. And so you will find that there is no accident in I'll say establishing a signpost for your son which will lead him to the stars. You follow me? Yes, I do. Thank you very much for being so creative. In very many ways, you will find that there will be many stars with which he will be able to truly feel at home. Thank you.

**Question. I have a question.**
Oh, thanks. I like the formula you gave that girl for her liver.

In a way, first of all, you will find that in very many ways your science now understands methods of accomplishing this idea. However, you will find that in your terms would be in a way in your terms simpler between mercury as there is only one protonic difference between mercury and what you turn to be gold. Whereas iron is further away upon your scale of elements. Do you follow me? Yes.

Repeat. The vibration. The vibration. The vibration. The vibration of abundance of abundance is equal. That has to how your vibration of abundance is equal to your own. You do not have to worry about the how. You are an automatic creator. You need only the end selfimage of already being there which is the same as being equal to that idea. If you focus on only one method, you will close all the other doors through which it may have potentially emerged. Therefore, simply understand that the vibration of any idea using your own and it will be so. Please do act delight that as long as you consider an idea to be something in the cure it will stay in the future. Not in the present. Flying is not building. Working towards is always maintain the distance. You will one run. That's it. And you are already standing up on Thank you. We will die. A short.

Thank you.

All right. Lovely.

you as we have possessing the idea your mass culture reality of your planet has chosen to allow itself to recognize certain portions of its identity with regard to its overall sense of self and with respect to its own identity in relationship to our consciousness identity which you have termed other civilizations that more and more you will allow form and integrate them overall reality experience which will create then manifest physically to occur on a more natural basis I'll say the mystery of mystery is maintain usually contact object. No. The world from your planet scientific terminology to a degree you free oh for yourself you are creating that there are terminologies existing mentioning from you once again simply visualize eyes will be easier and picture a smooth field of energy that field of energy in a sense I'll say particles of energy which vibrate at a particular rate vibrating meaning moving back and forth in a particular direction. Yes. Okay. Simply allow yourself to imagine that a small pocket within that enormous energy stream begins to end. You may simply understand that that area vibrating at a different rate. I'll say if you wish a slower is what you allow yourself to perceive as a physical object because of the exact idea of physical. That's that's good. Thanks. You answered my question. You take the word health and health seeking would be anything. realize that the connection as you call it that is made between telepathic transmission both individuals operate at the same to but then the word understand exactly what you're trying however that again you need not be concerned with desire the final intent will take all the variation within the vibration necessary to impart that idea and also So do not forget that idea will become your physical reality.

**Question that question**
vibration that we're talking about um is this particular control frequency or or

**Bashar:** realize that there really is no space. There really is no time there really is nothing vibrating. is only a concept. It is the only way to explain the idea in physical terms. Do not make too much of it. Simply understand that it is only a few points of all that is realize that's not just the concept. One moment realize you are making separations once again between what you feel to be of in your terms quote unquote real and what is unreal. What is real to you is only accepted as real. decide that when you create the idea as you think of your oscilloscope, you are creating another symbol idea which has no more and no less physical reality than anything else which you use simply to reinforce your own belief about how something should be. Spray some energy in that direction that's going to help you on that particular area.

Why a vibration? Why use that concept? Why why not just say listen and uh smile at it you know right

**Bashar:** you may do that as well simply many many individuals in your here and now mass reality relate more clearly to the idea of vibration that is why that idea is being used to identify more often than not now realize that for many individuals if I were to simply say be held the abundance. They would say, "Well, how do I do that?" And so there is the invention of the idea of the stimulation of vibration to explain to them how to do that. In terms realize that in our society it is a matter of already understand how but when you say that it's you know it's not really real. Am I going to say it's popular to say that the basis of it is a concept, but if you have the appearance, all concepts are real. Not all concepts are manifested into physical reality, but they are nonetheless real. But a physical reality such as the vibration is real. All is real. real to you is being restricted to what you consider to be physical. Imagination as I said before is real, not imaginary. It's simply operating in a different level of reality.

That's what you said earlier that that vibration is is not concept.

**Bashar:** All right. You're complicating it again. You understand that when we speak of the idea only an idea which we refer to that idea that you are the creator and you are the source and at that point which really has no point everything to and is only in a sense a concept but at the same time is You allow me to remind you that we have said that in physical reality you will always find that these concepts, these paradoxical or seemingly paradoxical ideas will always exist at the same time where it will be in a sense real and at the same time not really real. Everything you wish to experience is real. And yet you can always understand that since you have created it, even what you turn to be physical objects, it is all only a matter of viewport at the same time.

I understand. May I ask you another question on this?

**Bashar:** Yes, by all means.

Okay. Uh let's talk about the spectrum of we're talking about a vibration. Now you said that you use a very accessible word but at the same time there can be perceived and measured because you have accepted the idea and only because you have accepted the idea. realize there are realities which have no way to measure those vibrations because they far and away from anything they may do to measure them. First vibration, you use it in creative sense. In other words, it's almost like an art form to you. You are not talking it talking about it in exact um United States um physical study.

**Bashar:** All right. If you wish, yes, that will make it clearer. Although there is always the reference to what you're going to be the technical aspect of vibration. Yes, for us it is simply more a matter of being and in that yes ours if you wish.

But I want to know the gimmick behind the vibration. What I mean by gimmick is is why is it that a vibration works?

**Bashar:** Because that is your reality.

question. How do you in I found a way I learned to address how do you on a you know on a very broad people all people here what tools how do you address that consciousness

**Bashar:** any tool psychology thank you first of all realize that a tool once again is simply the extension of the personality of that individual using those tools Our as you say tool is simply the recognition that the idea that there is separation between what you term to be outwardly physical consciousness, subconsciousness, unconsciousness, hyperconsciousness, mass consciousness and so on is only an idea. Separation between the forms of consciousness to us is only an idea. We can understand when it is imposed and at the same time view the overall idea of consciousness without the separation that I do follow that all right we have no need as he was saying in a sense for the same type of tool we simply know because to us it is part of experience

I yes that I understand what I'm looking at though is the actual reality that

**Bashar:** once Again, your term actual reality is all relative. Realize that even within your own society, there are many actual realities. Realize that one of these ideas which makes itself to you most obvious is what you term insanity. Those individuals are perceiving real realities different from your own. However, they also for the most part unless they have been able to incorporate that idea as well, for the most part also include the belief that they cannot communicate their experience back to this reality and so cut themselves off and so you perceive them to be unable to do so. Their reality is still as real as yours, right? I understand that what I'm looking at and I'm not looking at the viewpoint. I'm looking at it as something that

**Bashar:** All right, that is very simple. Simply allow yourself to know that the more you allow each and every portion of your own internal identity to be integrated, the more you allow each portion of your personality to be equal to every other portion and not shunted aside as one portion being less worthy than another or being unneeded or being without purpose. Then the quicker you will allow your own personal identity to become integrated and as such the quicker in a sense you will be allowing the overall mass identity to understand that it can then integrate within itself a complete integrated portion of its personality. It all starts and ends with you. Simply allow yourself to be the most completely aware of yourself that you can be and you will do everything you possibly can in a sense to add to the overall idea of mass consciousness

**question. Yes.**
Um this behav I don't know maybe you can tell me. Do you mean within this channeling here and now of your present time? Well, how you got to first of I don't know how far away it is the place that you came from. Approximately in your terms 500 of your light years. Uhhuh. So like uh did you was it just like a matter of a few seconds for you to be able to come have to do some long-term traveling or what?

**Bashar:** There is no traveling. No, you're fine. Once again, as you say, our spacecraft will incense. We understand the universe in your terms to be. Do you understand the term hologramic? No, I don't understand. All right. Understand that. That simply means that the potential for any object to exist exists equally at every point in the universe. The potential. Therefore to us since there is no space and there is no time not really. To us the idea of location is not as you view it that an object exists within a space. No to us the idea of location is that location what you call location is a property of the object itself. Therefore you have I'll say two identical objects identical in every way that you can measure them. They will still be different in one way. They occupy different locations. If you have location and object A, location and object B in your terms, if you are able in a sense to take object A, shield it from the idea of existing within physical reality for a moment and while it is in your terms in neutral existence, replace location A with location B. Then when you in a sense in your terms re-engage the object into normal existence, it will of necessity need to exist at location B since that is now its new property. And so it will appear to have disappeared from location A and simply instantaneously reappeared at location B. Though no real traveling was involved, it was in a sense simply taken into limbo, into neutral and reoriented. That is how we navigate simple reorientation of idea of placement within the overall multiverse and then reinstating the craft back into what you call normal space and even being there.

Okay. But you are to I understand that. Thank you. But yeah. And uh you're talking to the medium of of this guy wearing sweatshirt number 32. Now what I want what I want to know is um is uh um you know your relationship to him in other words is that you went through a space change and now you are free physically to be able to talk to him. Is that correct?

**Bashar:** I am simply in a sense telepathically in contact to greater or lesser degree as you understand that concept. I am still within my physical form at this time. I am nowhere near your physical planet.

Yeah, I guess that's what I wanted to know. The idea where is your physical form, your spaceship, all that stuff.

**Bashar:** It is near our planet at this time. Yes.

So, I wanted to know is like how you how you got here. Telepathy requires no identification with distance. Okay. Okay. So the first part of my question that you answered, you answered how you would travel here physically if you were to travel here physically. However, you didn't travel here physically. You traveled here on a spiritual or mental plane or however, you know, something like that. And that's how you're here right now. Is that correct?

**Bashar:** In a sense, however, realize that as you say with regard to the idea of mental or spiritual contact, it is even easier to avoid the idea of distance. There is no such thing as distance in non-physical reality. Anything is right where you are.

I know my mother-in-law is in my space all

**Bashar:** realize that in a very real way. That is true. Yeah. No, I'm with you. All right. We'll get you there.

Oh, you're with me. One of the two. Thank you.

**Question.**
Like a handle for bad eyesight. mine in particular. Right?

**Bashar:** Realize tinly that this idea and any idea like any idea can stem from many many reasons. However, you will find once again that you have accepted certain ideas of what you turn to be strain within your physical organs of sight. Simply this will be in a sense a tension situation. The muscular cure is under tension holding your eye out of shape. Do you follow me? There are techniques of visualization if you wish with which you may allow yourself to simply apply soothing energies to those musculatures and allow them to ease their tension. Also, you may simply begin to assume to a degree that you can sense in another way whatever you wish to sense. Now, many individuals choose in those terms poor eyesight so as in a sense to develop their other senses. Do you follow me? It allows them not to be completely clearly focused here and now physically and serves for them a purpose to a degree. This is your situation. Thank you.

**Question.**
What is green energy? Is there a color to it?

**Bashar:** Once again, you will find that any vibration of energy will have an associated color. Do you realize that color is simply vibration? Yes or no? No. All right. Understand? What you turn to be electromagnetic in your terms energy, what you call your spectrum of color is simply the same energy vibrating at different rates of existence. What you turn to be red is in those terms a slower vibration than what you turn to be orange which is slower than yellow which is slower than green which is slower than blue which is slower than violet and so on. Simply the idea you associate with what you say to be the vibration of green is one which has for your race in general a direct affinity to health and peace of mind. Hence the existence of so much of it upon your world for balance and as you say identification with nature. Thank you.

**question I've got.**
I'd like to know um what do you do with like what do you do other than this like on your planet? What do you

**Bashar:** You'll find that in your terms I am what you call a pilot and engineer.

Oh, do you do other things like do you listen to music or do you dance?

**Bashar:** To a degree yes. We will find also that this in very many ways right here and now is also in your terms my job. Oh, also we are in contact with three individuals on three planets with which we perform this particular job. Why not? for much of the same reasons that you have chosen to allow us to be here with you to form and act as reflections as mirrors for those individuals who wish to begin to understand and identify with those portions of themselves. Thank you.

**Question. I had a question.**
All right. Same question. Okay. Um I have created a condition I forgot how to create. Um somehow I created a condition where I magnetize some kind of dense matter to my head and this occurs in around certain beams and in certain places. I don't know how to change reverse the magnetic pole or something but that doesn't happen. You have any thoughts about that?

**Bashar:** What do you feel about those beings?

Uh, a lot of time I don't even see them. Um, I if I try to tune in what form it it feels like a kind of gooey black dead substance. All right. for you. That there are portions of yourself can without your acknowledgement, without your agreement, sneak up upon you, cause you discomfort within yourself, attack you in a sense without you having created that condition. Do you feel you have corners in those words of your mind you cannot reach which are forever in a sense or at least I'll say presently inaccessible to you out of which can come ideas that you are not familiar with

uh do I believe that? Yes.

Why? I believe there's somehow that I'm creating this and I'm just not in town.

**Bashar:** All right. One moment. One moment. That is not what I said. You say that when you have opened yourself up to allow yourself to experience certain energies, but you channel those energies through a belief system which allows for portions of your own internal consciousness that can be hidden. You will cloud your atmosphere, thicken your perceptions as a shield form round and bow you. Do follow me. In other words, your guides in a sense simply are attempting to tell you that you need not harbor a belief in those dark recesses. You can never be attacked from unsuspecting corners of your consciousness unless you yourself box those corners in and turn out the light. Therefore, we need no protection. Thank you. The concept of needing protection implies that you believe you will be attacked and it is your belief that forms your reality. Do you follow me? That is why similarly feel that something can happen is the same as believing it will. And why the synthetic emotion you call hope is created because what you really believe in is despair. Thank you.

**Question.**
uh uh do you for the medium that you're speaking through um are you using his ability or or breadth of knowledge in terms of the English language or have you do you have your own uh knowledge of the English language that you use only to some degree more often than not will be similar since we use as you say channels in many of your cultures and many different cultures on different worlds to use their own knowledge simply they are in a sense allowing ing themselves to translate concepts which have no language at all.

You're saying the medium is trans is allowed is allowing us to use them as a translation device.

**Bashar:** Did you have a discussion with him? in our place both before and during this life. First of all, each individual I'll say makes the choice themselves. It is by agreement. Also, many individuals such as the channel present here and now are in your terms I say direct descendants of our culture. Realize that we can in no way, shape or form according to our beliefs interfere within your society. There is only in a sense one way we can affect your society directly. That is by allowing ourselves to be bored within a society physically. But even then our assistance is always passive.

Does that also mean that we can choose to be born within your society?

**Bashar:** Yes. Is a lot of that that goes on. I mean, it's very free. Yes. Yes. Yes. Many individuals have what I will turn to be counterpart lives in other societies at this time. Going concurrently. Yes. And past and future.

**question.**
I I have a question. I'm a little puzzled over a statement you made that almost four years ago when the nuclear explosions or explosions on Earth could have possibly been except the mass consciousness decided against it. And if they didn't decide against it, nope, that is not what we said. Okay. Well, anyway. Okay. Go ahead. What did you say? wishes that as of four of your years ago, your mass consciousness had made a decision to not annihilate itself through nuclear war. Right now, if it did decide to annihilate itself, you said that you would step in which contradicts. That is the only exception. And how now what I don't understand about that is since you create your own reality, right? Yes. Everybody creates their own reality. Then you would have had to create the reality of us harming you in a nuclear explosion. So while it seems contradictory, you would have to step in if you just didn't create that reality for yourself. You could just ignore us whatever we did. Yes. But we have chosen to be counterpart civilizations with you. And so we have chosen in a sense to be affected. Yes. And how would you accept that?

**Bashar:** Your devices will not function.

[Laughter]

I can understand that except for the fact that if you had free will and you decided as a mass consciousness that our devices would function, how could you possibly uncreate what we create?

**Bashar:** There's not an uncreation is in accordance with your own overall self soul identity as well. Yes. In other words, to put it very simply, your higher consciousness knows better and our higher consciousness agrees. Thank you.

Thank you. However, you might realize that there have been those destructions both in a sense to a degree on your world before, within your solar system before, and in many other solar systems. It is simply not at this time the chosen reality of this system.

Let me ask a question. I want to ask you uh on your planet and the mass collectivity what are you trying to also are there uh are are there guidances like uh you provide

**Bashar:** you will find that though we will have a differing viewpoint of our relationship to the idea of those guides that there will be for us within the counterpart triad of your planet our planet and the planet orbiting Sirius for us that planet will be in a sense to a degree the same viewpoint of advancement over us that we are over you and they will provide for us a view of ourselves when we will be able to merge with our whole soul identities as they are doing now. We are in a sense in the process of exploring our integration within our mental identity as one consciousness. As you are now beginning to understand yourselves physically as one consciousness upon the surface of your planet in approximately I will say 300 of your years you will to a degree be viewing yourselves in the same way we view ourselves now and you will have relationships with other planets in the same way we have relationship with you now. Thank you.

**question.**
I had a question about a planet going around Sirius. Yes. Um, can you tell us anything about that?

**Bashar:** You will find that they at this time explore as you say space totally telepathically. No ships. They will in a sense be able to in your terms call upon the entire racial identity if they wish at any time they wish. They will in a sense pass their consciousness through what you term to be the idea of a black hole in order to achieve location and physicalization in a sense at any point in the universe. You'll find that they have interacted with your civilization before and because fair society is in a sense more I'll say fluid in nature in terms of its expression in energy and its manipulation over their physical form. They have been perceived in your terms as amphibious. They are not literally so but it is close. You will find that you are also the second society upon your world with which they have been in contact. What you turn to be the dolphin having been the first and for some time. You talking about it is on a world which orbits the star you know as Sirius. You will find that their planet will be slightly larger. their atmosphere more dense than yours.

But I mean, I don't understand the relevance of that that this why she brought this particular planet up. What does it have to us over here? Cuz I I don't

**Bashar:** It is the third part of the triad between your planet, our planet, and their planet.

I mean, are these bad dudes? Are they all right? I mean, you know, they are quite beneficial and form in itself a

Okay. But they're part of something good that's happening. Yeah. This what I just wanted to know. I didn't I didn't have any. Thanks. Thank you.

How about Society of Jupiter?

**Bashar:** What society?

Well, I talked to a guy a couple years ago whose name was Corton. And um

**Bashar:** realize first of all that in your terms physically your solar system harbors no other life as you know it. You will find that ideas related to the planet you are familiar with when they are true contacts will represent contacts through other dimensionalities. Realize that your solar system in a sense has counterpart solar systems in other dimensionalities upon which certain planets there have life but not here. You will find however that to a great degree. Simply what you will be contacting in that case will be your own projected consciousness as you understand it in terms of the symbol of that planetary identity as it relates to your own growth. You will in a sense be speaking to portions of your future identity. Do you follow me?

All right. Realize that right now your future self exists and can in a way recognize that it can communicate with its past self which is you. Okay. Your identification with that energy symbolized as you say astrologically in terms of the power of your planet of Jupiter. This simply an identification with which you recognize the consciousness not that it physically stems from that local. Do you follow me? Yeah, I do follow that. You may view it in a sense more like an association or organization which represents a particular viewpoint which you will identify with the symbol of your planet Jupiter. Okay, thank you.

**Question for sure. Yes.**
Is there any validity to the book and the documentary known as alternative three?

**Bashar:** I will say there will be at this time between 40 to 60% validity. There are many many ideas which were left out many others which were substituted as per the understanding of the individuals responsible. I will say that to a degree for the most part this I'll say alteration was not as you know it to be malicious simply limitations within viewpoint do you follow me not quite in other words there will be 40 to 60% of that information which will be in your terms accurately relevant to your reality The reasons for the remaining percentage in your terms not being accurate will have to do with self-limitation by the individuals responsible for bringing forth the information. Do you follow me? Mhm.

And have they actually put some people on Mars?

**Bashar:** Not really. You will find that the idea which is more truly expressed is that there is in a sense ongoing contact between civilization and what you turn to be the governments of your world. There are desires and plans most of which have not been acted out. Do you follow me? Yes. Thank you.

I get the impression that you see us even though the physical eyes are closed. Is that true?

**Bashar:** I sense you.

Well, sensed meaning uh talking about vibrations to any sense belief or disbelief.

**Bashar:** Yes and no. You will find that everything is a belief. What you told me disbelief is simply another belief and in its own reality is quite applicable

[Music]

**question.**
Um I was considered to I considered myself to be physically unable to bear a child. So I asked the assistance of a superior being to do so and thus had my daughter who was with me. I went and to another session where a friend of ours who had left his body on earth and was elsewhere was speaking through a medium through a Ouija board. And I asked him about her history in an attempt to find out how I could be a better mother given that I was given this help from a superior being and wanted to be worthy of that by assisting her in a way perhaps I might not have known about. He said that it was impossible for this to occur. that all beings here have been here for numerous years and are progressing through lifetimes and that it was unfair to inflict that viewpoint I had upon him.

**Bashar:** All right. that while that individual was in a sense being I'll say a little bit harsh, there is truth to that idea first of all by the recognition that you consider that it would take another being with what you consider to be more power to allow you to exist in any way, shape or form. First of all, recognize that that was simply in a sense the way in which your belief system would allow you to recognize your own power to create the situation you wanted by deferring to the idea of a superior being. You will find that if you continue simply to worry that you are not already by simply continuing as you did when you requested assistance that you are less than worthy to be a part of the initial creation. That is what that individual was referring to. Simply allow yourself to know that your timing and the timing of the child is exact. You both know exactly what you are doing and you are exactly the perfect person that child wishes to associate with at this time for the reasons that child has chosen to be. All right. Wonderful. All right. Thank you.

**Question.**
What um do you like uh let's say in your own in your own uh regular environment on your planet? I guess that would be a regular environment. Is that a correct assumption? Right. Okay. What do what do you like to be called? Do they call you by your first name?

**Bashar:** There is no names.

Huh? You told us you had a name of It is a convenience for you. Oh, well, what do they call you?

**Bashar:** There are no names. We What do they just say hello there? Any sense? realize that we recognize each other again by our signature vibration. Ah, in other words, we know what we feel like and the differences between us and we recognize that feeling and know exactly who we are in touch with whether they are physically present or not.

If you have a physical body like what you will find on an average physically as we have said we will be about five of your feet in height. We will as we said in a sense seem to appear to be combination of what you term American Indian and Asian but only remotely. Our skin as you say coloration would be generally overall even white whitish gray as you know it.

And do you touch?

**Bashar:** Yes, very often.

How about how about uh do you need to touch something to move it like we do? Do we have to pick up things and move it?

**Bashar:** For the most part, yes.

Could you move it without touching it if you wanted at this time in our civilization?

**Bashar:** Only within certain circumstances. However, I will say that is one of the realizations which within our civilization is becoming a more daily occurrence.

Is it hard to learn?

**Bashar:** Nope. You already know everything you need to know. In your times, it is only a matter of simply becoming aware. There's no technique to it. We allow it to occur spontaneously and learn by observing why within that particular circumstance, an aggregate of consciousness found the need to be.

And your bodies, are they like neat bodies like ours? Like we have blood and bones.

**Bashar:** Yes.

How many people are there on your planet or bodies?

**Bashar:** You will find in a sense the surface as you say of our world to consist of approximately I will say 54 million individuals. Most of the individuals of our civilization exist in what you turn to be mother ships. However, the surface of our planet is spread out, not densely packed as in your cities, and therefore we will in a sense cover most of the surface available to us, though not in an overpop populated sense.

Then wouldn't we? approximately at any given time one/ird to three times the same amount within the mother ships on various other planets and in various other types of ships that will be specifically our civilization as you know it.

Why do you live in ships instead of just you know buildings on the ground?

**Bashar:** have more mobility that way. Simply realize that there are buildings in a sense as you say, though very simple in nature. Simply that most of our innocent work is done in what you turn to be space.

I got it. Thank you.

Is there is there any violence on your planet?

**Bashar:** No.

Are there different uh forms of higher consciousness or some individuals?

**Bashar:** Each individual within our society is viewed as being completely potentially equal and will always exhibit to their own chosen talents what they wish to. It will always be viewed as exactly the same type of consciousness. Even though the service being provided will differ from being to being

you know on this planet uh you know for instance some people like to watch a couple of slobs wrestle on television you know what I mean now in your your plan how do you get away from the sterility of just kind of like knowing and vibrating and all that you know what I mean

**Bashar:** by understanding that we do not have a belief that just simply knowing is sterile. We are always finding new creations to explore.

I mean like uh helping other planets and stuff like that. Many many many endeavors.

**Bashar:** Realize that only upon your planet right here are you holding the idea and yes on some other planet as well. But you're holding the idea that what you turn to be perfection of being is a static state and boring. is not.

So, so what do you do when you're have static state? What do you do? Name something.

**Bashar:** Realize we are not static. We are always creating when you allow yourself to know yourself as a continual creator. You will always have the momentum of creation. There will always be something surprising and new.

All right, that's cool. Yes. Uh well I wanted to ask you was uh can you uh I know you can probably predict the future right?

**Bashar:** Yes and no there is no future.

I mean for someone in the room if they want to ask yes and no.

**Bashar:** Why you say no? Because it is up to you to determine what is in a sense relevant to your idea of a future. Realize that any as you say prediction that is made is a prediction based on simply sensing those ideas which have the most energy behind them at the time the prediction is made. You always have free will to change your mind. Your futures are not always set as you say. So you make your own future always.

Mhm. Do your children go to school in a sense?

**Bashar:** However, there is no again separation of that as you say idea from the overall experience of the society. They are not cut off. We recognize that the best as you say teacher is experience and involvement with all aspects of a society. Therefore they learn mostly by actually doing.

**Question.**
May I make a comment always? Well, the impression that I have is that you know um in your civilization I guess uh culturally uh the group uh or you know there's maybe a mass consciousness over there like you say you know that we have on this planet and their way of enjoying things are its own its own development its own its own way of enjoying things and I think that that we maybe in our own future if as you say as we created or decided doesn't it doesn't necessarily have to be that way for it to be a progressive and growing state. In other words, uh somebody 300 years from now could have all kinds of of spiritual uh and uh uh you know abilities and and uh uh powers and and there could be a tremendous change in the civilization and then the guy can still like watching two slobs wrestle on television.

**Bashar:** Yes.

Okay. Well, I just want to be sure.

**Bashar:** Do not worry. You can always be exactly the identity you wish to be. The idea of integrating into the mass consciousness exactly oppositely reinforces the idea of your own chosen identity and vice versa. In other words, the more you allow your own identity to really be, then the easier it will be for the entire identity to form. You do not lose identity when you merge with overall mass identity. Quite the opposite. The stronger each of you are within your own sense of self, the more integrated you become within yourselves and the more integrated your overall mass identity will be allowed to be.

**question.**
If we become I'm sorry, Daniel, I got to get this one done. If if we evolve to the point where we feel that we are as equal as you are and um but we have totally different likes, okay, how is your civilization going to respond to us? You know, suppose I mean realize we have totally different likes right now. How are we responding to you right now?

**Bashar:** All right. Because we already consider you to be equal.

Well, I thought you didn't consider us to be equal.

**Bashar:** We consider you to be equal, but you do not consider yourselves to be equal.

Okay. Well, I'm glad that we're having this discussion. I'll tell you next few weeks, I'm going to have a lot of qu This is getting really interesting. I really like this. So, I appreciate you being here. I think you're all right. You're a right dude, you know.

**Bashar:** You are all right. as well. As a matter of fact, we think you are quite perfect.

I thought that way about myself.

Well, don't worry. I got a contract down.

I'm joking about the contract.

Yeah. Go ahead. I want to ask on your planet, you beings, do you create an advised by the concept of right and wrong like we do here.

**Bashar:** Once again, when you allow yourself to understand that you are as powerful as you need to be already and can create anything you wish to without the need to violate any other consciousness in the process. There will be no more wrong because you will never feel the need to be weak enough to need to convince someone else of what you yourself are attempting to convince yourself of. Thank you.

**Yes.**
Oh, thank you. Um, my friend Susie brought me here and she said that you have friends who come through this channel also.

**Bashar:** Yes.

What are their names?

**Bashar:** You will fight once again. It is not as you know it will be remained. However, there will be in your turn my counterpart from the same civilization female. You will be able to refer to her asma. You will find that one of the beings will be as you say from that civilization round and about what you know to be the star Sirius. You will refer in a sense if you wish to this being as hip-hop. Thank you.

Would it be would Anna consider it you to ask her to come or does she choose to come?

**Bashar:** She would love it for you to ask her. However, at this time she is busy. Thank you. Thank you. You will if you wish be able to converse with her in a future time if you wish. Thank you. Realize that she considers none of you who wish to share love rude in any way. Thank you.

**Question.**
What uh being an artist, maybe you can give me some kind of idea of what our colors are, what colors are on your planet.

**Bashar:** Why would we not have all the colors you do?

Well, I don't know. I'm just assuming. All right. What colors are they?

**Bashar:** What colors do you have?

Red, green, yellow, blue, purple. If I do, okay, you will find there will be I'll say with the creation of devices which utilize pure light, there will be variations within Hue. There will be manifestations of energies which in a sense really have no color yet are still perceivable. You will find there to be in a sense as you say psychic colors or psychic interpretation of colors which will carry very different feeling from what you turn to be everyday physical colors. They will all still derive from the same idea is only how you allow yourself to experience them. Okay. Thank you.

When you uh when you're not going through the medium, uh do you have to make reports to some higher authority in your civilization?

**Bashar:** First of all, realize there is in a sense an organizational system. Yes. However, they're not in terms to be like your government. So there are in a sense reports per se but once again not really through any hierarchy as you call it. Just simply the logging of information of knowledge which any being can be made aware of any time they so desire. Much of that information is channeled through that overall organizational body so that they may continue to function smoothly and efficiently with regard to the massive amount of communication which is I'll say enacted between all of the civilizations with which we are in contact.

Do you find that you need to be rebriefed or and somehow uh receive further indoctrination from your civilization and uh in relationship to how you uh communicate with us? I mean is there a review policy? I I'm very curious about

**Bashar:** there will be at times since we do not know everything the need in a sense to check with the I'll say mass consciousness in terms of direction of flow to make sure we do not in a sense misdirect or in a sense harm so that we will all worries Please be completely responsible for that information which you allow us to share with you. This will be necessary at times will be a very very brief process. However, simply again the identification with the overall consciousness and the sensing of the direction of flow and then the continuation of the process. Thank you.

Do you do you uh find it uh stressful or in somehow uh an encumbrance for you to come here or is it kind of really easy for you and and you just kind of go back home and have a a cup of coffee or something when you're done here?

**Bashar:** is very very simple. Realize there is on our end similar in a sense trans state. Also board what you call our mother craft. There are in your terms chambers or cubicles which through the use of as you call it computers amplify the telepathic transmission to the point where it is very easy to send.

Oh, so you're still there. Yes. Oh, okay. I got it now. Thank you. All right. Do you have do your people there listen to to the transmission the way that we do to learn about us?

**Bashar:** Some Yes.

**I have a question.**
Uh as beings, did we originate on this planet? Maybe a simple question or a complicated one.

**Bashar:** You mentioned that we we sometimes I'll say to a great degree in terms of one idea. No.

I didn't quite could you elaborate on that? No. You will find that there are formations in a sense of what you call beingness physically which did occur upon this world. Portion of your overall consciousness however did not in your terms originate with this world. No. You will find that there were physical representations of what you now consider to be your overall mass consciousness which originated from the area you know as LRA

**question.**
You said that you use computers to help your your um telepathy appear. So a good this kind of brings up uh my curiosity again in an earlier question which I brought up regarding the fact of how you permeate situations or whatever but in actual fact do you get answers for us through this computer system.

**Bashar:** First of all, you will find that when your society creates the idea of, as you say, intelligent machines, they will simply in a sense be allowing themselves to have created a tool with which they may communicate. I'll say in a more acceptable fashion with their own higher consciousness.

Could you say it one more time, please? All right. In the creation of what you turn to be intelligent machines, you will simply have created another tool, a symbol which you will find to be an easier way to accept the idea because it is removed from yourself physically that you are in communication with your own higher self.

Yeah. But on the other hand, you can look at it as uh as um you've developed something which is a fantastic uh tool for achieving retrieval of knowledge and so you can look at it as an extension of your own abilities as you said it becomes a concept turned to reality and looking at as your own creation versus uh you like in this society here computers are most part are perceived by general public as superior intelligence.

**Bashar:** Nice. So but but in your civilization you don't perceive it that way. No. Okay. But the other hand now the question I had was do you use those computers a lot of times to get the answers that we ask

**Bashar:** you mostly you will see that they are simply used to facilitate certain situations rather than used in a sense for the idea of information retrieval. Although there will be that aspect to a degree. Yes. You will find that they are selfaware. The computers are self-aware. Yes. So, but you're tapped into that computer when you're communicating. That is also how we operate our ships. So, so in other words, you you're your communication to us is is is a composite of perhaps a number of things. I mean, we're asking it's kind of like fun because we're asking you and and you're giving us the answers and the more we know, the more you're able to answer. But you're you're kind of like uh letting us have the curiosity to find out what's going on.

Tell you here here man. They They find that there are variations of the idea of I'll say passing one's consciousness through the idea of connection to the computer. You will find that we are in direct link with that computer. When We are operating our spacecraft as the computer performs the navigational functions of perceiving all the possible realities the ship can go to but is activated by direct link with our own consciousness. Thank you. It is one way. Realize as I said that are many civilizations would have no need of physical ships and accomplish the same idea.

**Question.**
Was there a particular event or occurrence either with this particular group of people or on earth itself which had your people decide that it was okay for you to come here?

**Bashar:** There have been a series of self I'll say awakening moments which you have chosen to create for yourselves which when combined together form the here and now present reality that you have chosen to experience which involves our interaction with you. No one specific event. No. Although I will say there is a great deal of momentum behind an idea that you do not wish to repeat a cycle in your civilization that you had created many thousands of your years ago. And so you are more open to the idea of pulling yourselves to another level this time. H you will find that in those terms up to this point what you turn to be your United States of America is almost a direct historical parallel to what you turn to be Atlantis. You are at the same brink of determination for yourselves which way you wish to go.

**question talking about Atlantis.**
Where was Atlantis?

**Bashar:** Take a guess.

Any Atlantic? Thank you. you will find it occupied latitude relative to I'll say the northern portion of what you now turn to be England down to the uppermost portion of what you turn to be South America tilting from in your terms of looking I'll say at a back of your world from the upper right to the lower left slightly. You will find it will at also one time have been directly connected to all continents through what will be turned land bridges when the levels of your oceans were lower. Thanks.

**Question.**
Yeah. I have a question. Do you know of a planet that is like made out of glass or faximile?

**Bashar:** Very good. You will find that there will be two variations upon this idea. First of all, what you're going to be both worlds, I'll say one light and in your terms one dark will be both crystalline in nature but varying in construction. You will find that as you say the world of glass or crystal as we view it will be in a sense a creation which will allow for the physical manifestation immediately of any idea shape or form or concept. Do you follow me? Not really. All right. Imagine yourself within the structure of that as you say world. Mhm. Any idea that you have will be instantly made into physical reality. Do you follow me? The other idea, the opposite in a sense polar idea expressed by another crystallin form will be that of a dark moon which will contain within it I'll say a collective organization of very very specifically technically oriented beings of various civilizations though they will belong in their own estim relation to one association and have interaction with your world and many other worlds.

**Question**
what was the origination of the vegetation on our planet? How did it get here?

**Bashar:** You will find that to a degree your own science is accurate in its estimation of the formation of chemical and elemental deposits on your world which allow for the formation of natural vegetation growth to occur. There will be a few of the vegetation on your world which will have been in a sense created by the inhabitants of your world after a time and will still continue as in a sense offshoots of that initial creation. For the most part, what you turn to be vegetation upon your world is quite natural to most worlds though in varying degrees and types. Yes. What I was wondering is um it was your civilization ever at a state that like what ours is like now

**Bashar:** only to a degree realize that without certain of the influences you have created for yourselves we allowed ourselves to I'll say interpret those tensions and stresses in various ways one of the more direct drives which our civilization expressed in those terms even in The age which was similar to yours was that of reaching the stars and so we did. Whereas at this time most of the same energy upon your world has been directed towards what you turn to beak warfare.

Uh regarding that may I say a statement? Yes. Well, see, I had a theory that um that there what's actually happening between the United States and Russia, let's say, u is not so much that they're trying to protect themselves from each other, but there's kind of a a uh mass consciousness between those two powers to develop very very very uh high techch uh weapons as they're now getting into space. and that um that there's some unspoken purpose behind it other than their own self-defense. Perhaps uh there's uh a an internal fear that that is not even conceptualized yet that that protection might be needed sometime from now uh from uh people visiting us from someplace else. So maybe there's some possibilities there. But I mean it's just an idea that came to my mind but I kind of thought it was curious because it doesn't seem to be any real war between the US and Russia. It's just like a game. What's your feedback on that?

**Bashar:** I will say you have ascertained I'll say 87% correct. You will find that they are to a great degree in concordance or they would have the majority of your world believes they are not. You will find that it will involve as you say not so much the idea of the need true need for protection but yes a fear. I will tell you now this fear will not manifest. You will find that there will be more a belief simply in the gaining of power between the two actually between the three. You will find you will include your idea of what you term China in the game. You will know also that they are very well aware as I have said that each of your respective governments that you have mentioned and many many other as you say governments are and have been in contact with other civilizations for quite some time.

By what mean? Basically.

Oh and it's been suppressed. Yes. So this is why they're working so hard at building weapons then to a great degree and trying to build high techch weapons.

**Bashar:** You will find that much of what you know to be I'll say your weapons testing will in a sense be a cover for what is really being created. Okay. You will find they have been in a sense I'll say trying for quite some time to duplicate our technology with regard to space travel.

How are they doing? How are they doing? I say so. So why don't they want us to know? Would any sense allow them to lose their sense of power? realize that those ideas of government were created initially out of the population's fear for taking responsibility for themselves. Therefore, when you create such an organization from fear, it must create fear to maintain its own existence. When you take back your fear, take responsibility for your fear. You will no longer need them to run your lives. And so they will lose in their eyes their sense of power. And so they must maintain those levels of fear in order to allow you to feel that you need them all the more while at the same time they will go right on creating what they really wish to create.

But is then isn't there some good in in what they're creating though?

**Bashar:** Yes. You will find that when they allow themselves to understand that you are beginning to take back your fear, they will have much in the way of sharing with you all of the ideas they have been working on will revolutionize your idea of yourselves in the twinkling of an eye.

Could you say that the the fear that they have created has also um in some form we in this room who have a great concern and love for mankind. What I'm trying to say is the same amount of energy they've used to create fear we've used to create concern which you in turn have realized from where you were. You are now beginning to take responsibility for your fear.

**Bashar:** Yes, it is the same idea. You are turning the idea of fear into responsibility which is being turned into choice which is being turned in positive directions of selfiming.

So would you say that you were able to come here because yes there was enough of our concern that you could feel it there.

**Bashar:** Not concern selfreization. Mhm.

**Question. One moment.**
Do not be sorry. Oh, no need to be sorry. No need. Yes. Um, do you know an age you will find that I will bury approximately I will say 155 of your years. And since you also have like bodies like ours similar, I understand how did you manage to live so long?

**Bashar:** You will find that when you allow yourselves, as you are beginning to now, to understand that your purposes and your creativity can span such an amount of time, your body will accommodate you.

Now, now that you're 150 years old, um 155 155, what were you before?

**Bashar:** 155. That's what I another lifetime. That's what I meant. Not before. Which lifetime? Well, I'm saying the one before that. realize that within our civilization in your terms for quite some time, okay, our beings attain in your terms approximately an average of 300.

Do your beings have an equivalent to the masculine and feminine?

**Bashar:** Yes.

Are you masculine in the other?

**Bashar:** Yes.

Animal is what you want to be female on your planet. How uh do you maintain your body? What procedure?

**Bashar:** There is no procedure necessary. We to a degree will consume as you say edible substance but will be not as often will be more simple a form. Also we have created for ourselves at this time what you would view as a organic synthetic which supplies most everything we need though it will not be in terms of your synthetic forms will be truly organic a creation of our mental mindset.

So you have no obesity.

**Bashar:** No.

What about sleep? What about it? Well, do you do it from time to time?

**Bashar:** very lightly, you will find that there will always be the need for physical beings in a sense to connect into their non-physical reality, which is truly the purpose of sleep. You will find that in that state, you always bring yourself back to your zero point of being. When you allow yourselves to understand that your dream reality can be your waking reality as well, you will flow very easily back and forth between the idea of being awake and being asleep until they merge into one idea. You will live your dream. You will always be awake and asleep in a sense at the same time.

**Question.**
Do you have a feeling of uh camaraderie and and and and also I mean in relation to your people home and your people here do you feel the emotion of friendship and interest and and let's say we're having a good discussion here and do you like the way things are going? Do you find a lot of pleasure in it and do you feel you're making friends?

**Bashar:** Very much. Thank you. Thank you.

**I'd like to ask you a question.**
All right. about crystal that we're talking about. There is some holistic healers that are using crystal as a liner of healings. How reliable it is and how would you get about to do it?

**Bashar:** First of all, it will be as reliable as the individual believes it will be. You were fine. start becoming more crystalline. The physical shell of the seed are more crystallin. You your physical bodies are becoming more crystalline. Okay? So that you can more directly make use of that particular vibratory energy. Okay? You will find therefore that many more of your beings will attune themselves to the idea of channeling energy through the use of more crystalline tools. Likewise, like crystal or any other tool which is as crystal crystals, right? Yes. As a tool for the focusing of that energy which you now feel yourselves to be more in tune with. That's right. In other words, you will find that many of the tools you now have will be replaced in some way, shape, or form by more crystallin forms.

Okay.

**Question.**
Yes, I have a question. What you've been talking about crystals, you say it's a very I get the idea. You say it's a very good tool. Is it the best or what is the best tool?

**Bashar:** The best tool will be that which you will allow yourself to align most closely with your own belief system.

I understand that. But you you made a distinction between crystals and the other forms of tools on right. This will simply be a reflection at this time of your overall mass consciousness as we sense it in terms of its identification with certain types of energy which are best facilitated through crystallin forms. Okay. Is there a better way that the mass identity can identify with itself? Is there a better tool is what I'm getting? Yes.

**Bashar:** None. Got it. Okay. Thank you.

**Question.**
What is the origin of the bodies of this planet? He you mentioned vegetation earlier. I'm wondering what the origin of these bodies are.

**Bashar:** Allow me to say we will discuss that in and of itself as a completely different subject another time. Okay? As it will involve many various ideas with which you will have to first acquaint yourself. This will be in your near future. We will help acquaint you with those ideas. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.

**Question.**
Are you saying that your people have been able to assume physical bodies on this planet?

**Bashar:** We have from time to time very rarely simply come here in our own physical bodies.

Oh, in your own. You wouldn't assume one on this. There is no need to. No, we have our own physical forms.

So we we without knowing it, you've been here among us without us knowing to a degree. There are right now many beings from other civilizations who are very human in form who are among you physically. We know who they are. You will not unless they want you to. Do are you familiar with them or do you know them?

**Bashar:** We are aware generally. We are aware specifically of some.

Do you know one named Scotland Elmore?

**Bashar:** There will be no discussion of this at this time. Realize that if their identities in a sense were made known right now, it would inhibit the idea for which they are here. You will find that you may simply react as you feel like reacting. There will be purpose within your own sense of selfawwakening.

Did any one of you guys ever get nailed to a cross?

**Bashar:** No, thank you.

[Laughter] We will explore the concept of what you turn to be your Christ consciousness some other time as well.

Thank you. Can you help me understand the concept of time and what it isn't? I guess.

**Bashar:** All right. Now do not I say allow yourself to become too complex about the idea since you have chosen to exist within physical reality. You have chosen to experience time and so you will not be able to extricate yourself completely from that idea. It serves you in a way as it is. However, simply understand that in your terms, time is a perception. And in terms of the idea of overlaying the concept of time onto the vibration idea we spoke of earlier, you may simply allow yourself to understand that time is in your terms discontinuous. That is, it exists from moment to moment to moment to moment. There are gaps in between each moment. These moments vibrate in your terms at such a high rate of speed that you perceive them to be one continuous flow of motion. But one moment is not connected to the next. And therefore anything is possible in the very next moment. If you can recreate the entire universe in the very next moment, your entire universe, it will be different and is different from the last moment and the moment before and the moment before and so on and so on infinitely.

But can you also change previous moments then?

**Bashar:** That way your past is created from your present just as your future is. Only because you have created a sense of cause and effect do you hold on to the past more solidly than you view the future. It is only a perception. Your past changes frequently. Yes. Realize that in very many ways, one idea that you express as an instantaneous, as you say, occurrence or miracle can be viewed as simply allowing the beginning of that idea to have occurred in your past with sufficient amount of time backwards for it to be in the present. Do you follow me? No, I think I lost you. All right. In other words, if you assume that a certain incident or occurrence must take, I'll say, 3 days to occur, you may have it created today by simply allowing yourself to project the beginning of that occurrence three days in the past. Oh. Oh, okay. Thank you. Thank you.

**Question.**
Uh, yes. In regards to your um use of various um aids in in u being able to communicate with us, do you sometimes allow your medium to answer questions if he knows the answer or basically he's just kind of like um standing by and letting you kind of like uh you know give answers.

**Bashar:** For the most part in your columns you will find that the medium will simply stand by. There will be on occasion times where the medium will also understand the answer. However, the purpose of the channeling will be such that the medium as you say has learned that in order for there to be the best service rendered possible, he or she will keep his or her opinions out of it.

But doesn't he sometimes disagree? Don't you find it sometimes a conflict you have to resolve with him?

**Bashar:** There are no conflicts as long as the channel simply allows that for the I'll say time of contact. There simply will be what will be. You will find that in your terms many as you say channels will have I'll say radically different lifestyles other than the information which issues through them. Uhhuh. So basically this this being is is perhaps quite aware and able to be able to allow a another being to come through his existence and act through his own creations. He must be a a fairly well-developed being or is that not necessarily true?

**Bashar:** You may simply say this way, those channels are simply ones who have been willing to allow themselves to view the most of their awareness that they can and so come face to face with the idea of the equality of all the portions within their own identity, allowing themselves to simply know, trust, and take it for granted. in your turns that whatever occurs will be the best possible result for all concerned.

Well, then they are highly compelling.

**Bashar:** However, I will say in those terms you may say yes. However, we will tend to, I'll say in your terms, shy away from that view as you will then tend to do the same thing that you have done with other beings in your past and separate yourselves from them and form in your term deification and also form in your term your less esteem.

No, but it's okay to to to have a knowledge of who you're dealing with. I mean, you're dealing with some schlepher that's a butcher versus some guy who's who's acting as a medium for a being from another planet. You got to have a little respect. There's nothing wrong with that.

**Bashar:** All right. Each being may respect. Yes. All we are saying is respect but not at the cost of your own selfrespect.

Sure. That's that's reasonable. Thank you.

**Question.**
Are the government uh in their efforts to duplicate your former weapons and travel? Are they going to

**Bashar:** We have no weapons. Um, okay. Spaceships then. Thank you. Uh, are they going to have to duplicate the mindset that you have to operate and do even

**Bashar:** That is the biggest block for them. And that is why at this time we are aiding certain individuals in understanding how our craft operates since they will discover that if they really wish to make them work they will have to understand and make themselves work first.

Individuals on this planet that's great. Not bad. That's good. So that your idea of your own spirituality will grow simultaneously with your idea of the technological idea.

But the spirituality will be in advance.

**Bashar:** They will be simultaneous.

It seems ironic that I would think people that tend to be against defense spending tend to be the same people that want to grow spiritually.

**Bashar:** They at this time for the most part do not know that is what they want. But they will find that if they really desire to understand our method of space travel, they will have to come to understand that that is what they really want and will ease off the fear.

**Question your shar your definition of affinity please.**

**Bashar:** simply association and attraction. In other words, a recognition of that portion within yourself that you seem to feel comes from outside of you. In other words, as we have said, your phrase takes one to know one very appropo. Affinity simply the allowance of recognizing that you cannot in a sense identify with a concept if you do not already possess that quality. Do you follow me very much? Thank you. And so you will know that if you feel you are lacking in something positive, if you can imagine what it is you are lacking, then you have in a sense already acquired that ability. You simply have to allow yourself to know that if you can ask the question, the answer must already be there. If you can recognize in as you say someone else a quality, you also must possess to a degree that quality. When you take simply the weight off of the idea of negative and positive, then you can simply create the reality you desire. That's not just a definition that applies to affinity. That's a general definition in relation to to to uh a lot of things. Thank you. Okay. You will find that many concepts are interconnected. Our society chooses not to separate them.

**Question.**
Can I ask a very banal, very trite question? Will it be bal and trite to you or to us?

**Bashar:** To us. I I I assumed it would be bal and trite to the to the uh people here. But I'm just curious. Why can't we smoke while this is going on?

**Bashar:** realize that you can if you wish will not bother me will not bother to a degree the channel

so I can smoke even though the sign says I can't

**Bashar:** bother me don't bother me

[Laughter]

very well I tell you what we can we can let this subject ride till next

Right. I would like to ask um it's up to me.

**Bashar:** Holds his hands in that position. You will find that we in a sense direct the flow of energy through the channel in such a way that that will form a spontaneous balancing of the energy with regard to the physical structure of the medium. In other words, you may view it as forming a connection which allows for the ease of flowing of the energy round and about the medium's physical form.

Would it be possible for the medium to eat or drink while he is channeling?

**Bashar:** There are channels who do so to a degree. Yes. However, you will find that it will be for the most part unnecessary as during what you're told to be the channeling, the medium will be sustained in every way, shape, and form that he or she needs to be. Thus, you will find that as you say, the channel will free you upon the ending of the channeling more energized, more centered, more balanced. And to a degree, if they are willing, should they begin the channeling with a feeling of imbalance or disease, they can, if they wish, be balanced and eased at the end of the channel.

**Question.**
Yeah. Robert Monroe, uh, there's a being that speaks through one of his channels called Mirina. Do you know her? Do you know her? Is she?

**Bashar:** We will say for that will include a slightly different reality, a slightly different contact coming in from a slightly different direction than what many individuals right now are used to. There are many contacts of that nature at this time. They will grow over the next I'll say five to seven of your years as you know time to exist until you understand the integration of that particular type of contact along with every other particular type of interaction taking place. We will discuss that later as well. Okay. Thank you.

Can you say a little bit more about um you said something about taking the weight off the positivity and negativity?

**Bashar:** Simply that you can by analogy understand that when an individual puts very very very much weight upon the idea of being completely preoccupied with health, they will create just as much reinforcement for the idea of disease. And so remove the importance from both sides. You will always be at the center of your being. In other words, you may care very greatly about the overall idea of creation. But at the same time, you may also say, "So what? I have done this very very negative or very positive thing. All right. So what? I am a creator. I am continually creating. I will now understand that if I remove the weight from both sides, I may simply be what I really wish to be and not create myself to be a victim of my sins.

One of the other past times on this planet is that people are always judging things, judging good, judging bad.

**Bashar:** May I remind you that that is also a judgment. That's sharp. Again, another relationship. The act and the reaction are the same act. Allow yourself simply to understand that that is not necessary. Be what you wish to be. That will be your best way to in a sense add to the overall identity and allow for all other individuals if they wish to to see within you that the idea of not judging the self is easier for them if they wish to and so you need not worry about them judge them in their way of doing things.

Thank you. Thank you.

**Um, may I ask a question?**
Do I need to say yes? No. Um, okay, that's pretty fair, too. Um, it what will determine the speed of growth of us?

**Bashar:** Once again, the degree to which you are willing to view more of yourself. And uh, the more you view, the faster then you'll grow then. Yes. But I I'm sure though there is another a facet to that. Do you know of another facet to that?

**Bashar:** There are as many in a sense facets or limitations as you wish to put upon that idea as you want. So you're saying that the basic and it and it it affects all other facets is a person's own willingness to grow. Yes. Thank you. Thank you.

Is it relevant to our spiritual growth that we're also growing taller physically?

**Bashar:** Yes, you will find once again there is no separation between the idea of your physical form and your spiritual form to a degree. Always your physical form will be an exact symbol of the idea of your own self-image spiritually. Once again by analogy simply recognize that your physical form is the shadow of your soul. You have a shadow for your physical form. And if you wish that shadow to change shape, you do not pull it or stretch it. You change your physical form and it very obediently changes its shape. Yes or no? And so if you change your soul image of yourself, your physical form, which is its shadow, will very obediently follow right along. This will also be regarded in terms of correcting diseases. self-image of rest point of being at rest of being peace will allow your physical form to follow the idea and manifest that reality in your balance rest point. We will in a sense have a few more of your minutes.

**question.**
Do you have jokes on your planet like how many earthlings does it take to spoon a light bulb or something?

**Bashar:** Our laughter, as you say, simply stems from situations within life as we are able to recognize within ourselves, our own limitations. However, you will find that we will in a sense never make fun of someone else.

But you find humor in things. Yes. Could you give me a couple of examples? I'm very curious.

No, I mean, no, really. Just just you know what? How how in other words, humor here is is kind of laughing at the silliness or stupidiness, stupidness of of certain situations uh or or you know, all right.

**Bashar:** You will find that ours will be in a sense more along that line. Simply also however the laughter will contain the next seed of willingness to be creative and so in a sense create a situation which would carry through that limitation and that's humorous too. Yes. Well, is that humorous because of the of the joy of the the the the the feeling of of excitement of success of abundance of creativity of success as you say. Yes. of knowing the self is the joy of knowing the self. But again, humor is kind of like a a I can't quite explain it. Do you understand our concept of humor to a degree? Okay, I'm going to hold off right now. I want to think some questions I want to ask about that because I'm very curious about that area, but I'll ask right. Thank you.

**All right.**
Um during the 60s there was kind of a sudden growth in mass consciousness. What was the cause of that?

**Bashar:** You there was no external catalyst or anything. There is no such thing. There is no outside. All that is is all that is. Realize that once again. You have simply reached your own signposts. You have left vibratory signatures for yourself when you decided to come this way again. And so allow yourself this time to react to that trail you left yourselves. Do you follow me? Mhm. You formed your own awakening in that sense. We will say once again that all ways the degree to which you are willing to be willing to be will determine the momentum of your reality and the fullness of your life. Allow yourselves to realize you need no reasons. first to be joyful that the joy itself will bring you all the reasons you will need.


