---
heading: Part 2 of Buffer Zone"
title: "Jupiter"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1985-07-03
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 34
tags: ['anger', 'scientology']
---


**Asker:**  I feel like I'm fighting with my friends on religion and free will. And I know I'm fighting with myself. 

**Bashar:** But you are utilizing the reflections that you both agree to utilize for each other. You are allowing yourself to explore all those different realms of judgment; that was the purpose for the agreement. Therefore, you're not fighting the agreement; you are going along with it. 

Why am I so angry? 


**Asker:** Because you are judging the judgments. 

**Bashar:** Within separation and within judging, you will create cycles of repetition. When you allow yourself to continue to simply recognize all the different purposes, you will wean yourself of that cycle. 

You will not feel a need to be angry except as clear positive anger that only lasts a few seconds of your time that simply gives you clear insight as to the path you have chosen.

Positive anger is simply a clearing. When you judge that you have created anger again, then you do not let it be natural clear anger. Have your anger, but have the real anger, not the artificial anger.

**Asker:** I keep thinking about the life that I discussed, and feeling that for some reason that has a lot to do with it. 

**Bashar:** Yes, it is connected in a way, but understand again you are reinforcing that idea from your present because that is what you are exploring right now. 

**Asker:** That's why I feel so connected. 

**Bashar:** When you are in between lives, do you take all the judgments and all the emotions with you? You recognize that you made judgments; you do not take them with you per se. 

But in that particular state, do you then make judgments from that position? Not judgments — observations. So they're not judgments. So you really only do that within physical life. 

Yes, because it implies separation. 

**Bashar:** There is no separation in non-physical life except as you create what you know you are creating, so it is not a real separation.

After I had that life, in between states I looked back at it and thought, "You know, you idiot for doing that," but I'm only doing it from this position... 


**Bashar:** Then you created in the present that past life to afford you the opportunity to have something to draw on when you decided in this physical present life to determine the idea of the exploration of judgment.

So you would have something to connect to. Why do you have to have something to connect to? Because you are in physical reality and you create a time track; this is what will make sense to the physical ego. 

But if I'm in this life creating opportunities to work through the idea of judgment or experience the idea of judgment, why do I need to create other lives in order to connect to? Why is not this life enough? You do not have to. But you have. 

It is simply your way. You're actually enjoying that life very much. It has a sense of power within judgments to you. It represents the idea that you were fascinated with the power that could be within the fear and judgment, and created that life so as to experience it firsthand.

**Asker:** Can you elaborate on what was done to me on Sunday, how they did it, and who did it?

**Bashar:** Do you require a verification? or do you know that your momentum is still carrying forward? 

Carrying forward, but a little confirmation is always nice.

Why? Many times a little confirmation does not confirm but in a sense slows the process down. Do you wish the process to slow down? 

No. 

Do you understand the presence of the sister in that way? 

Yes. 

Will that be enough? 

Plenty. Only one more thing. It was done as a symbol physically with the aid of what you term to be a resonating chamber. How far was that chamber from me? 


**Bashar:** In another dimension entirely, but right round and about you. 

It was the setup of certain resonating cavities within your physical form at the same time. It was the idea being expressed that your body is a resonating cavity. 

It was also the idea given to you as a tool, if you wish it, that you can recognize yourself as that resonating cavity and begin to realize your attunement ability.

It's conceivable that I could have been there on my own. Understand that when the time comes for the interaction, it will be required to tune yourself to the frequency necessary for the perception of the interaction.

I was having so much fun doing all the walking and exploring and having all these ecstatic explosions as you say, and it was fantastic. And because I'm not doing anything, I feel like I'm not. 

Well, if I am, I'm not aware of it because I feel tired all the time. I feel like I should go out and start doing all these things again, but I keep putting it off into the future. I'm not doing it right now. I feel like I'm walking in heaviness. What would you like to do? What would I like to do? I think I would like to walk back in my... 

No, I don't want to do that. What would you like to do right now? Right now. Go ahead. Be crazy. What would you like to do? I'm done. Okay. 

Do it. Are you doing it to some degree? Much more than I was. I expand my space a lot. A lot of it is like I should be signing my papers to take on my retirement. 

**Bashar:** Why?  What are you retiring from? What are you retiring to? 

I'm retiring to much more exciting things. Does that require the signing of papers? Yes, I'm leaving one job to go to something else, to much more exciting things. 

**Bashar:** What is stopping you from signing the papers? 

Why don't I? You tell me. 

**Bashar:** Are you afraid that the idea of being able to create anything you wish will be less stable? I have thought of that possibility, and all I feel is that's not the greatest thing that can happen to me. So go ahead and do it. There is no need to fear that it will ever stop unless you choose to create that it has stopped, as you have done now as a symbol to yourself to show yourself that you can stop at any time you wish. I feel that the creativity on this job has more or less... as we say, I'm overrun on this job. I just don't want the job anymore. All right, so get out of it. You did not always have this job, did you? No. And I've never stopped this lifetime either. 


So that's what I know, and I know that it's going to lead to much, much greater things. I feel kind of like my being unwilling to go on has stopped me from doing a lot of creating, but it is only to show yourself that you are fully in control of when you start and when you stop. That is the only purpose for the feeling. Stop right now. Allow the symbol to serve its purpose, and you will begin to move again. I just had a cognition that perhaps this is what's causing me to feel so tired — because I don't go ahead and go through. Holding back all the momentum you have begun to create for yourself will be tiring.

About I think it was Monday night, I woke up in the night and I was terrified. I don't know of what — maybe it was just fear itself, the experiencing of fear. I think I may have had some kind of dream or something that triggered it, and I don't know what it was, but I lay in bed for a while and didn't go back to sleep for a little while, just in terror, and I just hung out with it. Thank you. You were connecting into counterpart energy. You were connecting into the energy as expressed by the idea of being challenged to be who you are. You were experiencing along similar lines of a triad of which you are a part — the idea of allowing yourself the opportunity to truly stand up for what you believe. 

Within this triad, there were other beliefs; you were experiencing at the same time as other individuals within the triad the idea of allowing yourself to now know that you are consciously going to be making the choices, and that once you make them, you now have the integrity to stand by them. I had this feeling that there was symbolically not a struggle — because I knew all along that whatever I believed in would stand — but there felt like there was some kind of challenge. And I was really being strong in what I felt. Yes. What triad is this? Who is that on the earth plane? The physical channel and your sister.

**Asker:** I'd like to explore this concept of positive and negative. Since your civilization and now our civilization is in the process of choosing the positive side, there is an apparency that the positive side is better than the negative side because everybody's choosing it, and I'm wondering do you perceive something of that nature, or is it truly that this just happens to be your choice?

It is simply the idea that you are recognizing that within the positive choice there is integration and the opportunity to view more of yourself. Thus the feeling of expansion, which leads to the judgment you call "better." So within a context it is better, but in the overall sense it's just another choice which involves expansion.

**Asker:**  A concept that I have acquired from Scientology was that if you look at a picture of something horrible that could happen to you, for instance a plane crash or something, you get this idea, "Oh my god, I might crash on this plane or I might be hit by a car," and if you deal with it, you may create it in reality. 

I've concluded that you can play with it in your imagination just as much as you want to and it will not... 


Know that whatever you choose is exactly what you have chosen for the purpose of this physical life. Therefore, always perfect no matter what it is. Whether you entertain thoughts of crashing in a plane accident or not will not affect the decision that you have sort of already made. Not really. If it does not stem from the creation of a true belief... 

Actually, that true belief comes from fear. If you integrate fear with that picture, then you are kind of edging on the belief that it's going to happen, and it might in a sense. But understand again it will always be within the flow of what you have chosen to experience in this physical life. Many times, as a signpost, the more different things you choose to feel fear about, the less likely any one of them will manifest. All you are showing yourself is that you are fascinated with the fear itself.

On your planet or in your civilization, do people in general are very conversant with the idea that they are not their physical form but separate from it? Understand that we view ourselves more as the integration of the idea of physicality and non-physicality, not so much the separation. We do project ourselves within the idea of separation that you call physicality, but we recognize that physicality is only another viewpoint of consciousness. Therefore, at the same time, there is no separation.

When you're in your spacecraft, do you simulate gravity or do you live in a zero-g environment? There is a gravitational field that is simulated.

How do you construct a self-aware computer? 

The basic foundation — the metaphysical principle is in constructing is a symbolic representation of your ability to communicate with your own higher consciousness. 

Mostly it will:
- be crystalline lattice work construction
- represent itself in terms of light being the activation principle. 

Put two metallic plastic crystalline construction film sheets in between 3 metal plates forming a sandwich.

This allows conductivity of the exchange of valence between the electronic clouds surrounding the nucleus of each atom within, to exchange through this membrane filtering between the metal plates. 

This will interact and form the synaptic gap within the brain, which will then include all the probabilities that your own mechanical brain then allows itself to perceive as it chooses. 

This material will mostly be magnesium and also chromium. 

These would be the metals. In the plastic material, there will be some idea of polycarbonate, but there will also be the idea of chromium. 

You are just on the verge of discovering how you can have metal-plastic or plastic-metal. 


Q: What is the frame rate of time? What would happen if we synchronized the strobing of a light with the frame rate of time.

Light is synchronized with the strobing of time because the idea you call light is the representation of the barrier of the universe you call your own. 

There can static doorways through which you can merge into different dimensionalities and parallelities.

The Pleiadians' purpose for having continuous commerce with Earth at this time is much the same as we have described in general before.

There's a book published that contains photographs of a saucer-like vehicle that presumably there were many contacts made with people in Switzerland. 

it was described as the latest Pleiadian spec technology enabling them to travel from there to here in seven minutes. Do you have similar technology? Yes. 

So that in 9 or 7 years when people from your planet choose to come here, it will not be a long trip. For us, there is approximately 17 and 12 minutes in preparation of the craft and removal of our craft from our system and the gravitational tensor field anomalies within. Then there is the shift into what you would understand to be a hyperjump, and then the reemergence near your system, and then approximately 13 to 15 minutes emerging into your system. The jump itself takes no time whatsoever. Any time transmitted to you in terms of the duration of a trip involves the time spent in preparation, not in the actual jump. How do you navigate so that you will come out correctly? The computer understands that when it unlocks itself from one reality, what is presented round about it are all probable realities. It is simply a matter of picking the vibration of the one you wish to go to. Is it as simple as saying, "Gee, I'd like to be near Earth"? Basically that simple in a sense, though we do not say "gee." 

But it's accomplished electromechanically by the machinery. In other words, there is actual machinery that performs this function. As you would recognize it, yes, you would call it a machine, you would call it a spacecraft. It isn't merely a group of people thinking nice thoughts and then they arrive. Oh yes, it is consciousness. We recognize any physical symbol to be an extension of consciousness, but we also recognize that we have chosen to exemplify our symbology in terms of the machine at this time for the purpose that we share between your civilization and our civilization, and for many ideas we also exemplify within our civilization as we relate to other civilizations. It will be a convenient form of reference. Thus it will be manifested as a machine.

Asker: Could our body survive on your planet? 

Yes. There's similar air. 

Asker: How about where the Pleiadians come from? Yes. 

Asker: How about Sirius? Not really. 

Asker: What's different? They exist in a very dense energy field to you. It would seem almost like liquid energy, a very intense dense gravitational pull. 

You could be acclimated, but you would not exist in anywhere near the same vibrational pattern of that physical reality. 

You would be in a stepped-up vibration and you would be somewhat non-physical, balancing between energy and matter. 

Asker: What density are they in? 

They are also third, but on another level of third. They represent the higher consciousness of the triad vibration which is represented by their civilization, our civilization, and your civilization. 

So we're all moving toward the 4th. And the 4th is characterized by the integration of these different levels of consciousness and the interaction between them. There are other densities beyond the fourth — fifth, sixth, and seventh. 

Then there is a completely different octave that represents another magnitude of reality altogether, and there are an infinite number of these.

Asker: Are you in touch with civilizations that are in the next octave?

Bashar: Only in one sense we are aware of some of them. We are in touch only in a very limited way with those of which we are aware, but not really as you would understand it. Mostly it will be within 4th density, and mostly again within 3rd; we are aware of some fifth, some sixth.

Asker: There is an entity channeling through a physical channel here in Los Angeles who calls herself Leah and describes herself as participating in the sixth density.  Are you in contact with her in a sense? 

Yes. 

Asker: There were also several books published about an entity channeling that called itself Ra, sixth density. 

In that density, there is an association of consciousness that does not recognize so much the idea of separation within itself. It almost recognizes itself as the actual dimension which it occupies.

Asker: Could you tell me about some of the energy that I'm feeling right now? I've been feeling Russian energy for a while now in my life. Sometimes it feels like a rush, and then it feels like a whole spinning thing, like if I've had a few drinks or something — it feels great, I love it, it's just kind of floating around. Tonight I've been feeling a lot of energy rushes, and just like a few minutes ago I felt a very faint pain in the chest area — not a pain that hurt, it was just like a pain, and then another rush of energy right after that. 

It is simply one more phase of the integration of yourself with all your parts. It is a part of this entire idea which is now manifesting and will continue to do so throughout what you term will be your 9th, 10th, and 11th months.

Asker: So then are my body and other people's bodies also getting accustomed to feeling more energy, sticking our psychic toes in the water? 

Yes.

Asker: Speaking of the Pleiadians, the sister energy in our relative vicinity right now. And the negative infiltration I feel — is that real, or am I letting that out of proportion? 

It is in a sense real, but it is totally under your control.

Asker: How do you use anger on your planet? What situations would you use it in, and how do you use it? 

For the most part, there is no need for us to experience that tool of anger at this time. Anger in its natural state is the realigning of your clearness of vision of your own path. 

Do you understand the idea of righteousness? Do you understand how it can have a positive manifestation in simply hearing something you know does not vibrate according to how you know yourself to be, and simply then standing within your own self-aware knowing, righteousness in a positive sense, and by allowing myself to see that reflection, I can then through my swelling of knowledge within myself stand firm within the integrity of my own awareness. 

That invokes the same energy that you use for anger, and you can simply express it as the idea — not again in a negative way — of discrimination between a vibration which is you and a vibration which is not. What you term to be natural anger will approximately last 10 to 15 seconds; then what comes is action. It is the judgment which allows the anger to continue on into guilt, frustration, rage, and hatred, creating a host of artificial emotions.

Asker: I've been reading about astrology lately, about Mercury retrogrades, which we're in right now. It affects certain things like appliances, electronic gadgets, cars, and mechanical things like that. They advise that you should never buy them during Mercury retrograde.

This is a symbol again, but it does reflect the idea of the overall patterns within your mass consciousness that you have agreed to share. Mercury will be symbolic of the dark side of technology. Therefore, as you begin to allow yourself to relate to that vibration, you will then experience the idea of technology gone awry. 

Why when it's going in retrograde but not when it's going direct?

Retrograde means going backwards? It represents the dark side of technology when it goes backwards. It is only a symbol. It does not have to have this effect. But there is within the mass conscious vibration an idea, a vibrational pattern, that does reflect this particular idea. Thus if you identify with it and go with that flow, then any idea at that time that you manifest within that vibration will exhibit very obediently that idea of the retrograde technological effect. 

Asker: NASA keeps launching the space shuttle during the last two Mercury retrogrades. They've had trouble with it even though they didn't believe in it. 

Bashar: They did not consciously acknowledge it, but they are a part of the mass conscious belief system. That idea will also have served a purpose to allow them to know that  they can also take that factor into account. Those missions still accomplished much of what they sought to accomplish, no matter during what phase.

I saw Jupiter and its four moons through a telescope the other night — the four largest, not the closest — and I also saw the red bands. I understand that they are different gases astronomically speaking.

But when you see the moon or Venus, you see all the potholes and it feels like no life at all coming from there.

You do not see potholes on Venus; it is cloud-enshrouded completely. You see the cloud layers above. Mars is the one that we have the meteorites from.

So from outside of Earth, people cannot see our mountains and things? 

They just see the atmosphere? 

No, there are many times when there are breaks in your atmosphere. Your own individuals who have traveled into space have taken photographs of your planet from space; you can see the mountains. 

We're sending a mission to Jupiter in the next few years, and we've never been close enough to get past the heat of the atmosphere. Is there something on the other side of the atmosphere? 

Is there life that we're going to be able to acknowledge at that time? There will be at this time discovered certain principles with regard to the idea you understand as life, but they will be mostly what you understand to be chemical components. Is there life on Mars at this time? Not at this time. But there was a civilization. 

The picture of the sphinx that I've seen on Mars — is that existent on the planet? 

Not exactly as you have pictured it, but yes, it will represent to some degree natural formation, but also it will represent another type of density perception which we will go into another time.
