---
title: "Without Struggle"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1985-04-17
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 37
---



You have chosen certain ideas to manifest within your mass conscious reality at this time.

You have created together on mass many different ideas, realities, situations, interactions, relationships in that way which will form a part of the manifestation of your transformation from what you would call old to new age awareness, third density vibration to fourth density vibrational beingness.

In the doing, the creating of this transformation for yourselves at this time, there is no need now that you have given yourselves the momentum, the opportunity, the effect and the perspective of this transformation that you have created within yourself. The idea that each and every idea is valid, that you are granting the idea of validity and beingness to every path and therefore performing the idea of service to all that is. 

You may then understand simply that you no longer need to try. You no longer need to struggle. You may simply be all about the idea of living, being what you know yourself to be, experiencing yourself and every path, every reflection which you perceive in physical reality and other consciousness to be valid and incorporated, integrated within the overall understanding of yourself as a consciousness.

You may also begin to understand again that the blending and the integration at this time will involve the idea that you are one consciousness. The ideas you have created which served you as tools in a sense within your past will be the separation of your consciousness into conscious, unconscious, subconscious, hyperconscious, and so forth. Understand you are one consciousness. 

You project to some degree again within the idea of maintaining a physical existence the idea of some degree of separation of consciousness so that you may remain focused into the physical reality that you have chosen to experience for your own purpose within this life unfoldment, but understand also that the connected consciousness will give you the effect of complete, smooth, ecstatic, joyful, coincidental unfoldment without struggle, without trying. You follow me? Understand that is the effect you will have within your physical life when you allow yourself to know that you are connected.

When you understand the idea that what you call subconsciousness has been simply a very convenient tool, now you may understand that everything that you do is conscious. You follow me? Simply again the creation of the idea of the subconsciousness or any other portion that you deem to separate from the mass consciousness which is you will simply have been, is, and always will be a tool for you to serve your own purpose, but simply a tool, not a reality over which you have no control, not a situation that you did not create, not a reflection of your own victimhood except in that you chose to view yourself that way, out of control or controlled by something seemingly outside yourself.

Once again, you are all one consciousness. There is no outside. 

Therefore, understand simply that you lie. Now begin to note that any question that you have will be after the answer which is already within you; you will not perceive that there is even a question until you have the answer and choose to separate the idea of the answer from yourself and thereby form a question. Understandably then you may look backwards into the reflection, into the mirror, to see that the answer is there, and what you perceive to be the question which you think must come before the answer only seems to be before the answer because you are looking into a reflection in which everything is always backwards. You follow me?

Therefore, understand if you see the answer first. If you say that the cause seemingly must come before the effect, then understand you are simply looking into the mirror, the reflection of the reality that you have created for yourself. And understand that as in any mirror, what seems to be in front of you is actually behind you. You follow me? What seems to be behind you is actually in front of you. In other words, you are already the effect. You have already the answer. Simply when you project the idea out in front of your reality that there is a question or that there must be a cause, when you look at the reflection after you have projected that question, after you have projected that idea of cause before the effect, you will see the cause projected out in front of you. But you will seem to be standing behind the cause. In other words, you will perceive that in order to get to the reflection of yourself, you must go through the cause first. But understand, it is only a reflection. That reflection in which the cause seems to be in a direct line between the surface of the mirror and yourself in the mirror will only be the illusion of the projection. The real reality always stems from the source, from you. You are already there first before anything that is extended from you, before any projection, before any idea.

Therefore again understand that the idea simply may be living. You may allow yourself at any time then to understand that as you form the question, you may also allow yourself to ask the question if you wish, but also understand you may make a statement of it. And in making a statement of your question you may then understand very simply how you have the answer. Do you follow me? But I will say question have a statement.

All right. I had an experience yesterday. Daryl and people here who don't know it or haven't been around when Daryl channels an essence, they call it an essence rather than personality. Nehemiah. The reason why it's called an essence is because it's really an idea rather than a personality, but an idea that can take on a consciousness of itself. And so that consciousness has a name called Nehemiah, which is the spirit of health, represents the spirit of health. I've felt like I've been in communication with Nehemiah over the last few months. Then yesterday I had an experience. Nehemiah to me feels masculine, and yesterday I had an experience of the feminine side of the same idea with a slightly different slant to it. The name that I got was Pani, and it was female, and she was interwoven with Nehemiah like a wife kind of idea. To me, Nehemiah represented the idea of life, and Pani was the nourishment that brought mobility into the idea of life. Also, I felt like they were forming a triad with me. Pani and Nehemiah are my initials; my name is Pamela Newri, and my middle name is Gail, which symbolically represents the wind or life force that brings that nourishment of Pani and makes alive that idea of life with Nehemiah. Also, Pani represented tonality, setting the tone for life, setting life in motion. I looked up the word gale, and it represents not only a wind type force but also a shrub in a swampy area that gives off a beautiful fragrance. I was having fun with that, very creative.

Now allow me to say then thank you very much for your sharing, for your experiencing, for your exploring of all the facets of yourself. Understand also that much of this information, much of this formation, is from what we have spoken to you about the exploration of much of your own archetypal energy. Understand that what you are doing is a recreation, a reenactment or an enactment of the alchemical methodology which was used in your terminology by many of your ancients in forming their own archetypal mythology, understanding of their relationship to what you may call earth spirits. You follow me? I was thinking about the Greek myths when they had the different gods of fire and gods of this and that. Very good. And now I'm realizing that those are real essences, ideas of consciousness. Yes. Understand also that because of your choice of physicality, the idea of the G will represent to you the idea expressed in the feminine form as Gaea, which is again another name for your own planet Earth. Wow. Thank you very much.

Thank you very much. Questions? Sure. I had a particularly terrifying dream last night in which I found myself at an effect viewpoint, and I'm not quite sure exactly what caused that to happen, although I do have some awareness that possibly the resistances to some of those old concepts generated that scenario. All right. But again understand that many times when you experience what you call a nightmare, it will be your willingness to have worked out certain ideas in your dream reality rather than experience them within your physical reality and remove the block from in front of yourself so you may get on about your life. When you say working them out, you mean you actually experience them and it's no longer necessary to experience them in the physical part? Very good. But you also once said that when you allow yourself to understand in that way, it is not something to be resisted or shunted aside. You also at one point said that the dream state was a prelude to something materializing on the physical plane. Just a different understanding: every idea you experience within the physical plane has been experienced to some degree within the dream reality first. That does not mean every dream reality experience manifests into physicality. Okay. I still don't quite understand what was the triggering source of this scenario. I didn't consciously go, "Well, I need to confront these particular ideas."

Now understand once again that you have many ideas within your consciousness of separation: subconscious, unconscious. You have been willing to allow yourself a little bit of the reality that you have been attempting to seek within your conscious mind but have not been willing to experience physically. Therefore, understand you did make the conscious choice to allow your subconscious to allow you to work it through in your dream reality. I see. You follow me? Yes, I do. How do you feel about the idea of the dream? Well, now I feel totally comfortable and fine about it. I didn't like being at the degree of effect I appeared to be in that particular dream. When I came into this physical plane, there was no problem with it whatsoever. I simply looked at it. Again, understand, do not judge it and separate it from yourself. Follow me? To a degree. Simply understand that it was an opportunity for you to view ideas you have given yourself to experience, and you were experiencing them within your dream reality rather than needing to manifest them physically. I got that part. Good. Oh, thank you.

Now understand simply again that every idea just as in physical life, in your dream reality is you. Everything within the dream, every person, every object, every interaction, every word, every emotion, every feeling, every thought, every color, every movement, every act is you. Therefore, it will be very easy to understand what you have been working out by simply having conversation with each and every one of those portions of your dream, recognizing it to be yourself, and understanding that they each have something to tell you. You will have within your imagination the reality then as the bridge between your conscious outer aware ego consciousness in physical dimensionality and the dream reality. Your imagination is the bridge, it is the translator. Follow me? I do. Then understand that you may replay the dream reality within your imagination and allow yourself to have conversation with all the different portions of yourself within the dream. Talk to them, say what do you have to tell me. Allow yourself simply to listen very playfully. Play the game with yourself, and you will have a very enjoyable experience of what you before thought of as a very negative experience. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you.

Question. In this dream reality, can the dream be influenced by others while the dream is taking place? There is always, as in every level of your life, agreement to share, not influence without your choice. Always you have free will. Always you may choose to feel that you are being controlled, but it is a choice and you may change it when you wish. I see, so I could have someone in a dream, some kind of action taking place, that I agreed that this took place but I was actually being influenced by another person within? That is not what was said. You are not actually being influenced, you are actually agreeing to play at being influenced. So we back it up to agreeing. Yes.

Understand again that within your dream reality, particularly, everything, every being, every interaction, every action is you. You follow me? No, just very simple. I mean I do and I don't. All right. Everything within your dream is a projection of yourself. Not someone else. Do you follow me? Yeah, I can grasp that statement. And understand that even in physical life that is so. Understand that you are your own universe. Therefore, any interaction that you perceive to be taking place with other consciousness you must agree to share the interaction, and by doing so you create your own version of them to experience. You do not experience them directly in terms of the physical dimension. Okay? You experience it directly in terms of the interconnectedness which exists at the source of yourself as all that is. Then how is there co-creation? By agreement. But if it's your interpretation, then how are you interacting with another? It is an idea. Again understand that every consciousness exists on every level simultaneously. Therefore, whatever vibratory level you harmonize at, you will find facets of every other individual or many other individuals to also be upon that level. You will always find like minds who will agree to share an experience with you. You follow me? Unless your choice is that you seem to experience it alone. Well, that's possible. Gosh, it is.

Well, so if all of us are all of it, then it doesn't really matter. Somebody else isn't really somebody else anymore. That's right. Yes. But understand that both ideas are real. The idea that you are all that is and the idea that there is an infinite number of consciousnesses because anything within the imagination of all that is is real. And yet it is a creation at the same time. You follow me? Yeah. You know, it's just some little thing that kind of keeps hanging up there. Then simply understand that any idea is as real as you wish to make it. And as you make it, it becomes real. That is, you can experience it as a separation from the oneness of all that is. You follow me? Every separation, every distortion is real. That is the definition of real: a distortion that you can experience, a perception distortion. This word distortion keeps coming up. All right, simply understand it is not meant in a negative sense. You have one homogeneous idea, all that is, with no separation within it. You exist. That is the base. That is it, period. Everything else is a perception, a variation, a distortion of the oneness because it needs separation from the idea of oneness to be experienced as its own reality. You follow me? Yes. But define distortion. I understand it isn't negative. Then understand again simply a perception. Oh, it's a perception. It is the manifestation of separation from the oneness. Okay, that is a distortion. It is in a sense almost literally when you create the idea of the existence of reality as a series of vibratory patterns, almost literally a distortion of the pattern, a flexing, a bending, a rearranging. Oh, that's right. Yes. Yes, I understand. All right. Thank you.

Now, have you had your question answered? Yeah. Yeah. No, I'm still hung up. And I also got hung up on something else. The term you use, infinite number of consciousnesses. All right. What about it? Well, what about it? I mean, seems very simple to me. Infinite number of consciousnesses, infinite number of separations possible within the one of all that is. Okay. All right. That clears that. What else? I'm still hung up on maybe the wording is not wrong, but sometimes it's hard to talk. In the dream state, let's say that I had a dream that I thought was strange or unusual for whatever consideration, and it involved other people, another being that I knew. How much influence did that other person have with that dream? All right. Now, it will depend again upon their agreement and your agreement. Their agreement? Yes. Okay. Understand that every time you have a projection of what you perceive to be another consciousness, it is your creation. But it is also always connected, as everything is always connected, to that other consciousness. On some level of their consciousness, they are aware of the interaction with you. Perhaps not outwardly conscious, but on some level. I see, now that's the point I was missing, was on that level. All right. I got it. Thank you.

Question. Since we are all that is, we are creating all of the individual consciousnesses. So by definition they are connected to us. Very good. Okay. Now I haven't been able to identify the exact source point of this particular dream, which appears to be something that I didn't directly cause. I can't identify and say, "Oh, I need to learn to integrate this negative energy and not be afraid of it and therefore I'll dream it out and experience it." Now I didn't do that consciously, not that I know of. All right. Again, you made the conscious choice to allow your subconscious to give you what you are not consciously willing to perceive physically. Okay, now that's an interesting idea. I don't know that the statement you are making is true. All right. But it sounds possible. Allow me simply to define the idea that you have been attempting for some time to allow yourself to search and search for certain ideas, to overcome certain blocks that you believe that you have, and have not in your estimation been successful at finding these blocks and allowing yourself to experience these ideas. But you have been consciously willing to look. That is true. Therefore, when you became willing enough, you opened up all the different other levels of your consciousness that could give you the experience. You got the activation of your subconsciousness and the willingness to experience the dream. Now I understand the source. Thank you very much. Thank you. You're very creative. Yes. Yes.

What is the definition of the word Shalomar? Do you know? There will be many different ones in many different languages. How do you perceive it? Oh, it's something very nice. Are you referring to the idea of a specific area or also in a sense civilization or idea or group of consciousness? Group of consciousness. What does it mean for you to have an identification with this idea? Feels very good. All right. Very good. Then simply allow yourself to explore the idea if you wish. I am all right. Then you at any time you wish may share your idea of what Shalomar means to you. Okay. I'll do that. Thank you. Recognize once again that that is your own free choice and free will. The idea may mean many things to many different beings. What it means to you is what your reality is about. Thank you.

Thank you. Question for sure. Yes. I have trouble with the concept of creation. All right. Now, may I interrupt you for one moment? Sure. I understand that your phraseology "I have trouble with this" is only an idea in and of itself. Okay. And it is a choice. Okay. Well, I don't want this choice. All right. Then understand first of all that you may, and it will be real and it will begin to create a real effect. Simply say, "All right, there is an idea I'd like to explore. I do not have trouble with it." Oh, good. "Simply like to explore it." Yeah. All right. That's good. "There's an idea I want to explore here." Thank you. Good. Concerning creation. Yes. When I look at the area of creation, I'm talking about not just creating things in the future right now, but the beginning of it all, all beginning. Yeah. Well, now I know I don't want to get messed up in all kinds of significance here on the beginning of time or that sort of thing, but I want to look. I'm interested in that. Thank you. Go ahead. This concept of there always having been created, I run into a barrier on that idea. Yes, that is part of the idea of physical existence. A barrier on that idea prior to physical existence though? All right. But understand that what you are expressing as the terminology "prior" is also a terminology of physical existence and does not exist in non-physical existence. There is no such thing as prior or post, before or after. No. Yeah. Well, that's I understand. That's where I get lost. All right. But again, understand that is because you are attempting to perceive a non-physical idea with physical definitions. The idea in and of itself of there being a prior to something else is totally a product of this dimension of physicality and as such does not really relate or connect to the non-physical experience. That is why you are having difficulty. That is why it is a barrier. It is one of the defining limits of this dimension itself: the idea of time. I see. So I'm trying to utilize a concept here of a seed planted and growing on a physical dimension, whereas the area that I'm looking at doesn't really relate to this. Very good. And I cross them over and that's where the barriers are. Yes. Okay. Well, could say that from the viewpoint of all that is there is no concept of time or prior cause or future cause at all. From that viewpoint, well, now understand that from the viewpoint of all that is, there is such an idea as time since it exists within the physical dimension. All that is understands itself to be all that is. Therefore, the concept of time is real as you have created it as one of the manifestations or distortions of all that is. It is real. It is experiential. Understand?

All that is obviously has never come across another all that is because if it did it wouldn't be all that is. But I find it interesting because maybe there is another all that is consciousness besides what we think of as all that is. But understand again that all that is by definition must simply always include any other idea that exists. I understand that. All right. There is no outside. If there is something outside, that is also part of all that is by definition. I understand that. I was just still thinking of the idea of all that is as one huge consciousness. All right. But understand that you have touched upon an idea which has occurred in many different ways. You may understand that there is a level of understanding, of perception, of distortion within all that is that has perceived itself to be all that is and yet discover another idea of all that is. That is an idea and as such is a realizable reality, but on the level of all that is looking down on the two other all that is's finding each other, there is still one all that is. You follow me? I follow you, but it would have to be that way, huh? Because simply again a matter of perception. Understand by definition any separation is a distortion of the definition of all that is. All that is is literally that: all that is. Okay. Then if you use other symbols, say God one and God two, that is a distortion of the idea of simply one. You follow me? If you can say there is two, you can understand that there always must be a one or an idea that contains them both. And therefore that is again one all that is, very infinite. You just keep going. Yes, there are in your terminologies the understandings of what you want to be octaves or orders of magnitude. But again it will always be to the idea of all that is. Everything will be contained simply by definition. Oh, because those words even exist: all that is. Yes. Okay. Thank you.

Well, I want to say something. All right. I really love that when you were saying that because I really vibrate to that idea. I think it's a real fun idea. Because I do think of course obviously all that is is all that is by definition, but I do know what she's saying and I wanted to share my own creation. It's like there's a circle, a big sphere you could say, of creation within it that can be perceived within the circle as being all that is, and it's got all these levels of distortion from the oneness. It's just got a rounded shape. Then you're assuming all that is is very fat. No, you know what I'm saying? This is the all that is that makes the other all that is. All that is one and all that is two. In my perception of creation, there's this big sphere or circle. I call it the circle, and that's what's perceived often as all that is. But there's what I call beyond, and that's real fun too. But of course, obviously it's all that is, but it just has a different feel to it, just like the idea of if all that is got lonely and wanted to find another all that is, but instead didn't find another one, created us for company, liked to be able to acknowledge it and say yes you exist and are we all wonderful. This is called the fun game of playing with self, right? All that is is having a very good time right now. Has it ever really gotten along? All right. Thank you very much. Understand what it's about is not so much the idea of loneliness as much as the idea of compassion. For what? Compassion for all of the ideas within all that is, and therefore the support of each and every one of those ideas. It has compassion for itself. Yes. But again within the idea of the separation of the self into many parts, there is the compassion which is the creative supportive force which gave rise to the idea of the separation within all that is. But again understand we are describing the event within the framework of time as you know it, and this idea or framework or separation always has been. Even though we are discussing it as if it were something that was begun. Yeah. Because I have read in some books the idea that this all became started with an idea and then the idea manifested. But what you are saying is there is not even any start to that idea. That idea always existed. Yes. Pretty good. It's like the film strip you described to me. But also in a sense it's always in the act of creation, in that process of birth. Yes. Very good. Yeah. That is the ecstatic explosion of compassionate creation, always giving birth to new perspectives of all that is. Understand then the idea when it is expressed in your terminology of what multi-dimensionality means.

Question. Yeah. If there's no prior, no post, does that mean outside of the physical dimensions that you can't have a sequence of events? You can choose on many different levels of dimension to perceive the idea of sequence. But again it will be a very fluid thing and may disperse quite instantly if your attention or focus shifts, and you may experience many ideas formerly that you have been perceiving as a sequence also as a single simultaneous event. Understand this is the source of the idea that when you physically die you perceive your entire life in a single flash. You are perceiving the simultaneous event of your life as one idea because you unfocus from time. Yes. And that is why again in the pre-death experience there is the shock of the life flashing before the eyes in a single instant. Yes, that's great. You are completely defocused from time. You are totally in the now. Wow. Because you think you are about to lose all your nows. That brings about another question. We've all heard about people having this near-death experience and having a flash of their life. Is this a very rare experience that only happens to a few people or does this actually happen on some level to every one of us when we die? I'll say it happens quite regularly even when you are alive. Yes. Many times you may have this experience even if you are not near death but if you are making a transition. Yeah. The effect is what you call revelation. Would this experience sometimes have a flash of a future as well as the past in a sense? Again, understand what it means to be connected to all of yourself, past, present, future. Since you create your past and your future from now.

Question. I had a thought on that because in this universe when we are born we are babies, and as far as I know it's impossible to just suddenly be a 32 year old. Not impossible. It is very rare. You understand the terminology as walk-in. But even a walk-in gets into a body that's been grown up and born. But again understandably for that consciousness it is being born as a 32 year old. Do you follow me? Yeah. Well, if we at this time as a mass consciousness believed that we could do that, really believed and knew that we could, then we could do that, right? In a sense, understand that in a way there are many different levels of reality in which that occurs. Okay. So it's a matter of what reality we tune into. We can really create anything we want but we have to know that we can, because if we don't know that then we won't create that. You have to simply know yourself that way. Yes. Perceive yourself through that facet of yourself which already exists in that level of reality. Yes. Because if someone said, "Well, if they really knew that they were never going to die, say they just wanted to stay in this physical body forever and never wanted to die, stay in whatever form they're in on this earth," they could do that if they really believed it and knew and felt that they could and knew it beyond a shadow of a doubt. Right. I mean it would be right. Yes. In a sense that occurs. Not that anybody would want to do that. And if it does, there are consciousnesses experiencing that idea. Actually I have heard of that. About how many are there among the earth right now that have been around for say several thousand years at least? Now understand that to a degree they are upon your earth and are not as they vibrate at a slightly different frequency to be the idea of immortal. They vibrate at a slightly different frequency. I see. About how many of them would you say there might exist? Very, very few. That is not known to us. Okay.

In making the transition from the third dimension or third density to the fourth, is it necessary to let the body go or can the body continue existing? You will have, as you always do, every moment of time that you create yourself again to exist, simply a new type of body, what you may call a light body. You will perceive yourself physically as you understand the idea, but you will simply be vibrating in a different way. Okay? And for those who are still among the third density consciousness, they will perceive you as a third density entity. If you are fourth density, they will not perceive you. Okay? Well, that is the idea again of the creation of what you call the splitting into parallel universes. As you exist right now with many other parallel universes and do not perceive them, walking right through you right now. Right. So basically for my family, let's just say that I move along and decide to create the idea of the fourth density and my family is still creating the idea of the third density, then there will be a parallel existence with me in that parallel existence and it is actually still me, but I'm focusing on vibrating at the fourth density level. Understand again what it means to live multi-dimensionally. All of your consciousness is extended into every level of existence. Right. I understand. And as such there can be a you with them and a you without them. Wait. Okay. Right. Right. I understand that. But I would be focused on the fourth density. What I'm saying is being able to not limit my focus to just one aspect and be able to knowingly perceive and be conscious of all the different aspects of myself, or gradually do that. All right. But again, understand that to some degree the experience of each and every idea which has the idea of limitation within it will by definition know that you already exist in all these other levels. Now from time to time you may again give yourself the opportunity to consciously give yourself perceptions of this idea. Yes, but again understand that the degree of your willingness to do that will be limited by your own understanding of the purpose for which you have projected yourself into the various dimensions of reality. Otherwise if it is simply your purpose to go hopping from reality to reality, then that is what you will do and you will experience your reality shifting around and about you constantly. Now understand that you do experience this idea more in the afterlife reality when you are a thought form in a world of thought forms. So what you're saying basically is in the various dimensions I created these limitations in order to experience a specific thing within that level of reality or within that dimension. But it is an idea in and of itself, and you may experience all the different levels too. Yes. Okay. But again understand that if that is the only idea then you will simply hop from reality to reality, the hippity hopping. Okay.

Going back to when was the decision made? You said the afterlife. Is that sort of a neutral area? Neutral. Not very active. Well, no. Neutral like that's where I would make the decisions to put the limitations on myself and decide which reality or which dimension? No, I make the decisions now too. But again, simply understand that we are going roundabout with you so that we will allow you to understand that we do not wish you to understand from what we communicate to you that you must begin some sort of a quest. Oh, well, unless you want to. It is your choice, right? But again understand that simply the idea many times of going on a quest may be another way of not being willing to look at the purpose for which you originally chose to be here. But if that understanding can be blended within the knowingness of yourself as all that is, then it will manifest. It is simply knowing the self and knowing the purpose, and you can blend the ideas. Thank you.

From what I understand, we can have more than one physical body at a time. Are you expressing the idea of counterpart? Well, I'm not sure just what I am expressing. It seems like I have heard more than once. Do you mean an identical body or a different body? A different body. Counterpart. Yes. Okay. So if I should decide to die, leave this physical body here, what happens to the other physical body? Whatever they wish, whatever they have chosen. They have their own life. They are their own consciousness. Understand that when you meet a counterpart, you view them as a completely different being with their own free will. Follow me? Not quite. They are not your puppets. They are their own people. So they would just go on continuing as they have chosen because it's totally separate. Yes. It is the idea of the separation which makes them their own person. Understand? Would you be willing to be told by another, "I'm going to die now, that is the end of you"? No. But I was talking about what happened. Understand you have had counterparts many times in many lives that have died. You're still here. You have chosen to be here. Many of those counterparts are not here now with you. Some are. Understand again it is the same as viewing any individual within this room. Your counterpart is another person unto themselves. Simply they are connected to the same whole soul self. Ah, thank you. Okay.

I have a couple questions. One in regard to that and then another in regard to archetypal energy. Okay. I don't understand why you would be a future self of Daryl rather than a counterpart because you are both existing simultaneously at the same time. So why would you come? That is how you perceive the idea right now. Understand? If you were to come from your planet to our planet within our spacecraft, how would you know what time you were in? Understand that to travel in space is also to travel in time. You follow me? Yes, I follow that. But I still don't see. I would call you a counterpart right now. All right. If you wish. And then if I were to go to your planet, then I might call you the future self. All right. Yes, you might. And both will be true. When I am in your time frame, you may say I am a counterpart. When I am in my own time frame, you may say I am a future self. And if I travel into the past in my spacecraft then I am a past self. The idea that you are Daryl's future self, but is your counterpart and therefore not his future self but is someone else's future self? To me it just seemed like all counterparts. That's what I was just saying. But that is simply the viewpoint that all consciousness stems from the same source and is without the viewpoint of time, all simultaneous. So you may understand that every being within all time frames, all realities, are counterparts. Yes. Okay. I don't really... that's something. I'm going to take a look. All right. The terminology that has been being used is simply very specific. That is all. "Counterpart" has only been used specifically to refer to identical time frame whole soul self projections. Oh, it's only a label on this planet. Yes. Oh I see. Okay. Or any planet.

Another thing is in regard to archetypal energy. You said that I was getting in touch with my own archetypal energy. Yes. Now, when Daryl is channeling Nehemiah, is he actually getting in touch with his own archetypal energy? Is that what that means? I think you might mean that when someone channels an idea of an essence rather than a personality, that idea exists separate from the person, but when it's channeled through them it takes on their personality too because it's not actually a personality unto itself. Okay. So when Daryl channels Nehemiah, that would be different than when someone else with a different personality channels him. Very good, because it's going through their own archetypal idea of that. Yes. Okay. Very good. Great. Thank you very much.

What is archetypal energy? Could you explain that? Understand that what you call the mass consciousness has its own subconscious self. That subconscious self allows there to be portions of your consciousness which do not manifest in your physical reality to manifest in that version of a physical reality, and as such it is populated with its own sense of personality and consciousness. But it is an underlying current, a subconscious portion of your mass consciousness. You may understand the idea of the energy when you view portions of the mass consciousness in symbolic terms and make them or project them to be physical. From time to time there is overlap. There will then be the rise of stories, what you call mythological creatures. You follow me? Yes. Very nice. Thank you. Thank you.

Question. How many counterparts might one whole soul self have? It is up to them. Any number. Yes. In a sense. There will be to a degree limitation based upon the civilization involved. In a sense, are we actually all counterparts again on one level? Yes. Yes. So maybe some of us are counterparts to one whole soul self and then other whole soul selves are counterparts to other whole soul selves, and it goes on up from the root trunk of the tree to be all one tree. Yes. Thank you.

How would one recognize a counterpart? You may not. You might not even like the other half. Yes. Understand again, however, it will always be an opportunity to view the overall purpose of the whole soul self. Simply when the whole soul self projects different personalities into physical reality at the same time, there is a purpose within that idea of allowing itself to experience itself from different points of view. Oh, I have another thing. When people who see visions for instance and the visions materialize and talk to them, like I was reading a book where someone had a guru and when his guru died he missed him physically, and so his guru came back one more time to talk with him physically and he could touch him and everything, yet he had died. That's the idea of archetypal energy again, isn't it? The idea that you can to a degree form a thought and actually give it a form and talk to it, and then dematerialize again because it's really not vibrating within our reality to stay. Yes. Very good. Understand that that other individual who had died was still to some degree connected to the idea. Right. But yes, you have described well within the context of your civilization and the vibrational pattern represented by your level of physicality. Like when children have their invisible playmates that to them might be quite visible, and they've created that and it's real for them, and it is real. Yes. And they can talk to it and talk back. Yes. I was going to talk about the idea of insanity? No, I wasn't. Dissimilar, you know, according to our definition. Yes. Could you talk a little bit about that? It has already been discussed. This is simply the perception of other realities not completely shared by the mass reality in which you are also partaking. No less real, just not the mass agreed upon reality.

Could you discuss a bit about the difference and similarities between the dream state and what we call the death state or leaving the body? All right. Now to some degree, not really too much difference. Understand that the idea of the dream reality, imagination reality, physical reality are all different portions and versions and viewpoints of the same one all that is reality. Different ways of looking at yourself. The dream reality is much the death experience. Understand that what you remember of the dream reality is a physical interpretation. You follow me? Yes. In that way, you may say that the more bizarre the memory of the dream, the more real the experience in the dream level, the less sense your physical level will be able to make of it. It will use whatever symbols it has at its disposal. But the more deeply lived the dream reality, the less that the physical symbols will make analytical sense. You follow me? Yes, I do. I've had the idea that having dropped the body might be like being in the dream and not being able to wake up or get back to physical reality. You now have to some degree the awareness that it is for you the real perception. You will not feel lost or locked into a dream. You will know yourself to be there really, in the same way that when you experience astral projection, though it may have dreamlike qualities, you know what you are perceiving is real. Do you follow me? Yes, I do. Thank you. Understand that you are dreaming right now. Yes, I know. I have glimpses of that from time to time. All right. How does it feel? Feels quite real. I do. It is. You may take your break.

All right. Question. Yes. I want to discuss more of a physical area now. Specifically physical sensation, the sexual orgasm. What is actually taking place there? I've read in some studies or philosophies that one reason it is such a joyous experience is that you are creating the future or creating future bodies for your existence. Not so much that idea. Understandably you are within that instinct connecting to all of yourself and giving yourself the physical reflection or mirroring of that same idea. At the moment of connection, you are creating physical changes which will release or spur both electrical and chemical interaction which drive the consciousness inward to the center of itself, but at the same time that is ultimately an expansion outward into every level of existence into which you project yourself. So you will find it to be simultaneously the total withdrawal inward and the expansion outward to full extension. You follow me? No wonder it's so attractive. Yes, I do. I've heard that it's a little trip out of the body. Only in that sense that we have described. Understand that the idea of the physical sexual encounter will be fully focused in the physical form, as within your astral state it is not experiential. Therefore, understand that within the astral state, as you undertake astral projection, if there is the choice of the stimulation of your consciousness in that way, you will immediately snap back to your physical body in order to experience what you cannot experience non-physically. You follow me? So in a sense, is there no such thing as sex in any other kind of dimension? It is simply interaction of consciousness. What you term physical sex as you know the idea will simply be physical. You will have interaction and sharing of consciousness which may feel to be a part of the sexual act when you allow that spiritual sharing to also manifest within the physical sex act. You follow me? In other words, as you experience the physical sex act, if you also allow for the willingness of the connection to take place spiritually as well as physically, then that sharing spiritually is what you will experience in the non-physical form, but not the physical sensation. That's why people say that sex is better when you're in love. All right. But again, understand that the idea of being in love is to be completely connected to all of yourself, to all that is.

There are people that believe it's better to be celibate and that they will gain knowledge of themselves faster or easier if they abstain. All right, that is their choice. Realize that's an idea, but I don't necessarily know if there's any validity to that except that for those individuals there is validity because that is what they have created. So if they were to allow themselves to have orgasms they would feel that they were deterring themselves from their spiritual path, and they probably therefore would be, to themselves, because that's what they believe at that time. It is their idea. Understand it may change, it may not. It will be up to them. Yeah. Okay. I have a question. Understand simply that there may be more in the sense again two ways to look at that: in the overall sense of simply experiencing a time of experiencing the self without the idea of sexual interaction, but not in the resistance or shunning of it as something less than worthy within all that is. That's good. Right. Thank you. Yes.

In the last several days, I've experienced extreme emotionality, almost insane, as if anticipating something in the future, and the body itself is going through a nervous feeling, and I feel vulnerable, not totally in control, like I'm walking around in my dream more than I am in physical reality. Very good. You're describing all of the physical effects of disconnecting from one reality and forming another, but also allowing the disconnection transformation neutral limbo state in and of itself to also be a valid experiential reality. Okay. You follow me? Yes, I do. So just ride with it. Yes. Okay. It will be very enjoyable. There is much to experience within the transformation itself. Yes. I feel that. Thank you.

Question. Are you sure? Along those same lines, I've experienced particularly today something that I didn't really... okay, nothing's an interruption, so it all has its purpose. I perceive that sometimes there are fluctuations in the vibration or the energy field here in the city of LA that at particular times cause in the body a very nervous, frenetic kind of reaction where we all want to kill each other. I know that, and just knowing that helps because then you don't kill somebody. You just wait a few days. I just wanted to know if there's any suggestions for allowing that simply to flow or understanding its nature better. Similarly, you may understand your own nature. Flow with that, and you will not have the effect. Oh, that's very good. Thank you.

Next. My reality includes a lot of looking at numbers. I've been studying numbers and thinking about numbers. I've been wondering if numbers exist on the spiritual plane in a similar state of understanding as on the physical plane. Not quite the same. The root point of the idea is expressed more in the patterns of harmonic resonance rather than in the symbolicness of the mathematical number. Yes, I understand that the physical plane's manifestation is manifestation of numbers. So is the spiritual plane in its own way a manifestation of numbers? The harmonic may extend through all dimensions of reality in that it is simply one way to describe the vibrations which compose the primal energy which is the foundation of all creation. You follow me? Yes. Also another way which exists on your plane also on many other planes will be tonality. Yes, they coexist. Does your planet follow the same single-digit one through nine system or is it different? It is to some degree different, but understand that we have the recognition within that system simply of the cognition of many different vibratory patterns in whole conceptual form. So you have more than one through nine? Single digit meaning what would be translatable? Every idea may be expressed as a single digit. Yes. How many ideas are there? A lot. Oh, I see. Thank you. Again it is a matter of how you look at the idea, how you wish to add or blend any idea, what type and how many separations you wish to create. You follow me? Yes. Understandably we do to some degree have a similar understanding of the idea that you experience as mathematics, but it is different. To some degree it will involve magnitudes or dimensionalities which for us will be experiential as well as symbolic. Every idea is a reality to be experienced. Therefore, you may say that when we choose to understand the mathematical relationship of an idea, we become that idea, experiencing it directly by simply knowing. Therefore, it will not take a great deal of figuring out how to construct some idea. It will simply be understood in what you would term instinct, as you experience the idea of your animal life making many constructions that are mathematically perfect, following the nature of mathematics. They will be doing it by becoming the mathematics rather than thinking about them. It is not analyzation. Yes. Thank you.

A few days ago, we launched a satellite and it didn't work at all. Can you give me any idea why it didn't work? Allow me to say first of all that it will be part of your own experience to discover that idea. But simply allow me to suggest that you take into consideration certain heat factors generated within certain ideas of circuitry over the entire load. All right. Thank you.

Question. I've been seeing... the other night Christina shared something about an experience she had with sensation with the earth. When I closed my eyes, I had a pattern come to me that had to do with the energy she was describing. Lately when I feel certain energies, I'll have these abstract patterns flash into my mind. I really like them because I like abstract things like that. But also every idea would have some kind of energy pattern. All right, to a degree. So as you understand the idea of pattern within your physical universe, it will be perceived to have a signature vibration which identifies that idea, like a symbol, like a letter will be a symbol for a word. Understand that what you call physical reality is a symbol. We are all symbols. Yes. Different idea. Yes. Thank you.

Question. We had a tremendous amount of smog over LA and it seems like I can hardly tolerate smog. My eyes got to hurting so badly, my body got to hurting. How does one handle the body to handle the smog? All right, again understand as I have already expressed: allow yourself to become involved with yourself. Allow yourself to identify with the reality that you identify with which does not include that effect for you. Then you may walk through a thick cloud of smog and not feel a thing. It will have nothing to do with you. You may observe it knowing that you are a part of this reality which has that creation within it, but it is not your shared part of the reality. Identify your own vibration, your own tone, and understand that that is simply not part of that tone in the sense of a negative effect. It is part of the overall tone in that you share the mass consciousness in recognizing that manifestation. But recognize it simply as a manifestation. Do not judge it. Do not judge yourself. Simply allow yourself to vibrate at whatever level of resonance you wish so that it has nothing to do with that particular manifestation in terms of a negative effect upon you. Understand that reference to that idea throughout much of your literature. There are many references to that idea within what you term your Bible, experiencing or walking through situations which have no effect upon the walker. That is fair reality. I've been able to handle a lot of things that come to you. All right, now allow me to suggest something also. Understand it is not a matter of having to handle anything. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. I've listed vibrations of anything that seemed to be bothering me and anymore handle them very quickly, and I was amazed that I just couldn't even seem to cope with the smog. I guess that was the reason I couldn't match that vibration. All right. Simply allow yourself to relax and enjoy what your imagination brings you about your relationship to that idea. Understand it again as yet another opportunity to view another portion of yourself and integrate it within you so that you will vibrate at a resonance which no longer needs to be affected by that idea negatively. Thank you. Passing through the experience, living the experience always allows you to integrate it and as such move on to the next tool. Then that will no longer be a tool that you need to experience in a negative way. It is very simple. Thank you. Yes.

Monday night of our time, there was something that occurred and I wanted to find out if you perceived it. One of the moments in between the moments that we perceived, there were three beings that showed up at the house there in the hallway. I just wanted to know did you perceive them? Did you know they were there? Simply allow me to say that at this time we will recognize a certain degree of purpose behind the idea, but as such there will be at this time no other information available. Okay. One other thing on that. Since that occurred, the left side of my head has been hurting a lot. I just want to know do you think it might be connected? I'm not real certain, but I think it is. All right. Follow your instinct. See where it leads you. Okay. Thank you.

Question. Bashar, one of our earlier scientists by the name of Nikola Tesla supposedly developed a method of materializing energy anywhere on the planet without transmission. Do you know if he actually developed that method? Yes. And can you give me the basics of what was involved? Simply it was an understanding of the entirety of the idea of what you call your earth crystal as one crystal, one vibration. Understand that it has a signature vibration of 7 and 1/2 cycles per second. The wavelength of that frequency will find itself reaching its crest in an ever-expanding circle from one point upon your planet, reaching its crest at the equator. It will then rebound to the opposite apex of the origin point, then bounce again back to the origin point passing over the equator, picking up momentum, creating one resonant frequency through the entire field of the earth, and as such will make available at any point upon the earth the tapping into appropriately of that energy. So he was using a tapping source rather than generating it from a particular source. It was generated, but it was not so much just generated as activated or put into motion the field which already exists in its own natural frequency. So did he create a matching resonance at one point which then tapped into the other, much in the same way that we would tune a channel on a television? Yes. But understand that at the time much of the technology existent could not be tuned to that vibration, and so simply suffered shorting out, and so there was much in your terms hew and cry. Was he able to draw energy from the earth source or did he have to generate? Again, understand it is not so much drawing as it is putting into motion. There was simply the electrical generation which initiated the movement of the field. Then it was to a degree self-sustaining to a certain point. You're building on a harmonic sequence. Yes. Very good. What did he use for the receiver to draw the energy out? Simply it was an interaction with the electromagnetic field round and about your planet. Not so much a receiver, simply the sender of a certain harmonic vibration which created a harmonic resonance within the field of the earth. It was the idea of simply pulsing. Oh, I see.

When I'm in touch with the earth crystal I feel that same thing. Yes. Very good. Thank you.

Question. Bashar, in the Ra material, it talks about that the earth already changed to the fourth density, the physical earth as opposed to the people on it. What does that mean? We submit that the mass consciousness is almost completely realized into the fourth density vibration, and the idea of the entire earth crystal overly coincides to a degree with that idea. You are on the cusp, right in the doorway. In the same idea of the pulsing, you are experiencing a slingshot effect. Vibration is manifesting towards that idea but in a way has already manifested. Your own consciousness is now deciding to what idea you will vibrate. There is a window of time lasting a few of your years in which you may decide which way you wish to go. And those who would wish to continue operating on a third density vibration would choose another planet, an alternate parallel idea of that particular earth. It will not seem to them to have changed. It would just be the same good old earth. That is the part of it which isn't going to change.

Question. What is going on in the Bermuda Triangle with vessels disappearing and stuff? Simply you will find from time to time manifestation of the physicalization of the overlap of many different dimensions of reality. You understand? So they are going to different dimensions. They are leaving this physical planet. Some simply experience the electromagnetic effects without the transference and are destroyed. Many of those incidents still exist on your planet simply underneath your ocean, having crashed or sunk. You follow me? If the people that survive that, do they know that they're in another dimension or do they go on? After a very short time they acclimate, become that identity, different vibration, so they don't even know the change. To them it's like when we go into another reality parallel. Very good.

If we went to Essassani in our own time frame and we find Bashar not been born for 145 years... Again understand that the idea of what we have transmitted to you as Essassani: if you were able to coexist with that vibration you would simply be there in the time frame that we exist, because the idea to you is a future idea. You follow me? I think so. Understand that when you vibrate with the idea you call Essassani, when you are there, you will be 300 years in your future.

I've always wondered if a spirit came into this dimension from another dimension where there was no time, would they not necessarily come in at any time? They would come in at any time they choose. Understand that is what you do when you give yourself past, present, and future lives. You may come in anytime you wish simultaneously. But while you are here, you think it is a past life you already had, a present life you have now, and a future life you have yet to experience. But you are a spirit coming in from no time into time, anywhere you wish along the time track simultaneously. Right.

I also wondered if we went back far enough in time, would we perceive time totally in a different way as well? If we went back a billion years, would time seem the same to us or would it feel totally different? There may be ideas of both in that way. You may perceive that you are in a different time frame. It may feel different, but you may still perceive time as you know it as well. You will check yourself by counting. You follow me? Yeah. Might be a little faster or slower or something. Again, will be up to you. How long have we been a billion years in the past? One hour. All right. Time to go home and for lunch. You follow me? It will be up to you. Time is malleable. I suppose everyone perceives time in their own way.

Do you have any ideas or suggestions on how to manipulate time, to stretch it? Understand that when you are completely living, then you do not recognize the passage of time. You follow me more or less? You have been so completely involved in an idea that you did not know how many hours had passed; it seemed like minutes. Yeah. Understand for you, you projected yourself ahead. You only experienced minutes. Then you had collapsed the idea of time. I'd like to have more control over that. You do. You cannot have any more than you already have. Time is your creation. Simply by becoming involved in what you are doing and not worrying about the passage of time will time fly. You know what you say about having fun. It is as simple as that. Allow yourself to live rather than think about it. When you think about it, thinking takes time. When you live, no time at all. Oh, that's wonderful. Thank you. Thank you.

Question. I've experienced a lot of times a consciousness that is in trees and limbs and buds. They seem to acknowledge me. Yes. When you allow yourself to acknowledge that idea as being real, as your connection to all consciousness, every idea is consciousness in one form or another. Would it be the same consciousness as ourselves in a sense? Yes, it is a part of all that is. You are all that is. They seem to recognize me and the fact that I'm acknowledging them. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Oh, thank you. It is always very beautiful to communicate with your own consciousness through the idea you have created which you call nature. Yeah. Really? Then you'll understand that you are a part of the earth crystal. And that it is also conscious. Yes. And that is the idea again as expressed in the terminology Gaea, the consciousness of the earth. What was that? The terminology Gaea is the consciousness of the earth. Where does that word come from? Much of your ancient literature.

Question. I seem to be changing my concept of time and creation. Yes. I used to look at creation in the sense that I'm going to have this idea and if I do certain things eventually it will come about, putting it on a time frame into the future. The way I seem to be looking at it now is that the creation has already taken place. Yes, it is. It is the allowance. It's the allowance and the assuming that it is already taking place. You're eliminating the physical barriers of time. It automatically eliminates, or not so much eliminates but allows it to be manifested within the least amount of time possible for your reality. Right. So it comes down to faith in your beingness. That is all there is. I Am. Yes. And every idea is complete. That's it. I'm done. Thank you.

Now you may begin. Thank you. You're welcome.

Question. Can you tell us anything about Findhorn? Why is it that in that place people see fairies and all kinds of stuff? Simply understand the willingness of the individuals to be in touch with their own archetypal energy, their relationship to the earth crystal and all levels of their consciousness expressed in that way specifically. Is there anything special about that place or just that the people are attracted to that place? They have made it special for themselves. Again, understand that there are energy points upon your planet which you may understand in the same way that your body has chakras. That will be one of them to a degree. The recognition of the energy will simply be again another willingness to allow the self to be in touch with the earth crystal and its energy flow. What they make of it is their choice.

Question. Are there things that you personally like more than other things? There are ideas to which I identify. But again, it is not a matter of like. What I am, I unfold. Why don't you like or not like? When you know what you are, you enjoy everything. What is there not to enjoy? You just don't allow to exist in your reality what you do not enjoy. We do not vibrate with the idea. Therefore, we never come across an idea we do not enjoy. I see. Wow. Do you have any preference? It is how it works for you as well. The idea you call preference will simply be that idea to which I am willing to vibrate. Period. So you could experience something you didn't like if you chose to. Yes. Okay. But again understand that to some degree the idea that you represent as our civilization will already have worked through that idea; as such, no need. So it's such a different way of looking at things instead of "I like this food and I don't like that food." You just look at it in a different way: I'm attracted to this food right now. That is what I am right now. This is how I vibrate right now. Therefore, if I am equal to this idea right now, then it is joyful automatically. We don't have to think about it. We simply enjoy it.

If you look at something and you don't vibrate towards it, is it because you have no need to experience it or because you don't want it? Again, understand that simply when you have your own vibration, what you may observe to be a part of the overall mass consciousness you are in but not part of your own personal reality, you will simply find yourself either not interacting with it or find yourself impassive, impartial. You will know when you are resisting an idea because there will be a great deal of emotionality involved. Right? So if there's no emotionality involved, that's something else. Realize that knowing precedes emotionality. What you know you do not necessarily have to feel, although that is a great compassion because you will still recognize yourself as connected, recognize any idea as a reflection of yourself. But if it is owned, then no need to make a big deal about it. You simply recognize it.

Question. Some of us got together last night and felt the presence of Anna, and we were allowing ourselves to communicate with her. At first we were kind of stilted and trying to be serious, and then after a while we started goofing off and being random and funny, and we really started to get a feel of Essassani being a big ball of everyone having a real ball. I was wondering about the limitations that you still create as far as being an Essassani. Understandably, there will still be much of the idea of physicality, of the time frame, from time to time. There will be magnitudes of consciousness to which we are also still exploring. You follow me? Can you be more specific? There are dimensions of reality of which we know nothing. So you're still exploring. We always will be. Of course. So will you. Sure. Every consciousness operates on every level. In this focus up until more recently, we've tended to be very focused on one level to a degree, except we can't stay connected up in dream space and whatnot. How is it focused there? Are you focused to any degree on some of your consciousness that are at levels other than the fourth density? To some degree. But realize that we have chosen to do or say many ideas which involve focus within the third level and the transition from third to fourth. Understand that the idea of knowing or being in contact with information will be limited by our allowance or our choice of not wishing to interfere with free will. Whose free will? Anyone's, including your own. Therefore, when we communicate with you many times, we will not know information that you seek from us. That will be our sign that to know it would be to interfere with your free will. Yes, I understand. Therefore, we have chosen the limitation of not knowing many things. Right. Otherwise we wouldn't really have taken this whole life seriously, right? I know that you have those limitations, but I just wanted more of a feel of what it tends to be like. Obviously it's very different than the third density. Now realize we are still, as you say, third density. Oh, so you're going through the transition too. Yes. All the counterpart civilizations are. I see. Wow. That's really wild. There are different ideas even within third density. Yes, I've noticed. Very different. Like there's a lot of different stations on the AM dial. Right. Is there anything else you can tell me about the fourth density? You will find out. Have you found anything surprising or interesting about this dimension or our planet as compared to your planet? Understand that when the initial contacts were made, the idea that you call religion was a great surprise. I have not found it anywhere else. You have not found the idea of religion? Many different ideas of religion, and the idea in and of itself of not being but simply following, pretending. You mean a separateness of religion per se and the idea of being and living? Yes. It was a great reflection for us of all of the possibilities within all that is and the idea of the integration of the positive and negative energies. It was a great teaching. Thank you.

Is that a similar reflection to the Orion energy? Not really. But understand simply that within any particular manifestation upon your planet, there will be the opportunity to experience service to self or service to all that is, freedom of choice or the idea of domination. Any endeavor is not restricted to the idea of your core religion. I see. So domination doesn't really exist anywhere else like here? It does in that beings have chosen to experience the idea of domination. There are civilizations that choose to experience the idea of a suppression of free will. But it is a choice. They choose to view that there are betters and lessers, as much upon your planet has chosen to experience the idea as well. So it's a separation from what you believe and what you are. Yes.

Question. Is that phenomenon what creates the shells? Yes. Separation again from what you are will create the artificiality, shells of artificial emotions, hope, analyzation, and so on. Thank you.

Question. Do all those other civilizations... you say the association is composed of about how many civilizations? Did you say six or do they all have a different time frame and so on? There will be to some degree harmonious interaction, and that will occur within your terminology one time frame. Otherwise in and of themselves they operate on many different frequencies of existence. Understand that to a degree any idea that is its own civilization, its own mass consciousness, exists in a slightly different vibration. Therefore, when traveling from planet to planet, there is the idea of shifting in frequency in order to experience the consciousness upon that planet. Otherwise, you may simply experience that planet as barren or not experience the planet at all. So in a sense, if we went all over the universe, we'd just find barren planets unless we shifted our frequency. Yes. In the whole universe. Understand although there will be many civilizations on many planets who will be very close to your frequency, if they are close to your frequency they are close to your level of civilization and not what you would term advancement. That is why the idea of advancement, while we do not view it as being better, in your terminology advancement implies existing within a future time, a future vibration. The idea that someday we will achieve that is a future thought, a future projection. When you are in that civilization, even though it seems to be simultaneous, you will understand that you had to shift your vibrational level to the idea of being equal to that future projection. Any civilizations that you find close to your own vibration will also be exactly at your level of civilization to some degree. So we could perceive them without shifting? It will still be a slight shift, still be by agreement. You may not be aware of it. It may be very slight. There are civilizations upon many of the planets within your own solar system but not physically as you understand it. It is another dimensional shift. Therefore, all of the planets within your solar system, aside from your own, will appear to be barren of that type of life. Follow me? If we went to a civilization on Mars or Venus in a different time frequency, do they look at Earth and see Earth as barren? In a sense, yes. So they don't know that there's life on Earth even though they have great civilizations there in a different frequency? Yes. Understand again, to travel in space is to travel in time. Space and time are all the same idea. There are other civilizations within your solar system in different time frequencies, different dimensional frequencies, but not in your own. Are all the planets in this solar system inhabited? Not really in that sense. You will find many different ideas. There will be planets which you perceive to still exist which have civilizations upon them in your past in a sense, some in your future, some of which are yourselves. There are civilizations in past time frames where the planet no longer exists. You follow me? Yes. There are also consciousnesses within different dimensions of reality, not existing in a sense upon the planet as you understand it, but existing and being able to perceive all the different levels of all the civilizations that have existed, do exist, or will exist on all the planets in your solar system. They function as what you understand to be to some degree the council of your system. You follow me? There is for every system the idea of a council or an association which perceives and interacts with all other consciousness for the idea expressed within any particular system. They are representatives. Are they individuals or are they more like an essence or archetypal? Both. It consists of both in a sense. Could we as individuals be part of an overall council to some degree? But I will say that still within your mass consciousness will be a different time frame for you. Oh, I see. Is there an approximate time of that? Not at this time. Is this the Galactic Federation? Simply understand that the idea of Galactic Federation will be more the idea of what we call the association. What we term to be your council will simply be the portion of the association with relative representation of a particular system. It will be a portion of the association. Do you follow me? How long have you known of our existence? Do you mean in the sense of physicality? Approximately in your terms of time, there will be to some degree variation depending upon the viewpoint, but understand simply approximately 275 years. That was how long ago you first heard of religion? 275 years ago. So we must have been vibrating at some frequency equal to yours or similar. It was when we began to understand the idea of our counterpart consciousness within you. You will understand the vibration of the counterpart consciousness within another civilization and relate to them in much the same way we relate to you within approximately the same amount of time from now. Would everyone on your planet relate to us or only certain individuals? At this point, since we are also vibrating within the idea of a mass consciousness, everyone. So then everyone on Earth will recognize a counterpart civilization at some point. Yes. How long would that take? Within as we have said the approximation of your mass consciousness at this time, roughly 300 years. Meaning we'll have news bulletins and stuff like that? You will simply at that time know your own consciousness. You will not need that idea you call the media. Oh, that's great.

Could the Sirians in a similar fashion just come and basically discover you? Similar, different but similar. 275 years ago or would it be another 300? That would be slightly different. In their terms of time, their fluctuation and idea of themselves took quite a different path. It would be the awareness 500 of your years ago. But to some degree their awareness preceded our awareness of them. Their awareness of you. Yes. It's certainly possible for all these time definitions to change. Correct.

If all the civilizations in this solar system hit upon the same frequency at the same time, wouldn't that be interesting? Understand that to some degree that may occur, but by definition they will by being other civilizations be on a slightly different frequency. Otherwise you would be part of the same civilization having different viewpoints, different aspects, different facets, which is in a sense possible. But you wouldn't recognize it as one civilization. That's like each of us vibrating at a different frequency individually, right? Otherwise we wouldn't see each other separately. Yes. Very good.

There will be in your terms a few more minutes.

Question. Do you have ice cream on your planet? I wanted to ask that too. Would you like some? You better stay here. Relating to the vibration of ourselves, our understanding of ourselves at this time, there will be the consumption more of what you would understand to be fruit and vegetable, also the consumption of the idea that has been created within the mass consciousness of an organic idea which is separate from naturally growing fruit and vegetable, but is created from the mass consciousness so that it will simply be a projection from ourselves in a more direct sense. For the most part, no need to consume the naturally growing consciousness of the fruit and vegetable. What about the Sirian civilizations? What do they eat? Energy. They fluctuate within ideas of time. The fluctuations in and of themselves provide the sustaining idea. I've heard stories that there have been people on this earth planet who have been able to just live on energy without eating, and they were just demonstrating that ability, not saying we were all going to be like that, but just showing it's fun.

Question. You look like the people on the Pleiades. The Pleiadian civilization is similar? Not quite. What's the difference? As we have described ourselves, we will be approximately of average height 5 feet. Skin coloration will be the major difference; ours is white to whitish gray. Pleiadians are more along your own line. Do you have different variations of skin like we have black people? Not as much. We have long since integrated. Pleiadians can walk on earth without being recognized more or less. Yes.

Can you tell us anything about interactions with the Ladies or do you leave that to their emissary Hamilton? For right now, allow me to say the specifics need not be commented upon.

I had another question. When I asked a question a few weeks ago about Lazarus, and also a number of times when people ask questions having to do with some other consciousness, and then you pause for a while, are you communicating with that being and finding out what they want to say? Not quite as literally as you understand it, but in a sense. It is more the checking with the vibration of the mass consciousness and the purpose unfolding at the time with regard to any particular idea within it. Yes.

I was listening to a tape where Tom was channeling, and the voice manifestation, the way the words were said and the tone, sounded very much like yours, and yours sounds very much like Animus too. Is there some particular point that all of you flow your consciousness through, or to some degree is there that interaction? But also to a great degree it is part and parcel of the idea contained within the consciousness of the channels themselves. You follow me? No. In other words, you are receiving a translation through a translation device that the channel provides. There is simply similarity within the experience of how they choose to relate to the idea of the communication. Therefore, much of the translation will be similar in terms of the effect, the way the words are said and the emphasis on certain words. Even from Tom to Daryl, to some degree it will represent the idea of the blending of those consciousnesses as well as the blending of our consciousnesses. There is the blending of the physical consciousnesses within the channels themselves in the purpose of interacting and forming the idea of a network of all the different events taking place. Also there is the communication between ourselves and the other conscious methods that channel through the physical channels. Both ideas will create to some degree the sense of similarity.

Bashar, this Wednesday group that just started tonight, is there any outline that you might have for us, any kind of format at all? Only that I will say simply it will be understood very quickly within the energy of this group that life, living, is the only process necessary. Got it. So it'll be spontaneity every session. Yes. Great. Thank you. We will say simply that the sharing of consciousness is an indication for you of the extension of your own consciousness into all the different levels of yourself. Allow yourself within the understanding of the unfoldment of your own life, within the spontaneous creation that you are, to understand that the support service to the idea of all that is is automatic support and service to yourself.
