---
heading: Part 3 of Self-Created Journey
title: "What Happened in 1980?"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1985-01-27
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 13
tags: ['maldek', 'frequency']
---


## On Levels of Awareness

**Questioner:** We have different obviously different levels of awareness in different areas.

Who is the most aware being or group of beings on your planet? 

**Bashar:** The most aware? Is this a contest? No, they win. Well, I'd like to get an idea how far advanced or how far so that you will know for yourself that you have to struggle a long time. So you will feel even more insignificant. Well, I'm just kind of curious. I was just kind of curious if they could match me.



## On the Asteroid Belt

**Questioner:** Was the asteroid belt once a planet?

Yes. 

How long ago did it become the asteroid belt?


It was several million years ago.

It once occupied the orbit now occupied by the planet you know as Mars and vice versa.

They exchanged orbit. That is why you will find there was life upon that planet. It was well within the zone of life within your solar system, being the third and fourth planets. 

Yes, also that is why we will make sure that does not happen again. But I will tell you that within four of your years ago, your mass consciousness together decided that that would not happen. In other words, why we would not allow that to happen? You have already taken the responsibility out of our hands.


**Questioner:** Was that reflected directly in the presidential election of '80 in this country, that kind of new awareness and self-validation that came about with Reagan's election?

**Bashar:** You will find that your idea in a sense but not as you think it. 

Your idea of what you turn to be, your government, has been created by you much in the same way that we spoke of that individual creating the consciousness that told him to go and do these things because you have not accepted your own responsibility for your own field.

So you create the idea of organizations to handle that fear for you. So you will not have to deal with it. 

Realize that once you create an organization based on fear, it will try to keep itself alive as any consciousness will. 

If it is created by fear, what will it have to create to live? Fear. Take back your fear. Be responsible for all of your emotions and you will not need them.


<!-- ## On Hitler

**Questioner:** Was that the role of Hitler for Europe? 

To a degree, although there was much in the way being acted out again in terms of knowing that fear that a certain idea will occur is the same thing as believing that it will. 

And in believing that it will, it will be. -->


### On Responsibility

**Questioner:** What is your definition of responsibility?

**Bashar:** Responsibility is complete freedom of choice.

Knowing that you are totally responsible for every idea within your reality means you can choose any idea you wish. 

On your world, many people view the idea of responsibility as blame, as a trap, as a prison. Realize responsibility is the key at the same time to that prison. 

You may unlock any door you wish by being totally responsible for everything within that prison. You may open the door and find out that you are also totally responsible for everything outside the prison as well.


## On Equality of Awareness

**Questioner:** I have interest in levels of awareness. We've talked about you being like 300 years ahead and so on. 

What I've noticed is we tend to look at each other as having different levels of awareness, and we get in trouble sometimes with that.

**Bashar:** Each and every one of you has chosen once again a certain path for yourselves. 

But each and every one of you performs, creates, realizes that path equally with every other path, no matter what that path consists of, the energy is the same, the creative force is the same. And so each awareness in a sense in an overall idea is the same even though views within each path may not be. As I said you are always in control. 

Even when you create a situation in which you feel out of control does not mean you are less aware than the one who knows they are in control. Simply means you are creating different realities with the same amount of control. You are all equal. All, all, all equal.


### On the 1980 Shift

**Questioner:** In 1980, what was circumvented? There was something in 1980 that the mass consciousness circumvented so you didn't have to interfere.

**Bashar:** In other words, you no longer felt the need to express the idea of nuclear war.

**Questioner:** Was there an actual event that we would know that was marked in time?

**Bashar:** No. It was a mass decision. You will now see events physically which will represent that decision.

**Questioner:** I just wanted to make a comment that as a young child I felt very much like all the world was a stage and I was just another player and the scenery was just changing and every once in a while the players changed and that just kind of reaffirms that viewpoint. I had that so vividly as a child all the time.

**Bashar:** You may also realize that there is only one constant in the universe. Change. I understand. Thank you.



### On Defining the Universe

**Questioner:** How do you define universe when you say that for us?

**Bashar:** Again I use your terminology. Multiverse is more apropos for our recognition of all that is. There are many, many universes within all that is. The term all that is is more in a sense according to our perception of ourselves.



### On Living Light

**Questioner:** You defined for your civilization as living light, and you also said that about our that is our term for ourselves. Did you translate out as living light?

**Bashar:** We simply view every being, every consciousness within the physical universe as a congealing of vibrational energy, electromagnetic per se in nature. 

In other words, living light. You are energy beings. Matter is energy. You know this. Light you will come to understand in your civilization will have a great many abilities which you will be able to make use of. 

Light is the motive power and the only source of power for our spacecraft.



### On Radionics, Frequency, and Ringing in the Ears

**Questioner:** Are you familiar with radionics on this planet?

**Bashar:** The more you understand the idea of tonality and vibrational frequency, the more you will understand that light and sound will be combined in almost every field, including medicine, including construction, including space travel. 

Everything can utilize in some way, shape or form the idea of vibration in light and sound.

**Questioner:** What is this frequency that most people hear ringing in their ears?

**Bashar:** A high frequency sound. 

Certain energy vibrations will have physical translation within what you turn to be your nerve network within certain portions of your physical brain. 

These will simply resound through certain portions of your auditory system. You are in a sense shifting gears electrochemically, electromagnetically within your physical shell. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** Well, does it go on constantly? There's a high frequency sound that goes on constantly.

**Bashar:** In a sense, you may view the idea also as to a degree background radiation, though not radiation as you think of it. 

You may view that there is in a sense a suspension note which maintains the overall background mass reality. 

It will be in a sense a very, very, very slight tuning in to that idea. 


### Beyond the Physical Universe

**Questioner:** We've been talking pretty much in terms of frequencies and vibrations and wavelengths, and that's like an expression of a physical dimension in one form or another. 

My hidden standard thinks in terms of beyond that, beyond the physical universe. What about it? It sounds like there's a denial of that of some sorts.



**Bashar:** Simply every idea is simply a combination in physical terms of overlapping energy patterns which are a direct impingement of the view of consciousness being expressed by all that is or a portion thereof. 

What you term to be physical reality is again simply one reality. There are many types of physical reality. 

There are many types of non-physical reality within all that is. All that is is simply all that is. Anything you can imagine in a sense exists somewhere within all that is.


### On L. Ron Hubbard

**Questioner:** Is L. Ron Hubbard living, aware of his in conscious control of his own activities and is he still actively running the Church of Scientology or interested in it?

**Bashar:** He has come to recognize certain aspects of the personality which were not allowed to flow. 

Thus creating in a sense certain dilemmas of responsibility within the overall consciousness identity. 

This served a purpose in its time for this individual. 

He will come to recognize certain ideas which they may attempt to introduce back into that system from a new direction. 

Be aware that this at one in the same time will be an attempt to correct oversights and at the same time will simply be a lesson for the individual. 

That one way of expression maybe one individual's chosen way but that within any idea there are many, many, many valid ways of expressing the overall path.
