---
heading: Part 3
title: "Introducing The Association of Worlds"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1985-03-23
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 23
tags: ['astral travel']
---


### On Food, Money, and Letting Go of Fear

**Questioner:** I stopped eating dairy products all of a sudden one day. 

My body just felt really full and didn't want to have them anymore. So I stopped. 

I felt very much lighter, and also I didn't have what I had perceived as hunger before were actually cravings that were very strong. 

For the first few days I almost starved myself because I didn't even recognize the signals of hunger. I was used to having this huge craving, and instead I just had this mild sensation in the body that I needed to put a little in it. 

That was great for a few weeks. Now, I don't think it's necessarily related, but lately I'm really, really hungry and I want to expand on that. And I want to tell you something connected to that, and that is with regard to money. Lately I've been getting more and more into the realm that I like, which is to be just totally in the present regarding money instead of stashing it away for rainy days and all that. Just know that you have whatever you need whenever you need it. And if you didn't have it, then you didn't need it. 

If somebody says, "Here, put a thousand on this," and I don't have a thousand, well, then that wasn't what you wanted for it anyway because you haven't. Okay, I love doing that. But what I find is I have a little bit I can't quite take it, or I haven't... I have some nervousness on taking it all the way to the limit. What limit? Well, let me just tell you, all the way to the zero thing. And the only resistance I have on doing that is I'll let it go down. I'll just spend my last dollar on a toy for my kid or something and I just totally have fun with my money. And I love it. I just love the freedom that I have to just spend it. Anytime I have it, I spend it, and it's great and more comes in. But the consideration that I have on just totally letting loose, I have a little bit of holding back, is because of this huge hunger. And I hate to even be like one day if I ran out of money and I'm waiting till the next day, and I didn't have enough of the exact right things that I was craving in my fridge, I'd get all upset about it.

**Bashar:** Again understand that to some degree there is a similar idea of the fear of changing the reality, but not quite the big deal. Also understand it is not in your terms the money which is necessary. Simply it is the effect of being able to create whatever you wish. Now realize many times you are not needing money to do so.

**Questioner:** That's already real to me. Very real. Very good. I guess food is the last remaining area.

**Bashar:** Oh, whoa, don't take away my food. So, I don't have much confidence in creating good food. I know I can always have food, but I mean, I always have food in the house, but not what I really want to eat, you know? That's my last area.

**Bashar:** Not great confidence. Then allow me to simply say you may enjoy yourself. Yeah. Thank you.

---

### On Buzzing in the Ears and Astral Travel

**Questioner:** Back to what Pam was saying about the silence. Even though there's a lot of sound, as a matter of fact, the sound like I have my television going and my cats playing or the neighbors have the music up loud and I'll be reading or something. The silence... there's still... I did not mean that type of noise. No, no, I understand that. But what I'm trying to say is that underneath all that there's this other silence, and I've been noticing that, but I've been getting this buzzing in my ear.

**Bashar:** Very good. It's been for days now I've had that buzz that just all of a sudden... How have your dreams been?

**Questioner:** Weird. Off and on. Just about people I don't know. Things I've never done.

**Bashar:** Very, very good. It is. Now understand that you may choose to think that it is not. That will be all right too. But simply allow me to say that what you are experiencing is a higher degree of what you could call astral travel. And as such, you are finding that you're unable to translate the reality of the experience in any way, shape or form physically that you would call normal, because you always create those symbols by which your conscious outer aware ego consciousness can remember the experience, but it does not have the symbols to relate to a direct astral experience. You follow me? All right. Understand also that the buzzing in your terms is simply the changing of your vibratory level. You will find if you wish to, even within the literature of individuals who are a little bit more familiar with that ability, they will describe that buzzing quite often.

**Questioner:** Would that also apply to itchy, red eyes and thin spots?

**Bashar:** Slightly different, but can... I will say at that point congeal into a couple of different ideas because I get that a lot when I go through any sort of period of awakening. My eyes are very irritated and I seem to be blurry.

**Bashar:** Understand that again there will be different physical manifestations which will represent the idea of the shifting of your own ability to sense different realities, and it will manifest from time to time in different physical ways that will also be relatively in your terms normal.

---

### On Perceiving Bashar's Form

**Questioner:** I've been talking to you otherwise because I think of you constantly, and I know what you look like because I can draw you and paint you if I want. I was wondering, do you get that? I've actually been on your planet.

**Bashar:** Now, understand that a portion of every consciousness that you allow yourself to perceive, whether within your imagination reality or dream reality or your physical reality, is always on some level in touch with the idea that you are in touch with it.

**Questioner:** Do you get that from me?

**Bashar:** To a degree, but understand that we also recognize a certain overall concept of which you are only now allowing yourself to become familiar with a part of. In other words, our view of you in your terms is a little more expanded than your own view of yourself at this point.

**Questioner:** It's growing.

**Bashar:** Did not mean that was bad. I understand. Understand therefore that when you in that way make that connection within our reality, we perceive you quite differently than you perceive yourself within our reality.

---

### On Time, Sleep, and Creativity

**Questioner:** One week you were talking about time and you said that you only sleep about, you know, when you feel like it, maybe two or three hours. And I had this concept the other day that the reason why you probably get so much done and creativity is done is because you don't spend like eight or nine hours in bed. There's no time. If you get tired you just go to sleep and you get up and you start doing what you want to do again, and you go on and on. It's not like Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or from month to month or from year to year. It's that constant create.

**Bashar:** Very good. Understand? Many individuals upon your planet may also experience this idea. They will find that they may be a little disoriented at first. They may feel that something is going wrong, forgetting what time it is, what day it is. It will not matter. They will understand. They will be able to create a flow which will mesh with all the reality that they really wish to experience. That which it does not mesh with, they are changing from.

**Questioner:** Yeah. I forget days if it's Tuesday or Wednesday or something, or if it's 5:00 in the afternoon or some time.

**Bashar:** Pardon me. This will be all right. Because you will come to realize it does not matter to you what day you do something on as long as you are doing it right.

**Questioner:** Thank you very much. I can't remember what year it is.

---

### On Signs of Shifting Realities

**Questioner:** Could you give some other examples of signs that you've been "gone with the wind," like you were talking about with these other people: ringing in the ears, blurry eyes, and things? I was just curious. It would sort of be like a signpost that I've gone through different realities.

**Bashar:** Do you understand that your own changes are your own signpost? Yes. I was looking for a little better reflection. A better reflection. What could be better than exactly creating for yourself at any particular moment exactly the best reflection that you can be? There is no need to assume there will be a better one. I was just going to ride the flow, you know, like you told that other girl that the ears meant something. I wanted to know what...

**Bashar:** Understand that that situation is a product of her own belief structure for her reality, not necessarily for yours.

**Questioner:** What about my pains in the head? How's that? Do you wish to hang on to them? Actually, they're not here so much. Thank you.

---

### On Neck and Shoulder Pain

**Questioner:** I've been experiencing for some time a great discomfort in my neck and shoulder area. It's obviously there for a reason and I haven't spotted it yet. I thought maybe you could help me pinpoint it.

**Bashar:** Understand that when you allow yourself, as we have been speaking, to receive physical manifestations of different forms and levels of energy, your awareness expands yourself to the idea that you are opening up various centers within your physical form for the reception of that energy. You will find that that portion of what you turn to be the chakra system within your body will open up in connection to the idea of allowing yourself to channel any other idea of higher consciousness, whether it be yourself in that way or whether it be as you understand it a separation of consciousness. You will experience a stiffening, many times quite sharp pain, within the base of the neck between the shoulder blades. It will dissipate.

**Questioner:** Is there anything that I can do to make it go a little faster? Because it does feel very uncomfortable. It makes me feel like I'm millions and millions of miles away, and it's sometimes difficult for me to be here and do the things I need to do here.

**Bashar:** Now again, you have chosen to pass through this transition at this time. I will simply say allow yourself to close your eyes. Allow yourself to view your entire physical form in an energy version. Do you follow me? Allow yourself to see yourself as sparkling, shimmering energy. Allow yourself to understand that there are also avenues, pathways of energy which you may perceive connecting from your physical form outward in every direction and inward from every direction to you. And as they cross, as they overlap, as they interweave in this way, they form the matrix that you perceive to be your immediate physical body. You follow me? Therefore, understand that you can see these nodal points as the crossing and the warping, in a sense, of the weave of the fabric of the vibrational energy that forms what you know yourself to be, and in that sense you can see the pulsing, the rate of the vibration. Now understand that you may simply, in your understanding, mentally pluck those cords which you sense to be vibrating out of sync with the rest of your vibration in this way. But allow yourself to understand that the rest of you may simply step up the vibration to match that level. And in so doing, you will then afford yourself the opportunity to simply emerge into a different understanding, a different level of vibration which is in accord with the vibration you are now receiving. And in that way, it will all seem normal to you. Then follow me. Allow yourself then to be surrounded also by a field of very blue, very energetic energy. But understand it is very spiritual, very calming in nature. And that every single one of your fibers of energy, in a sense, is sheathed with this blue energy that represents the idea of the focus, the idea of projecting your focus of consciousness into this physical dimensionality, into the new physical dimensionality that you are creating for yourself, with a buffer, a protection, a sheath, a lubrication so that all these strings of energy that form what you know yourself to be may vibrate in harmony with one another without creating friction between one another, being sheathed, cushioned by this blue energy between each and every fiber. Do you follow me? Yes. Then allow yourself simply to feel the overall coolness of this idea, the overall energy of this idea, the cool fire as you express that idea: very high in energy, but at the same time very peaceful in its own way. Then you may simply allow yourself to know that this method, or any other method within your imagination by which you can allow yourself to perceive that which you really know yourself to be, that which you really feel yourself to be, will be the exact tool that you need at any particular time for the understanding and therefore the increasing of your overall momentum towards any specific reality that you wish to form. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. Thank you. How much bigger? Very good. A lot bigger, and the potential feels like it's increased about about 10,000 units more. Oh, great. Thank you.

---

### On a First-Timer's Question

**Questioner:** I wanted to say hello. I'm here for the first time. It's kind of neat to come into something like this after not knowing about any of this for many, many years. I was talking to David a little bit. I have not ever really been exposed to any other type of religion or anything like that. Not physically.

**Bashar:** In your dream state, you have explored many ideas. Okay. I'm very interested in expanding my knowledge of what everyone in this room is or has had some experience with. What would your suggestions be? Until about 6 months ago, I had never really heard of Scientology, and now I'm getting bits and pieces of it, and it really is interesting. What I'd like to find out is do you feel that I need to start at the basics to expand my horizons and to work up gradually, or can I jump in from where I am now, speaking to somebody that most people out there would not really... thank you. One moment. Understand first of all the effect of your exploration within your dream reality has produced within you the idea within your imagination that you can right here and right now see yourself jumping in wherever you wish to. You follow me? Yes sir. You already know that you are quite comfortable with that idea, and really I will say that question was quite redundant in that way. You follow me? I understand. Therefore, understand in that way that the only idea really, and all the variations of all the questions of all the discussions, will always be variations of only one idea: that you will allow yourself to realize in terms of your expansion of your own awareness of yourself within, as you say, this gathering at this time. And that will simply be that your own imagination is real. Your dream reality is real. Your physical reality is real. They are all different aspects of the same reality. And in that way, simply understand that you are creating exactly the appropriate reality from every point of view that you know yourself to exist, in exactly the way that you need to create it for your own unfoldment, for the purpose that you have created yourself to be here in your physical reality at this time. And in understanding yourself from that view, you may simply understand that your timing in understanding yourself is perfect.


### On Manifesting a Goal Quickly

**Questioner:** I want to be in a certain place at a certain time, professionally. What you're saying is that if I perceive myself to be there, I will be there immediately?

**Bashar:** You will be there in the least amount of time possible with regard to the effects that you actually believe you are creating. 

Many times an individual will assume that they can be in that situation within, for example, 3 months, not realizing that if they simply allow themselves to understand themselves as that situation already, they may have arrived there within 3 days, thinking originally that the 3 months was a short period of time. 

What will unfold as you have chosen to exist within physical reality will be the best situation for all concerned in terms of all the integration of the personality of your own consciousness and your interaction with all of the integration of consciousness within the mass consciousness for your own unfoldment of the reality which expresses the best possible universe of yourself, which will become the ideal understanding for the mass consciousness to integrate within itself in its understanding of itself as one identity. 

But also understand that if you simply allow yourself to be that idea, to vibrate, to be equal to that idea, to know that you are the idea, you are the event, then you will always allow that idea to manifest itself with all the ingredients that it automatically comes with, and therefore you will not be also imposing limitations upon it, closing doors to which it may have come by simply assuming that it must occur only in this one way. You follow me?

**Questioner:** I assumed that it must occur in just one way. Can it occur in different ways?

**Bashar:** Yes. And that if it only occurs in one way, it's because I'm allowing it to occur only in one way. 

if you allow any situation to occur, it will always occur in the best possible way. But if you assume that it must occur in a specific understanding of one way, you will be focusing your energy only upon that path and you may be closing doors to which it may have come more easily.

Your imagination can be the key.

you may attempt to achieve the idea by saying, "All right, well within such and such a time I need so much money so that I can do this and that," 

then you will concentrate on the idea of acquiring this much money in such and such a time, and you will perhaps miss the opportunity of a person who walked right by you who would have offered you the entire idea for free. 

Simply understand that you are all that is. What you need to do simply is vibrate to the level of excitement that you are willing to vibrate to. Understand that your excitement in that way represents exactly your willingness to be in tune with any particular idea. And if you are excited about an idea, you are in tune with it.

It can manifest very simply if you simply allow it to manifest. 

Every idea in your terms vies for equal reality. That is why you don't have to make anything happen. 

You have but to allow it to occur automatically by simply focusing upon the effect that it will create as if it exists.

**Bashar:** You will be attracting situations like a magnet. No matter what situation it is, no matter what, whatever you vibrate at, including the idea of fear, will attract the reality appropriate to manifest the support for that fear or that belief.


