---
title: "Buffer Zone"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1985-07-03
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 44
---


Simple physics. You are a vibratory pattern of energy.

Therefore, everything in your reality is the same. Right? 

When you vibrate to an idea, your reality must synchronize and become that vibration. I don't have to think about the concept of vibrating. I just have to think of the idea. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. It's like one runs into trouble when they have an opinion of judgment. One runs into trouble when they have the idea that they run into trouble. You follow me?

Yes, that is a judgment and a separation. Intellectually, I follow you, but I'm not quite feeling what you're saying.

All right. But understand that you do understand exactly how you need to understand at this time, and then you will instantly feel that you have got it. You follow me? Yes. Well, I mean it's so simple. Oh yes. Yes. Very simple. Understand that we recognize that in your civilization, something which seems too simple can't possibly be real. Many individuals when they find things moving along just fantastically are worried that nothing is wrong. This is too easy.

The nature of this particular planet or what? It is now because you can interact with us. It is no longer; otherwise we would not be here because we would not be in accord to the vibration. You would not be in accord to our vibration, which knows that you are losing your use for that tool. It was valid at its time, but you are now the ending of that cycle. You are losing the need for separation, struggling, and striving. You are now recreating the idea of yourself as a totally integrated idea which simply recognizes itself as all that it needs to be to achieve whatever purpose it is now unfolding.

What is the ultimate purpose of the thing that above? There is no ultimate purpose. Understand that all that is needs no purpose to continue being all that is, since all that is always has been. Life needs no purpose other than the idea that you may create more life to live. It is all that because all that is can experience itself from all these different viewpoints that it does. Just because it can, why not? You follow me?

Yeah, please. Thank you. Okay, sure. Yes. This is a question about dealing with something. I think I have an idea already how to do it, but I recently had a very big confrontation with somebody who basically said to me, quote unquote, "I don't understand emotions. I'm not emotional. Don't talk to me with any emotions. If you have something to say, be specific. As a matter of fact, the Bible says that emotions should not be listened to. We're not emotional people. I'm a person of action."

Do you mean that when in your scripture you call the Bible, in that portion you call New Testament, when the being you call Jesus said, "My joy I leave with you," that was not the expression of emotion? I asked him about that too, and basically the answer he said to me was that that is action, that's not emotion, that's taking something and putting it into a positive motion. It's nothing to do with feeling. And I did question him on that and I was all right.

Understand simply that when you do allow yourself total knowingness, then it may be that you no longer need the tool of what you call emotion. But realize that there will always, always be the energy that you call compassion. Do you follow me? No. What you call compassion is the total granting of beingness to all other paths and viewpoints of expression within all that is. Now as you allow yourself to totally know yourself — because knowing comes before believing, which comes before feeling — you may not ever reach the level where you need in that way to express emotionality in the sense that you mean it, but you will always be within compassion.

So then would you say that that particular idea that the Bible represents is more geared towards that idea? Not that we're not emotional beings, not that we should listen to what each other's feelings are about any particular idea.

In a sense, understand that many times the allowance of communication through emotionality will allow you more direct experience of that which you do know yourself to be. Since in your terminology, feeling is one step closer than thinking to the center of yourself. Now any individual in that way who wishes to create that for themselves, that is their path. But understand that for them in that way to deny you the expression of your own unique emotionality as you have chosen to create it will only be the denial of their own willingness to truly know. Because they are denying a portion of themselves. If they feel they do not contain emotionality, they are then in that way rejecting the entire portion of themselves which exists within that universe. Understand simply that this may be done knowing that you need not necessarily experience what you term to be in your cognizance emotionality. But when you allow yourself in that way to grant beingness to everyone, you will still in that way allow there to be emotionality in any communication because you recognize it as a valid method of communication. You're not judging. Very good. To deny that the individual will not understand you if you are emotional is to deny that they can simply know what you mean. Regardless of how you say it, they are then not trusting their own ability to truly know. Realize that if they truly allow themselves to know that they know, it will not matter what form any communication takes toward them, they will understand it. To enforce you to be so specific in that way means that they themselves lack a link of communication within themselves that they are not willing to experience at this time. Grant them the validity of experiencing that idea, for that is their path. It is unique but not special, for all paths are unique.

Isn't by nature, though, as human aren't we... understand what you mean by nature. For you as the automatic creator, nature is whatever you define it as. And you create whatever symbols you feel represent the naturalness that you are willing to express at any particular time. It is natural for you to contain every expression possible. Therefore, it is always natural for you to express anything in any way. Therefore, in that way, yes, it is natural. But understand that because you are a creator with free will, it is also natural to deny any portion of yourself in the overall sense. It is simply in that way not in the best interest of integration. However, it is still natural to create separation as well. If that is what they wish, be that. Follow me?

Yes. Thank you. I wanted to express how much I appreciate and love being here, and then realize you have thanked yourself, for you have brought yourself. Thank you. I know I at times have this tremendous love for all people, all things. At times this is what I'm feeling more and more, becoming more all the time. All right. But at times I do have the tremendous withdrawal of putting this shell back around me.

But it is only your vernacular which creates the confusion. 

There is no past, there is no future, there is only one eternal now. 

Anytime you feel that love, then at that moment it is all the time.

Then you may play with words as much as you wish, but understand that when you feel it, you feel it all the time, because in that moment that is all the time there is. Only saying "all that time" and I'm there.

Just to say that when she doesn't feel it, she doesn't ever feel it. Right? That's interesting. In other words, in that moment, that is her entire universe feeling something else. Because you create time. 

Therefore, all time becomes permeated with that immediate feeling of yourself. That is why you do create the past and the future from your present. 

The tonality of what you call your past lives and your future lives is determined by what your present understanding of yourself is. It represents itself as those portions of the past and future lives you are willing to focus upon. 

In other words, if you feel pretty rotten about yourself in the present, you will focus on all the rotten portions of your past life and blame your present situation upon them.


In the discussion of time and timing, earlier you said that in my case the timing was perfect that I am perceiving or not perceiving or thinking I'm not perceiving beings or whatever. Timing is always perfect in every case. You cannot be off track. Right? I believe that. I understand that. I guess my question is that I ask you something along the lines of: then I have already determined a timing for myself, and the first question is, does that mean that I am at the effect of a decision that I can't remember making? In a sense, how can I become not the effect of it? How can I, by recognizing that the timing can be now? Okay, now if I say okay, well it's now for some reason, not if you say now. If you know it is now, how can I know? Right.


Every time you ask "how," you are separating yourself from the now. Understand? Right, because you believe that you must ask "how" because it is not here now. 

Would you like that?

Then at that moment right then of understanding, and right now if you wish, you are completely there. Yes. This is the way it feels right now. Oh, I see. When you said "I understand," what makes you think you do not still understand? And again and again and again understand, and continue to understand, and know that you understand.

Well, I believe that I intellectually understand.

That is your belief, but I'm not certain that I'm perceiving her.

Why not? Because I'm not so aware of it. That is an expectation. You're assuming it will feel such and such a way. When you allow yourself to know that you do experience it, then you will begin to feel it.

What's required in allowing myself to do that? Recognizing that cause and effect are the same event. Okay. Many individuals feel that before they can be happy, they need a reason to be happy. If you allow yourself to simply know that you are happy, why not? Then nature, you as the automatic creator which does not allow there to be a vacuum in creation, will supply you with all the reasons and causes necessary to support the happiness you have created as an effect. You cannot have an effect without a cause. Therefore, if you create the effect by knowing you are happy, the cause will be there. In other words, your life will become that ecstatic explosion of coincidence, bringing to you every situation necessary to support the happiness you have created within that life, because it cannot leave you hanging with happiness and no reason for it. 


The same with any idea. If you know you are abundant, you will be abundant because you cannot be left hanging with the knowledge that you are abundant and nothing to support it in the physical reality.

Why is it that we even have problems with this? Then we have apparent problems. You create the idea of problem, which is only a situation we will not allow to change shape. It is again a remnant habit from a tool which has served you. You are now developing a new habit, a new way of looking at more of yourself. It will change. I see. So, it's really just a matter of overcoming habit. Yes. Okay. 

First of all, recognizing that you even have one. Yes. Recognize that because you can question the idea that you may have a habit is in and of itself at that point the moment of complete transformation. Because when you are totally living in one reality, you will not question that there may be another one that might be possible. The moment you question the idea that you might be able to make a transformation from one idea to another, in that moment of the question, you have made the transformation because you have recognized another idea. And by being able to recognize another idea, you must have of course then become the vibration to be equal to recognize to perceive that idea. And by becoming the vibration in the instant of recognition, you were the idea. Therefore, you were the reality in that moment. But then comes the habit of believing that at that moment it is not real and it is something that must be attained. Mhm. Yeah. If you allow yourself to simply recognize that in the moment of revelation that represents a total reality, you will continue to experience the reality of that revelation. You will not need to grab for it nor hang on to it. It will simply continue in that way. So, we're just trying to break bad habits here.

Trying? We're not doing it. You are changing your idea of yourself. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you.

What is an earth server? Simply again the idea that there are beings in a sense who identify more closely with the earth plain vibration and have had many, many lives in that way here on the earth plain, do not so much identify specifically with other civilizations. In other words, do not feel directly so much they are here newly born but have been here for a while, or identify with the purpose of other consciousness coming to your planet at this time. By being here already, in a sense being very familiar with the earth vibrations, they may then assist in a smooth transition of the other earth vibrations which are going through the transformation. And in recognizing the transformation to be occurring by being willing to be of service in aiding that transformation, they are then earth servers. They are helping the earth, assisting it through its transformation.

Oh, will that have explained the idea? Oh, yes. Are you sure? Um, I understand part of it. All right. Do you feel you need at this time to understand anything more? So an earth server would be somebody that's been here before. Can be. Yes. Most often in a sense, you may look at it that way. Yes, that they identify most strongly with the earth vibration. It is at this time in your terminology, let us say in all the possible lives they may have had in other civilizations, simply at this time the most overriding vibration. It is how they view themselves more connected to earth than any other civilization. I understand. Thank you.

When I've been feeling a lot of energy rise in my body, my eyes get real tight, and I'm just wondering what that is, 'cause the energy's rising up. Have you noticed then physically with the physical channel before you that this experience also occurs prior to the connection of our energy? Then simply understand it is the physical symbol of in a sense attempting to contain the rush of energy, of feeling in a sense pushed headlong at high speed through many levels of the self. Am I stopping something that's going to happen? Not really. It is something in a sense you will get used to. I mean it feels good. It just feels like it wants to burst out. Yes. It will ease, as it is easing for the physical medium as well. Thank you.

The question I want to ask you is: are you familiar with numerology to some degree as a tool? Yes. Is it just a tool or is there any validity to it? Now understand that you have contradicted yourself. Any tool that is created always has validity according to why the tool was created. When you say "just a tool," you are then for yourself removing the validity. But those individuals who feel the connection to the idea they have created feel it is valid for their own path. It is always subjective. You follow me? It's the same thing with astrology. Anything, any physical symbol, is as valid as you wish it to be for the time you have created it.

Well, even like a chair is a tool, right? If I didn't believe in it, we just fall on the ground. That is an idea. Yes. Yes. Physical objects are also symbols. Understand? If you will, I'll say in a pragmatic idea, you may simply view in that way that you are simply by sitting in a chair sending the transmission idea to another being that you are in a state of repose, of acceptance, of rest. It manifests into physical symbology in that way in your civilization. In other civilizations, it may be that they begin to float, or that they begin to defocus their physical form, or that they pick up another object. "While I am carrying this red rock, I am willing to listen. When I carry the blue one, I am wishing to be by myself." There are many different ways to interpret the same idea. Each will be a valid tool for those that are creating it to experience themselves in that way. When they no longer need the tool, they will create another one.

Is that like when we close our eyes to sleep, we're telling people we don't want to be disturbed in a sense? Yes.

There will be a few more of your minutes in your terms of time left.

Yeah, I wanted to talk to you about my Sedona trip. I was very glad to hear you talk about this buffer thing because I know I've been grumbling and complaining a lot about the slowness and how bored I was. 

And so I guess I gave myself an opportunity of these five days of the Sedona trip to not have a buffer zone. And I mean, you know, it was obviously summer. I would have just been torn apart, but to have very little buffer zone. And I experienced many, many realities, many different time frames simultaneously, many different dimensions, many different trips at the same time. Gosh. And all totally unexpected from what I had been consciously expecting. So the whole trip was quite agonizing as I experienced it until I could get home. It's taken all this time, you know, to start to integrate into what occurred. Yes.

Then you may also understand it was an opportunity in that way to experience the idea of expectation and what results from that. No indeed, a real drag.

Well anyway, does not have to be. Do not judge your judgment. Oh, I know it was then. All right. Thank you. Also the speed. But I think the speed was more actually associated with my son because it's more the speed that he could easily and naturally go. He wouldn't need that's about how much buffer he needs, which is enough to just tear me apart, you know. He had a fine time. Anyway, one interesting thing, a couple interesting things. One was when I was out in the desert, just above Winslow, Arizona, going north from Holbrook towards the Hopi reservation, and there was a bunch of buttes in the area, and I suddenly realized that I was in the future, or the significance of what I was doing right then was actually of future significance. And I saw a landing on one of the buttes, and I just felt great joy with that particular thing, and I felt that it was about nine or ten years and that it was a very widely known. Yes. Okay. Is there anything else you'd like to say about that? 1992. Oh, okay. Great.

The other thing that I wanted to say was on the way home, between about Needles and Barstow, California, out in the desert again. I was sleeping in my car because it was overheating, and I felt a very strong presence. I don't know what to call it — a very strong UFO presence is the only way I could describe it, of a number of presences perhaps. Some I wouldn't say negative or positive necessarily. I just know that I did not want to see them, and I didn't. I actually put a barrier around me.

All right. But recognize that when you allow yourself to fall asleep next to a freeway, you have to expect to hear a rush of traffic from time to time.

You mean if you go out and sleep in a desert alone, you got to expect that sort of? I know in that area. Right? I knew what I was doing. But I wanted to say something: I did experience — which I didn't know at the time but I only realized several days later — something got activated in my body that had been latent, and it made me basically impervious to a lot of physical things. I used to be very sensitive to chemicals and a lot of things that are in Los Angeles, you know, smog and this and that and plastic and blah blah blah.

You mean allergies? No, not really. Just kind of weak.

Yes. Maybe very strong. Are you paying attention? I think that I'm going to have some more time in LA, but it's perfectly fine with me because those sorts of things won't affect my body anymore. It's just very, very strong because what you now consider to be your body vibrates in a different reality from those ideas. 

So anyway, it was a real neat trip, and I realized the main thing that I've heard, one way of looking at it, is that an invitation has gone out. When I do go to Sedona to live — temporarily or permanently, whatever, that's not exactly permanent — it's going to be the beginning of a very already excitement happening, but there's going to be a lot of very exciting things going on there. 

But I was invited, yet I was also invited to come back here to partake of what's going on here for a little bit longer. And now that I understand it, I could have just simply gone there when I went and come back when I came back. But because I didn't understand it, I fought it a lot of the way. So I wanted to stay. Anyway, I guess that's about it for the moment.

Well, thank you for the sharing of your gifts at this time. Understand we have already in that way made the engagement of our field. And in that way we must say good night.

As then briefly you were understanding in that way as was expressed to you there, there was the engagement of the field round and about the ship, and so the leaving was taken. 


