---
heading: Part 5 of Introducing The Association of Worlds
title: "Sirius"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1984-06-25
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 24
tags: ['sirius']
---



### On a Mysterious Word and an Entity Trying to Enter

**Questioner:** Some time ago undergoing some psychological processing, a word came up and I wasn't sure if it was the name of a planet: "gadic."

**Questioner:** The other thing was a couple of weeks ago I experienced a very unusual phenomenon where I became extremely emotional, and I felt that another being was trying to enter my body, and my body was experiencing certain pains. I went to a friend of mine who's quite knowledgeable and explained this, and she said that a being is merely trying to get through to communicate with you, and that another being cannot enter your body unless you give your permission.

Knowing this, I went home. I explained a few things that had happened in the past that suddenly made this very real because not knowing that much about it, I was afraid. But I did go home anxious for something of this sort to occur again, but I want to make sure that this time I can be completely open to it.

**Bashar:** You will be exactly what you need to be again. 

This is an opportunity for you to view portions of your own consciousness that you are now beginning to deal with, and you must integrate them first. Therefore, every experience will be exactly the experience that you need.

What is going to be your anxiety in that way will simply allow you to understand that you are perceiving the vibration of that energy. 

There is in your terms a difference between the vibration of your own idea and the vibration of that idea.

When your vibration comes in contact with that other vibration, there will be that point or that line upon which they interface that will create that idea of friction or anxiety. 

You are simply learning to mesh your vibration with the vibration of that being.

**Bashar:** It means "begin."

**Questioner:** I thought it was the name of another planet. It sources from Arcturus.

**Bashar:** I also got that I was supposed to mention to you that there are beings there on that planet who want to come through. 

You have said perfectly everything that you need to say. Understand also that you have perfectly experienced another idea, another analogy of the communication of information to you from another portion of your own consciousness. 



### On the Triad with Sirius

**Questioner:** Why are we now talking about Sirius so much? Are there other planets that are trying to do the same thing?

**Bashar:** There are many civilizations who are aware of your transformation at this time, who are allowed by your recognition of your own transformation to be in communication with you. Understand that very specifically. 

However, in that way, there are many different types of relationships between yourselves and those other civilizations. 

Earth, us Sassani, and Sirius will be a triad formation, a triad counterpart consciousness: different variations of the idea of a particular view or idea of consciousness which are now becoming in contact with each other in that way so that you may open up for yourselves more understanding of your involvement of all that you are.

**Questioner:** So no matter what civilization is trying to come into contact, it always has to come into contact utilizing a triad.

**Bashar:** Not really. That will be one idea expressed within the one version of the idea of consciousness represented by that particular idea. 

There will be other connections that will form. I will say specifically there is another level of vibrational connection with a civilization you would call the Pleiades.

**Questioner:** Is there another triad between the Dao universe and Sirius?

**Bashar:** Only in an off-kilter sense. How many... I guess you'd call it communication. Are you in communication with anybody else besides the planet Earth? Yes. 

Understand first of all that within the idea of our relationship to your world, we are in communication. 

That is myself and my counterpart are directly in communication in the same manner that you are perceiving at this moment with two other worlds in the same way. 

Also understand that in terms of our civilization, there is then an association which contains approximately, in your understanding, 375 civilizations. There is also more civilizations in that way of which we are aware, contained within the portions of the five galaxies that we have come into contact with. 


**Questioner:** So in other words, your people are in contact with 375 other civilizations plus us.

Now realize that the contact as you describe it will take on different forms according to the understanding of the awareness of each civilization. 

What we describe to you as the idea of the association will be those civilizations who are aware of that idea in what is going to be a physical sense and interact with it directly.

**Questioner:** Are these other contacts generally as you are, 300 years or 300 of what we consider years in our future? 

No. Are you sort of like next-door neighbors to them? There are many different levels of understanding. Realize that to travel through space in your terms is also to travel through time. There are many civilizations which we interact with which in your understanding of time belong in your past.

**Questioner:** When you say the one that is 300-350 to 750, let's just say the future of Sirius...

**Bashar:** That will be another level of reality altogether.

It will represent a totally different consciousness complex. 

I begin to see it now that you help me with my problem. To have no problem. Well, not now. Let it unfold smoothly. 

Do not be anxious. Understand that to some degree the association with that idea will represent certain ideas within the here and now present mass consciousness which will unfold within again 5 to 7 of your years' time in that way fully manifested, and also again I will say 10 to 15 and then to 30 of your years' time in three different successive ideas or manifestations. You follow me?



### On 375 Civilizations

**Questioner:** When you say 375 civilizations, are you talking about each different planet civilization, or could there be different civilizations on this planet like ours and Russians and South Americans?

**Bashar:** It is 375 different planets, or groupings, or collectives, or associations that consider themselves to be one idea.

**Questioner:** On our planet we have several different races. In your civilization, is there just basically one race at this time?

**Bashar:** There are variations, but in our perception of ourselves, yes, one, as we have long since blended those variations in another way.

**Questioner:** In the same sense, do you think we will eventually on earth become basically one race with one basically same colored skin?

**Bashar:** To a degree. The differences that you have created upon your world will still serve another type of purpose even as you expand within the association.


### On a Mysterious Spaceship Experience

**Questioner:** I couldn't find my purpose in life, and so one night I was lying in bed and I thought, "Oh, what is my purpose?" suddenly I was apparently in a spaceship. I was wide awake. It seemed to be a spaceship. I was with another being. 

And what I did was I reported to this other being what was occurring on Earth planetwide. And it took place outside of time because in a split second of a split second of a split second, it was analogous to simply a nodding of my head. I don't know if I even had any representation of a body. And I'm not even interested in politics or anything that goes on planetwide. And yet this occurred, and then I was right back in bed again.

**Bashar:** Allow me to say first of all that what you perceive to be your outer involvement with what you found to be the idea of your planetary interactions will form for you, up to this point, a surface underneath which you may function in another capacity with regards to your communication with other consciousness. that was not necessarily exactly the idea of expression of purpose per se, but you may simply allow yourself to know that for right now, life can be its own purpose. And understand that your dream reality, your imagination reality, and your physical reality are all part of life. Allow me to simply say for now we will discuss this at a later time.


### On Physical Symptoms and a Suggestion

**Questioner:** I've had a couple of things transpiring. One has been for over a month now, and the other one has just been recent. The body manifestation has gone on long past what I would normally have thought that it should have stopped. 

It's like an indigestion in my head and sinus area and my throat and my chest. At first I thought, well, it's a cold and it'll go away. And it just kept not going away. And then last night I had a little bit of reality on it. Maybe it might have even been a different thing. It had to do with chakras, allowing it to open and flow in and out. And it seems a little bit better now. It isn't gone. And the other thing is for about a week off and on I've had the experience of being so remote from physical things that I normally am in touch with that it's been real difficult for me to function with the physical aspect, even though I'm there and I know I'm doing it, I've just been real far out of touch with it.


**Bashar:** Do you like to take walks? How many do you take? Not very many. Would you please take some more? I'll say once perhaps, twice, maybe not, but once. Allow yourself to take a walk through what you turn to be a hospital. As you walk down the corridors of your hospital, as you view all the different realities being created therein, allow yourself to walk down that corridor with a feeling of complete acceptance and love for all those different manifestations, allowing yourself to be a beacon that they may allow themselves to perceive the energy of your own reality in that way. But not that you are there to force anything upon them, not that you are there within your ego setting a shining example. No, simply allow yourself to spread your wake behind you as you walk. And allow yourself to absorb all those ideas within you as you walk in such a way that you can allow yourself to taste the atmosphere and allow them to taste your atmosphere. You are forming an exchange, not one that will manifest as your physical reality, but one in which you will be allowing them to change their physical reality if they so desire. Allow yourself to take in many of these walks. I will say within the next 3-week period of your time, you will find yourself exploring portions of yourself during this exercise that will be of great benefit to you in this way.

**Questioner:** I just in an imagination reality did it while you were talking.

**Bashar:** You may do it within your imagination reality while you also do it within your physical reality as well. You may dream walk. Not sleepwalk. Dream walk. I don't understand that. Oh, yes you do. You mean like when I'm asleep? No, you may walk around then dreaming. Dream walk. Let it be fun.

---

### On Where Daryl's Consciousness Goes

**Questioner:** Where does Daryl go when you come into his body? Where does his consciousness go?

**Bashar:** Now realize it is not that it really goes anywhere, as there is really nowhere to go. Understand that in your terms it does not even leave the physical form per se. But I'll say in your terms it is phase-shifted 90 degrees into another direction, another focus, another understanding, another perception of self in that way. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** So he's seeing something different while we're talking to you, to a degree.

**Bashar:** Yes.

---

### On the Spaceship She Saw

**Questioner:** Could you tell me what off-planet civilization the spaceship that I saw was?

**Bashar:** No. But do you wish to tell me? I don't know. I can describe it to you. It was round. Very good. Many of them are. And it had a rod coming out of the top with a blinking red light on it, and it had like two stories of window light going around the middle. And it didn't make any noise. And the people seemed quiet, at ease, flying over our planet like this was just a routine thing.

**Bashar:** How did you feel? I was excited. Thought that was great. Good. For now, that will be enough. When in terms of your time frame? That was about five years ago. Six years ago. Oh, very good. I will say simply within the next five to six years again there will perhaps be opportunities for you to be further in touch. Depends upon you.

---

### On Crime and Social Structure

**Questioner:** Does your world have the same type of structure that we have? In other words, are there criminals, lawyers, stuff like that?

**Bashar:** There are many different ideas of endeavor. There is no crime as you understand the idea. So no policing. No. Is there always? Quite often. And people just sort of interrelate with each other. Realize that within our civilization, each individual perceives themselves to be directly married to every other individual. Whether male or female, it doesn't matter.

---

### On Color Healing

**Questioner:** A question about the color red being used as a healing for the body.

**Bashar:** There can be many uses of the vibrations of the various colors with regard to specific application toward the physical form.

**Questioner:** Is it just because of the color? Like red usually is an exciting, vibrating color and green is more...

**Bashar:** It is because of the idea which is manifested in your understanding of physicality as that specific vibration represented symbolically to you as a color.

**Questioner:** So how do you use that?

**Bashar:** Any way you wish. Use your imagination. Now, when I say that, it is not for us a figure of speech. I really mean it. Use your imagination. Make pictures. Imagine yourself using those colors in whatever way you imagine they would be of benefit, and you will be having the effect. You may imagine yourself immersed in any one of those colors. 

Find out how it makes you feel. I will say to a degree there will be variation from individual to individual, but for the most part you will be experimenting with a portion of the mass consciousness that will allow you to know exactly how those colors will also make other individuals feel.

So if I want to use them for healing of a specific organ, you may find yourself simply knowing, but you will be using the color green when you need to. Therefore, I will say if you wish to create the idea that an individual may tap into the idea of excitement, then you may use the color red from time to time. But again, if your imagination and the picture that forms within it finds itself shifting and changing, perhaps even a combination of various colors and vibrations, allow it to flow. And then when you feel it has accomplished the idea, stop. You don't need to force anything.

**Bashar:** Now realize it will always be necessary for any other individual to also choose to share that reality that you have of them. If they don't choose to, it will not be their reality. 

But by forming the impression within your reality, you will be again creating that aspect within your reality that they may choose to lock into if they wish, and share, by providing the opportunity for that idea within your reality to exist. You follow me?

**Bashar:** Steven, this time tomorrow night there will be information regarding the idea of the connection of the experience you are expressing at this channeling with regard to the other channelings taking place upon your planet at this time, and the interrelationship of the identities and the energies connected therein.


## On the Angel with Green Fire

**Questioner:** I was sick, and my mother told me to close my eyes and get the idea that this angel was there and she was going to touch me and make me well.

So when I walked up to her, she didn't seem to have any interest whatsoever in a sick body or making me well. What she did was she touched me and I could see through her eyes that there was like green fire in her head, in her eyes.

When she touched me, it occurred in my head, in my eyes, and it seems to have been there ever since.


**Bashar:** You do not need to couch reality in symbolic form anymore in that way. Understand that you may consolidate the entire experience you have just expressed in one simple statement. Make a simple consolidated statement about the idea rather than describing a story. 

All of these experiences that you are sharing are very deeply felt and appreciated from the sharing.

But understand that you may consolidate these ideas into simple statements rather than telling yourself symbolic stories which represent the idea of having to track through many different ideas in that way, and allow these other individuals to feel that if they are not tracking through similar ideas that they are missing out on something. 

These all occur for you and unfold for you in that way, that you may represent to yourself a certain idea of reality of your own consciousness that you may simply consolidate into a simple statement about the understanding of yourself. Do you follow me? Play with it right now. Whenever you wish.



### On Relocating to California

**Questioner:** Is it going to be important for my further consciousness to relocate out to California, as we don't have anything like this in Colorado?

**Bashar:** You'll lead yourself:
- exactly where you need to be led in that way.
- always to those ideas and manifestations of unfoldment that you'll experience for yourself as you need to.

It will be up to you. I will not run your life for you. You'll also know exactly your own timing will unfold perfectly. You don't need to ask me for my opinions on what to do with your life. I will not ruin your life. This is your life.

**Questioner:** You seem angry. 

Are you asking me to run your life, make decisions for you?

<!-- **Bashar:** I should channel for Steve, right? Colorado. Who are you? Not really. Only in part in that sense that I understand the idea of the association to be the collective idea of all those formulations of ideas and consciousness which participate within that one consciousness which considers itself to be in contact with you at this time. -->

**Questioner:** What will happen regarding tomorrow night's channeling? Is that just a communication for Steve?

**Bashar:** There will be connections made. 

That will be an unfoldment of the understanding of the idea of the channeling of the various channels upon your planet at this time and the connection of the energies and consciousness of the channels through them at this time. 

There will be connective ideas which represent the forward motion and the momentum of their connection relationship to your mass consciousness at this time. Do you follow me? 



## On Direction and Integration

**Bashar:** The essence of that 300 years will be synonymous to the degree that you vibrate at that level.

Understand that you are not directing the idea of your mass consciousness toward what you come to be Orion in that way. Realize again that what you perceive of the ideas and consciousnesses formed within what you come to be Adam and Bashar at this time are not from Orion.

You are integrating that idea within yourself at this time with the understanding of yourself as the connection to yourself with the negative energy connected with the positive energy represented to you by the idea of Orion. 

You are here for the unfoldment of your own purposes at this time, which you will fulfill in your own sense of timing, your own sense of pace, your own sense of reality, your own sense perception of yourself within all the different levels of reality that you choose to experience yourself at this time.

You will unfold by your own choice of being here. You have made the choice of being here. You're here now. That is your reality. That is your belief system.


<!-- ## Closing

**Bashar:** Simply again, we enjoy and love you very much. And in our ability to share this idea of love for you with you, you may then understand that you are creating within your own universe this same self-love for yourself, which allows us to share that idea so that you may perceive it from us. You must then perceive it for yourself first. Understand that you do love yourselves in that way, and the universe you are creating for yourself, the universe you are unfolding for yourself in that way, always will contain that same degree of momentum spurred on by your own love of all that is and the service that you provide by being exactly who you are.

 -->

 