---
heading: Part 2 of Simplicity Itself
title: "Twin Flame, Holographic thinking"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1986-07-23
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 105
tags: ['soul mate', 'disease']
---




## Disease

Asker: If a person has a bacterial disease and the person does not believe in killing, what happens is is that person experiencing some sort of process of having to deal with having to kill in order to get rid of his own bacteria? or perhaps there are as many reasons for diseases as there are people that have them. 

Bashar: Everything is energy and on that level they created that idea.

They can simply transform it into something else without the notion of having killed anything.

So, it's just the perception or the judgment

Yes.

Is it possible that plants could symbolically take on the field in many ways as does some of the animal kingdom? 

Yes. But again, the vegetable so to speak, plant, animal kingdom, mineral kingdom are all reflections and extensions of your consciousness and all very willing to unconditionally love and serve you in whatever way will assist you. 

Thus, they will take upon themselves many times many ideas that will leave you able to function rather than incapacitated. So there are in various there are various times that a plant with no physiological damage or anything going on like that will say start drooping for no apparent reason perhaps it may only be a reflection of your own lackluster energy or a reflection of the inability which is lack of willingness to transform the light into something that you can use to believe that you can derive sustenance simply from the light of your own self-illumination. Oh, right. How do you unhing? every way I go. In everything I do all the time. Is it hard? 

Practice. Sure. It is living. Well, it is the willingness to trust that loving unconditionally is what opens the most of the universe to us because unconditional love then does not place a restriction on any aspect of the universe and allows us to be able to perceive any aspect we desire to. Okay, with me I wish it does not seem you do not believe that unconditional love works. What makes you think? Because of the questions you are asking because that you do not allow yourself to simply immediately understand that unconditional love is to your benefit. If you know that you by expressing unconditional love will then have accessibility to everything in the universe, why wouldn't you want to do it? Okay. Now, just at this point right here, for instance, the fact that you judged me on that is not a judgment. Okay. That's where the difficulty that I perceive or the judgment that I'm having here that I'm I'm thinking okay I asked the question does it mean that should something manifest that this guy isn't unconditional loving I mean because I I feel like I do sometimes it does take some practice I mean and as much as you've said what you've said that to me was your judgment and it was not true of me. Okay. But it sparked some anger within me temporarily. Yes. And what I'm questioning is that anger, that ounce of anger I had, is that unconditional. I mean, is that if you use it as alignment? Yes. Anger is only alignment of what you know to be true for you. So we are giving you an opportunity to unconditionally love your anger and let it serve you.


You create every scenario in your life, positive and negative, in a sense, in a fundamental sense, from the unconditional love of trusting that that scenario have created is what you need. We are not saying you are not unconditionally loving. 

In this way, all we are reflecting to you is simply that the idea that you have that it is something you need to practice is only a part of the type of manifestations you are utilizing your unconditional love for. So this this feeling of love and beauty and the association of joy when you get out of that realm and into say some type of anger or some type some some attitude of uh because of lack of a better term hostility. That does not necessarily mean that the person is unconditionally loving you. In this way, you may be imposing conditions upon it on one level, but the foundational reason for why you are going through the experience you are having at all stems from unconditional love, not necessarily on a conscious level. But that you simply are willing to trust that any experience you give yourself is something that you want to do. The idea is for you to also recognize that you can have physically conscious unconditional love as well. 


Yes. Are you familiar with uria uranchia? Urantia.

No to some degree the various governmental structure that it u speaks of. Are you familiar with any governmental structures on different planes that uh in a sense however allow me to say it is our preference to recognize that the term governmental structure is a terminology from your point of view. In this way, it is what we call the association and it is not something that rules. It is something that serves looking at it from a totally uh different point of view. Yes. Thank you.

The uranche is that accurately an earth parallel association or is that Uranus? No, not Uranus. 

You're on chunk. Yeah, I know. But the planet is it relative to Earth or Uranus? It is relative to the entire system. Uh solar system.


As I manifest in the physical universe specific ideas that I have either experientially or physically that I'll experience an extreme positive and negative aspect of that idea. Thanks. For many years, I've battled that positive and negative aspect trying to just get the positive side of the idea to manifest. 

I kind of stopped doing that now and I'm trying to I the question is is it by viewing the the idea that manifested and knows that you manifested that particular idea as neutral that you can balance and don't have the highs and lows of it. Understand the only reason you have negative effect is by trying to get rid of it. You are always while you are physical going to have positive and negative energy or the same idea. 

Yes, you are by the very definition of the creation of physical reality always going to experience the energy in polarities but not necessarily in polarized effect. As long as you are willing to understand that negative and positive choices are equal choices and one is not better than another. It is only different. Paradoxically, when you allow all choices to be equal is when you have the opportunity to experience only the one you prefer.

What is one's twin flame?

It can be the idea of soulmate. It can be another way to say the idea of a particular type of counterpart. It can be an offshoot soul. There are many ideas that that can be used to express.

**The idea is not to go searching for that idea anywhere other than within yourself.**

Then is when you will create yourself to be the type of individual that radiates being complete in that way, containing both sides of the twin flame and thus attract other individuals that will reflect to you their containment of their own completeness and twin flame identity.



I was daydreaming the other day and I remembered that about 2 years ago I was in the desert and I was really in a state of bliss. I looked up in the sky and I saw what I guess now was a spaceship and it was looking at me and it was kind of intense and so I started to look at it and I was a little frightened but I said well if you want to look at me I want to look at you and it opened a shutter and it started to kind of zoom in on me like a zoom lens and for a while I kind of looked back and that was that And I never really thought about it. 

About a year later, a friend of mine who lives in Palm Springs brought me to see you. Was that an Essonian ship? Define and describe. Well, it was kind of I don't It's a long time ago and it wasn't that important. So, it was metal. I don't really remember the shape. What I really remember was the the shutter opening. The look of this shutter. Do you remember the idea of what you would call a light in the red spectrum or was it more in the blue spectrum? 

The ship looked bluish gray but there was a red light. The metal was bluish gray but there was a feeling of red light like Mars looks red. In your terms, was it more angular than disc? I think it was more angular. One moment. What are your own feelings of connection to what you call the Palm Springs area? I love it there. It's peaceful. It's beautiful. It's a place of serenity for me. What significance for you does it have that you were alerted by a friend that also is related to that area? 

Joy. Why? Well, cuz I think your people are so beautiful. It's nice to connect with you and you. Thank you. One moment. In our perception, what we have here is an unusual composite, an idea to some degree connected to our frequency, but also connected to the idea of a passer. I don't understand one moment. Yes. Spacetime crossover. Let us say an ancient version of the energy that we became as we formed an agreement and a connection with your civilization for the specific interactions that are taking place. Now I do not mean to be mysterious about this but in this way you have given yourself a quite fascinating quasi planar experience. I believe that in this sense it is simply put once again a composite of different energies that represented themselves to you in a way that made symbolic sense. The idea of the craft was more what you call diamond shaped. The idea of the red vibration and identification of the agreement with your physiological reality and your choice of being present and incarnate upon the planet you find yourself to be on now. The blue gray, a reflection of other lives, other systems, other time tracks, and a familiarity with a type of crystalline technology, metallic technology that you may find some fascination with in this life as you begin to explore your own sciences. How do you feel about metal? 

I don't have a lot of feelings at the moment. I love feelings. I like metals. I got it. What do you feel about the idea of crystalline metals? Well, when you ask me, now that I reflect, they feel very futuristic to me. Um, can you feel them?

Does it seem familiar? Very. Place your hand on an imaginary piece right now. What size? What shape? What color? And how does it feel? Well, I'm feeling a piece of something that feels very, very large the room. Yes. And um Oh, yeah. Now I remember what I saw. There was all this light. There's all this sort of laser beamy light. All right. Very good. Yeah, that's right. Can you understand an energy interaction between the crystallin metal and the light? 

Uh-huh. In what way? Well, it seems to help contain it only. Oh, all right. But it's charged as well so that the metal can move and it can use the density of the light for speed and travel. Is that right? Oh, very good. You do remember? No, I can't. 

Light is the motive force of all the craft and it is transformed by those grayish metallic crystallin cubes in a sense into the energy that is utilized for the transformation from place to place and time to time. Yeah, I see that now.

Continue to explore in your imagination. There may be a few things you will do right now. Yeah, I feel I should share some of this. All right. When I first came to see you that evening with my friend after just as you were all leaving, I saw from your forehead come tremend the same kind of light as if you were looking at all of us with a third eye or something really very magnificent. But I felt I really felt thousands of people looking at us through life. There are are you all there? In a sense, each and every one of us that interacts with you is the eyes of many more.


## After the Break

The title for tonight is simplicity itself.

Asker: is there such a thing as a holographic thinking? 

All holographic thinking is in this way all you experience. Everything the entire universe and everything in it is holographic. So a particular body of data is is not a proper thing to say you perceive something holographically. Is that different from linearly? In a sense, yes. It is simply the recognition of the interconnectedness of everything and the willingness to perceive the thought forms as multi-dimensionally transformational as opposed to experience them in the idea you call linear evolution. Does that um is is there an advantage in that type of living as opposed to disadvantage as as it relates to the simply the effect of allowing yourself to know you are connected to far more sources than you may be allowing yourself to realize with a linear thought. me. I tend to feel like I think full bull as opposed to me. And I also tend to my judgment is that often times if there is a lot of confusion, I can feel what's being said and I and I I get the picture but I need to to give that out manually in a way that is but that is why we say it does not have to be translated analytically. If you simply act upon the instinct upon the feeling then you will be allowing your physical reality to manifest whatever reflection it needs to of that idea. You don't have to have a linear equation for it. Doing it is the saying of it except that the agreement of others usually which are which is really tends to I have conflict. Why? That is only your self. But it is only self. You are simply not allowing yourself to be valid as you express yourself. You are thinking that you have to live up to someone else's expectation of the way you should have. But I notice even as we speak often times throughout the year or whatever how long there's controversy there are uh you give me this hand motion to sort of get me where I'm going. Um why did you do that? I'm I'm It's my own clarity. Why why you do that? Is does that reflect in my thinking or it gives you something to bounce off of? Are you serious? Yes. And that's simply we recognize within you the continuation of a creation of a type of pattern that requires that type of series of responses. You are always a surprise. We never form any expectations of any of you. You are never the same you in the next moment anyway.

Question. One more. All right. You then you then me. Hello. I've been having a a lot of realizations in this particular area of my life and share it with you. See if you can get a little reflection on it. I find that at times I will deny myself expression of preferences based on the consideration that someone else will create suffering for themselves or loss if I go ahead and simply look. Then that is your preference. Very nice. Thank you.

Thank you.
Yes. I want ants. Oh, ants. Yeah. Just wake up and just I always admire them. They work very nice. It's one of the bugs that I think people I don't feel water. I see. Do you not enjoy plants? Oh, yes. Well, then why not enjoy what the worms do for the plants? Oh, it's fine. Well, has that been of assistance? Yeah, but I still want to do What about them? Well, um, he started like, "Right, I don't want to leave my kitchen." Oh, my kitchen. So, I told him, "Well, you got to go out because you can live in my kitchen. If you keep getting in my kitchen, I'm killing my Oh, may I ask you a question?" Yeah. Why can they not live in your kitchen? Well, because the guys do everything, then they crawl over you and they do not like eating. So anyway, what happened is like I thought maybe I realized I thought they were very involved just coming in my kitchen. take over everything. Maybe that's true. This person doesn't actually doing what I'm right. That can be one symbolic reflection. Anything else? Well, that's how I got there. And I myself What about the unity of all their parts functioning as one? Yes. Yes. Yeah. Well, well, well, perhaps you haven't gotten the message yet. But then I started to kill again. What portions of yourself are you thus doing the same things to? Well, that's what I'm trying to figure out. Oh, well, do not try too hard. Can you make a home for them within your home? Why not design it so that they will want to stay there? Give them what they require in the place you wish them to stay. A lot of y Thank you. One moment. Thank you. I just have a question in regards to my feeding. Yes. Sustenance. All right. I only question about what I should eat because I don't really feel like eating at all. All right and don't and I want to say all right. How do you feel? I feel fine. End of conversation. But I want a further stimulation. Further finness. Further finess. Finess. You said you feel fine. Further finess scope of understanding why people say to me you better eat. You haven't eaten. very this way they may not understand that you can sustain yourself upon the energy alone. Okay, I just have an answer now. You do recognize in this way you will regulate your system as you know you are becoming more and more energetic. You will sustain yourself more and more on the energy that you channel through you and less and less upon the physiological symbols that are represented by what you call food. You will know when to eat and you will know what to eat. Very very good. Exactly. Now in relation to the transition, how could I clarify this more? Like is this like a fourth or fifth or sixth density or what is it that I'm doing that? It is a fourth density symptom. Sustenance off the direct energy of your actions. Your own momentum sustains you and you create a higher vibratory frequency that even when you require the symbolic sustenance you call food will manifest itself only in an urge for something that you consider to be a lighter variety of food. Exactly. As long as you know and as long as you feel that you are in that way balanced and energetic, why worry about it? I'm not worried about you say it's just that I'd like to share this knowledge where none of this is possible and it's okay. Then go ahead. Thank you.

May Yeah. Uh sometimes in social situations uh social Yeah. I get a little uncomfortable if I'm supposed to show up a certain way. Like in other words, I feel I know I'm creating it, but maybe you can give me some insight on it. I have a feeling that people expect me to be a certain way. I have to show up a certain way for them to approve me. And I know that that level of conversation is going on even though it's not verbal. And yet I want to be true to myself. All right. And and it gets a little awkward. Uh and may I ask you a question? Yes. Now I'm not saying this is the case but simply allow me to ask you so that you can explore this possibility. Are you sure that you are not doing what you are doing more for the idea of simply being reactive than simply acting upon what you truly would like to do that represents you? Uh I'm not sure I got that. In other words, are you going the other direction out of spite and thinking that that is truly how you actually feel like being or are you truly actually being like you feel like being? Many times you will find that because you surround yourself with this opportunity of others to judge you in that way and because you want to be true to yourself, sometimes you will go overboard the other direction in that sense and actually form a reaction to them rather than actually being true to yourself when you may realize that many times the ideas that they seem to prefer you to be are actually congruent and in synchronous harmony with some of the ideas you would actually prefer to be but that you will stubbornly not be just because you wish to be spiteful to them. Well, not not on a conscious level. Uh it it it might be going on because I judge people and then I set myself up to be judged. I mean on some level very good but you I had a situation with a friend of mine where I decided that I wanted to be truthful with him because I was suppressing my reality because and we both spoke our truth. I spoke my truth and then he spoke his truth and I didn't believe it was his truth but he was telling me it was his truth and we had a disagreement and it really screwed me up. I didn't know what you do when two people speak their truth but there's a disagreement there. How is it resolved or you respect each other's truths at all and it just it just hangs up. So then there is no resol. It doesn't get resolved. It did. Yes, there is a resolution. You continue your relationship based upon the new definition of your respective terms, right? Oh, okay. So I was holding on to that. You had a win or you had to have a resolution where someone kind of knew how it would result. So you you don't have to you could just write your own rules. All unity is formed from the granting of validity and equality within the infinite diversity. Mhm. So it seemed like I was trying to push on where there was an ultimate right and there isn't. Correct. The truth is composed of all truths. There is no one background against which to measure the validity of any other reality. Okay. And I I just have one other question. It's it's similar. It's a little different, but I it turned on today. Uh sometimes if I have to be put on the spot, let's say, or perform or public speak or be seen, I my mind will go blank or I'll feel terror or I'll forget where I'm at. Yes. Well, it is not uncommon in your society. Yes. What is what is the mechanism that triggered their same thing you are already talking about? Fear of being judged. Uhhuh. For what you are. Is there a way that that can be resolved by you doing something about your own judgment? Unless you feel more comfortable in you can look at it in whatever way your imagination allows you to feel comfortable. Do recognize that there are many different perspectives that you can have in that sense. First of all, realize that if they do wish you to perform that service, then obviously they think you must have something worth sharing. Mhm. So you may take it for granted in that way that you are simply respecting their request to share of the particular facet that you are. Mhm. know that no matter what their action and or reaction, each and every one of those people is getting out of it what they have chosen to get out of it. Period. Whatever the interaction, they are there by choice and so are you. So you do not have to feel responsible for their reactions. You do not have to live up to expectations. All you need to do is to be true and responsible to you. and to them by being who you are. You don't have to be responsible for them. You are being responsible to them by being who you are. Now, if they don't know that reality and they hold me guilty or I perceive their guilt, if you decide to accept their judgment of you by judging yourself, that is your choice. Okay, that's good. As long as you know you are functioning within your integrity, someone else's reaction or feelings are not your responsibility. They got out of it or didn't what they wanted to. Okay, that's great.

Thank you.

Right here. Yay. I have I uh came to Los Angeles. I have a personal problem. A what? It's a personal problem. A personal what? situation here for the clarification. A problem is a situation you will not allow to change its shape. That should be the answer. I don't know. I came to It is that simple if you wish it to be. I came to Los Angeles 2 years ago for a job and the job is no longer I'm no longer at that job. All right. And I've been trying for two years to leave Los Angeles. So you leave I feel blocked in every way and I don't know. Do you have feet? Yes. What is it? I don't know. That you think stops you? I The only thing I haven't come across is is is that um maybe I'm supposed to be here for something. All right. Perhaps. And I I can't get any. What excites you in life? What do you want to do? There is confusion. All right. Nothing negative about that. You are examining all your probabilities. You are co-fusing. At this moment, when we ask you what excites you the most, we are not necessarily asking you to define the idea that would excite you within the span of your entire lifetime. What excites you the most right now that is available for you? Anything at all? Yes. land uh nature uh quietness rural then why aren't you there I don't know then there isn't any reason trust that what excites you is the path you can walk most easily act upon it and you will always attract yourself other situations that represent the same degree of excitement who knows who you will meet in that forest I I your your your reasoning is right to me. I and I've said that to myself, but I just don't um I I seem to be very bewildered about it. I seem to be frightened of going out of whatever it is I I feel stuck and not make that that um crossing. That is only because you believe there is some great crossing to make and there isn't. It is illuminable. There is no great crossing. Do what you want to do. Do what moves you. Do what excites you. Then you will have crossed. You are constantly crossing. There is no great crossing. What do you imagine this great crossing would be? I don't know. Maybe um coming to Los Angeles is so difficult that I guess I'm I'm just scared to go out because I But you are not the same you now that you were when you came. So nothing of the you you were then applies to the you you are now. Nothing. The present is not a result of the past. Every moment is unique and always its own now. Any continuity or connection that you create from any so-called past to the present is your choice of illusion. The present is not a result of the past. Now is now. Whoever you know yourself to be now, that is the only reality you will experience. For it is the only you that there is for the universe to support. The you you are now, not the you you were then that is no longer you. Does that assist you? I think the other thing is is the unknown of not knowing any. Oh, understand that you create your entire reality and everything you discover if you are willing to treat it as fundamentally neutral will be familiar. Thank you. Thank you.

You me? Yes. Uh I want just I don't have really a question. I just That is all right. I do not need a question to communicate with us. I would like to express my appreciation and gratitude that you are sharing your intelligence with us. Well, we extend our appreciation and your willingness in this way to share with us your manifestation of your unique expression of all that is so that we may also co-create learning, teaching and sharing with you. Thank you for your love. Thank you for your beauty. Thank you. I I was kind of hesitant in expressing it because I'm not like sure whether you know about it. Even if we don't say it, if you sense it, but I in an overall sense, we do. But the idea of your willingness to express it in the way that represents your mode of communication means you put conviction behind it and thus you put it into the general pool that all can truly draw from consciously. Thank you. Thank you.

You several months ago uh my rings and my watch which I had worn for years suddenly felt strange on my body. I took them off and have been very comfortable without them. Once in a while put my watch on because I I like kind of a fun habit. And um I I believe it has something to do with the electromagnetic changes in the electromagnetic field of my body. I'm wondering if you could explain and also not needing to be so connected to time. Okay. Well, yeah, specifically for the watch. I wasn't able to tell time with my rings. Why not? you know. But so can you explain to me why or what? Well, yes, in that way as you have already recognized that certain electromagnetic shifts many times will create because of the mass consciousness belief system the idea that the wearing of certain materials can cause some of those energies to in a sense short circuit. So you will notice in that way that that is why there is the removal of all such material from the physiological channel. Ah I see. Now what um obviously removing these things allows the short circuit to become unshortced. I see. What then happens to the energy? How does it flow? Then you simply complete your own circuit. Okay. Rather than having it go through fluctuations. Oh, okay. In a related uh matter, I heard that um wearing leather on the shoes, leather on the feet such as shoes or leather belt is equivalent to wearing death since a dead animal. I'm wondering what your viewpoint or comment on that would be. Simply once again that any archetypal symbology that you choose to create within your mentality will have a degree of relevance according to the idea of your perception of the energy andor the reason for the existence of that artifact to begin with as it relates to your belief system. In this way therefore it may affect you that way and in this way also as you allow yourself to get into touch with that notion you will also realize that you will probably not necessarily want to have or create the manufacturer of such an artifact. True. however, could it not be so that you could just um Yes, it could be so by simply allowing yourself to know that the energy also in that way is available for you to be transformed in ways that can assist you until such time as you feel comfortable in making a change yourself. Are we talking about the same thing? Proceed. I'm not sure I asked my question. I'm I'm thinking that you could still wear a leather artifact. That is what I said. And not not have the uh quote negative. Okay. by allowing yourself to know that it is knows on its behalf. Its consciousness knows it is part and parcel of the transformation you are making. Thus, simply allow it to serve you in that way until such time as we have said that you feel comfortable in changing it for yourself. But then I would think that you would need to make the change. It may simply happen automatically. Okay. Well, if it if it does change, if it happens automatically, however it changes, that seems to be an indication that there's validity to this idea that the um the dead animal skin creates a negative whatever within the belief structure of your society to some degree. Yes. Okay. Now, this relates to the uh sunburn question that I asked you ago. Seems to me you could change that for yourself or perhaps um do a little switching and help the mass consciousness change the idea that dead animal skins would create that negative effect. Okay guys, but once again the idea is that it is a paradox and once you allow yourself to integrate with that idea as being all right then you simply find that as you accelerate on different ideas that represent different levels of energy will simply take their place. Not so much that it has a negative connotation, but it does represent certain ideas. Uh-huh. Thus, in this way, you will simply find a different representation. Such that the different representation doesn't really mean that that you've been experiencing negative. Correct. It simply is a reflection of a different idea altogether. In other words, perhaps the creation of clothing that does not require a vent. Yeah. Suspenders. Leather suspenders.

I have another question. All right. Actually, this is a sharing. I've been delighted recently uh to see in media indications that the mass conscious is is making uh various changes in the scientific community. Apparently, one fell has come up with the theory of a morphogenic field, ice, which is a real fancy term for the idea of some kind of electromagnetic connection between all beings, such as if a given group of people has learned something than somebody else who has not learned that has an easier time of learning it simply because they're connected with this work. It becomes more and more probable within the mass consciousness belief structure. Yeah. And I was also delighted to see a motion picture called Ferris Stew's Day Off, which if anybody hasn't seen it, is fantastic because it does express the idea that life works if you let it. All right. It's a it's a real fun message. Thank you, Michelle.

Yes, Michelle. I just have a question on um cocaine and what it is basically what does it do to the body and its popularity? You know, I don't know. In this way, you will find once again that any idea of a physiological tool is only a tool. And when individuals in this way recognize that the power is within them and they do not need to put the power in some tool outside themselves, then they will simply find themselves of a vibration that does not require the idea of the reliance upon the tool in order to gain a sense of self-empowerment. For in this way, the idea of a particular expression in relying and shifting responsibility onto a tool rather than simply taking it for granted that the tool is there to show you that you have self-empowerment and that you yourself can recreate the idea you think you are getting from the tool that you are actually creating yourself. Then in that way you will find that because it deals specifically with the idea of raw power, raw self-empowerment that as you keep relying upon the tool to give you the empowerment then that much raw power will cause burnout of all of the systems. Interesting. Well, yes. When it comes to the actual burnout, this possibility, what degrees or what type of time period? It would just vary with different people. Yes, it's to some degree. There seems to be a generalized mass consciousness reaction approximating the idea of a turnaround time of what you would call 3 months. Three months of usage would create this burnout. as or create the idea of an acceleration towards the burnout that is not reversible. There is an idea that it's not reversible that creates the idea in your mass consciousness as you have agreed to abide by what you call the physiological laws of chemistry. Okay. What's the sense? You can always circumvent that. All we are saying is that we perceive in your mass conscious mentality. It is at this time still unlikely that if an individual has taken themselves to that point, they will generally with rare exceptions experience it all the way. This all the way concept of a burnout. Yes. Could you describe that? What is neuronic sheathing breakdown? Enzyatic dysfunction, inhibition of nitrogen and oxygen carrying components. dysfunction of many of the ideas of organs within you that find their job to be filtering what you would call toxins. Therefore, the dumping of extra toxins into your system which accelerates the burnout. Electromagnetic disorientation, motor response dysfunction based upon the breakdown of the neuronic sheathing and the depletion of what you would call mineral and chemical constituents within the body. Impairment of the idea of the delivery systems of what you would call the substance lecithan into the brain cell structure. breakdown of the sheathing of the brain and all such ideas that you would call lubricating membranes in a sense. Therefore, you become an exposed and raw nerve ending in those cases that this has occurred with. You say there's no turn around or I would say anything. The idea as we have said is that anything is changeable in that way. Mhm. All we are saying is that as we experience the energy that are mass conscious, individuals who take themselves usually to that point will usually take themselves all the way to a burnout. I see. That is their experience of choice. Yes. Now burnout is different for different individuals in terms of the level they can tolerate it. Mhm. But it will all be related similarly to that idea. I see. In respect to the various people that this has occurred to or it's on its way, I'm just trying to look at a way that this can be understood or shared simply known in that way that all they are doing is substituting the recognition that they are the ones that are self-empowered to create the reality as they so desire and do not need to rely on an externalized symbol for the creation of that sense of power. Mhm. So basically like myself or others who choose to be that example of your own self be a reflection in whatever situations you attract yourself within in which you can be a reflection without being a reflection in judgment or accusation. Exactly. Thank you. Burned you. Is marijuana different marijuana different than cocaine as far as burnout? There will be many differences with any different symbol. In this way you are also dealing with the idea of what you would call depletion of the oxygenation of your system with that substance. So what what is the physical effects or mental effects of that? Deterioration of the cellular structure, a drying out in general, deprival of oxygen to the brain as well and the sessation of thought rationalization functions in time. Okay. What about ecstasy? blood chemical alterations to some extent. Some ideas inherent in what you call the liver. Possible that it will transfer over also to the area you call the kidneys. It may not be immediately felt in this way. Once again understand that any such idea is giving you an effect but it is not creating the effect. You are creating the effect and it is only there as a tool to show you what effect you can create in your reality once you know it is possible. You can create it without the drug. The continued reliance on the drug is not allowing yourself to manifest your own self-empowerment with the creation of the effect and simply assuming that the responsibility must be placed on something outside you in order to achieve that degree of connection. Any idea in a sense that is relied upon as an externalized self-empowerment will always eventually come up with some sort of what you call side effect. because you are placing the power to the side of yourself and not within you. So you will get a side effect reaction that will allow you to perceive where you require the centering and in what ways. Where you require the centering. Yes. In what areas of your consciousness. So the side effect reflect what? That's a part of your body and that is a part that's imbalanced or that carries the symbolic interpretation of many of the areas that allow you to generate the lack of self-empowerment to begin with that particular methodology. Could you please give an example? In this way, you may find that if you have the idea of what essentially in your body is a filter being affected, then it is a notation symbolically in plain terms by analogy that the idea is you are filtering out portions of yourself that you are not willing to look at. That is a simple analogy, but it will do.

Bashar
Bashar
you your spaceship I'm wondering does it live does it relate to you in the form of thought in a sense yes the mind of the pilot is connected to the mind of the ship now in its construction or its molecular density dice uh is it composed of metal or it is more of a crystal and metallic form that is grown in a sense have you dealt with magnetic drive at any point or are you dealing with? There are some fluctuations of electromagnetism within some of the ideas you would call drive but it is not purely exactly the idea you would call electromagnetic. It is more the idea of gravitational dynamic tensor fields. Now in that you said that the mind of the pilot is connected with the control mechanism of the ship. Nice. Could you give me an example of say plotting from one system to another system how the pilot would uh this take this in this way there is the creation of what is called the isolation field round and about the craft which isolates that field from any one particular universe thus opening up its navigational banks to all probable universes which are represented by their signature frequency vibrations. The pilot being intuitive in that way and simply tapping into the internal imagination dimension picks the frequency that is desired by the pilot. And thus this is imparted to the navigational spectrum of the ship which then simply imbuss the entire ship with that vibrational frequency. And thus when the isolation field is removed, the ship by definition must take up resonance within the universe that represents the vibrational frequency. Oh, thank you very much. You just set me free on nonstop. Thank you recognize that we simply understand that an object does not exist within time and space but that spaceime are properties of the object and can be changed. Uh okay. Thank you. You told me how to change. Thank you. Enjoy. Right.

Um my my husband wanted to know why does his body experience motion sickness and what he can do about it. Perhaps he is moving faster than he needs to. Perhaps he thinks he must rush to get somewhere. Perhaps it is also a carryover to some degree in a belief of a connection of what you would call a past life. Although we perceive that a large percentage of it are simply belief systems that he bought into in his childhood and experiences that he allowed himself to relate to that would always create an assurance that he would never move faster than he thought was comfortable. You follow me? But it is the product of a self judgment and so it can manifest in negative ways in that sense. Once he comes to the understanding that it is not possible for you to move faster than you need to, then he may lose the idea of the need for motion sickness to restrict himself. You follow me? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. I have another question. Thanks. Um, what can we do as individuals to increase our own ability to communicate teleactively? Love. Love. Understand that the idea of telepathy while it is an activation of an electromagnetic mental system is activated by emotion. To love someone is to know them. It is empathy. You follow me? That is why you recognize that individuals that you call being in love quite often know each other's thoughts. True. Because they are identifying with each other in the same frequency. then you are telepathic. Very good. Understand in this way, it is not exactly the idea of a transference of information from mind to mind. It is the copying of a pattern that allows you to translate the energy in the same way for you as it is translated for the other person. Thus you have the same thoughts simultaneously but they are each your own creation at the same time because you identify with each other on the same wavelength. So you translate the experiences in the same manner and seem to be sharing each other's thoughts. All you are doing is creating your own thoughts and channeling them in the same way the other person is because you are on the same frequency. Oh, excellent. Thank you. for you. One more question. I I keep hearing references made to third, fourth and fifth density. And I really have no idea what that means. All right. It is very simple in this way. The idea of your physical reality is now in third. You are going to fourth. It is simply a recognition that third density carries within the definition that you are in a seemingly objective universe that it seems to be outside you. It is a point of view. Fourth density is the point of view that the universe is your creation. You begin to see through the illusions and begin to cease to create so many separations and cease to create as much creation of spaceime. So things accelerate. You see through the illusions and know you are creating your reality and integrate all the different portions of yourself into one knowing you. You follow me? Yes. Uh in that transferring from one system to another system. Yes. If I were as a pilot here, dice wanted to transfer from this system to your system. What would I feed into my computer in the form of thought or ideas or concepts? The feeling that you have of us that is the vibration. Okay? How you would recognize us is the vibration. Okay. All right. Thank you. You can always key off of any single individual such as myself since my vibration is of my system. So in one question in using that vibration to key off of any particular person in any particular system then I could easily go from system to system just by signaling in on that particular entity. Yes. Oh it is like the tuning of the idea of your radio. You simply get what you switch the dial to running up and down the dial. Now do understand that this is what you do when you are out of your body in your sleep state. Anyway, you become the vibration and there you are instantaneously. Okay. The spacecraft is only an extension of the consciousness that represents the same idea in physiological symbolic terms. But it is still only an extension of the consciousness. Yeah, I was aware of that. But I didn't know uh how to construct one or how I would uh deal with traveling. Well, if you create the idea also of the so-called self-aware mentality or consciousness of the spacecraft, then the spacecraft can also tell you how. That's where I want to be. Recognize that when your civilization, as we have said, creates the idea that you call your artificially intelligent computers, all you will be doing is having created a symbolic reference that will allow you to be comfortable in speaking to your own higher consciousness. That is what is infused in the awareness of the ship. So that the ship becomes an extension or living entity of your mind and of you. and its directions based on what you feed into your mind and subsequently into it. Exactly. It is completely and totally keyed to your vibration and thus responsive to it and only to you. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. For you. Sure. Sure.

What is Can you address the subject of expectation? Many times it is only another form of judgment. The placing of a rigidized structure on something, the saying that it has to happen this way or it will not be valid. Therefore, it may not happen at all. So, it's like a form of prejudgment. Yes. to recognize in this way simply that when you have something that excites you and you form a visualization or some sort of a symbolic interpretation of that idea, you do not need to have it manifest exactly as you have visualized it to get the same effect. Even though paradoxically many times when you allow it to manifest in whatever way it can manifest. Many times you will find that you are accurate quote unquote accurate and it will manifest exactly as you have pictured it. But it does not have to. expectation is saying it has to thus closing all the other doors through which it may have manifested more easily than you were able to actually visualize it. Okay. Thank you. Well, thank you very much. Yes. Uh question of curiosity. Uh the president President Kennedy when he was shot, could you tell me a little about what happened there? Uh who did it or what was a little about the man or any information or insight in that? The individual this we can share. The individual that your society generally credits with that action never fired a shot. There were two others. There wasn't Oswald though. No, though he was connected. What was Ruby's connection? Uh to silence Oswald. Why is the information suppressed? You live in your society and you can ask that question. In this way, recognize simply that the idea of the individuals who desired the death of that individual would be many of what you would call the institutions that you hold to be sacrosanked. central state. Is that like the religions or simply some of the ideas you would call connections within what you call government and or corporate structures? Well, wasn't Johnson responsible? I mean, it's we are not here in this way to pinpoint specifics in that sense. Well, since I'm here, I could say that can each and every individual in your society is responsible for having created a type of atmosphere in which you would allow such a thing to occur. Yeah, you can not want death. In this way, you will find that certain ideas within that individual were contradictory to their own plans. Which ideas? Unification of certain structures that would allow there to be the cessation of what you call profits. Which structure? position. End of conversation. Thank you. Thanks. Um over here. Thank you. First of all, I on the way here last Wednesday, I thought how neat it would be to have a nickname since I never have received one. And you gave me one last week and I have to thank you for that. Number one. Oh, thank you, butterfly. Yes. And number two also, um over two months, by the way, have you met Strawberry? Many many guys. All right, continue. Wonder how they get along. Let's see. All right. Also, over two months ago, you had mentioned uh Plleades. I see. And researching and so forth. And then you brought it up again about a month ago. And if I had researched the physiological landing of a spaceship in Switzerland, and I still hadn't got too much on it, he gave me a a lead, which turned out rather very interesting. Um, and it's only taken me about 2 and a half months to call an item, which we're getting at. Um, that's when it did occur, everything started aligning very interestingly. Thank you. Thank you. And just One other aspect of it on reading it, it didn't I mean I'm amazed over the transaction with Billy Meyer etc. and all of the things that occurred during it and I can't stop the tears now. I have nine reality and I you are releasing you are centering you are remembering certain connections but I am yes but as it's happening I'm trying I'm looking at it saying okay what is it I've forgotten about and so forth and I've not been able to I mean it's not like a bad crying especially it's just sort of a we understand and can it be equated to the idea of homesickness Oh boy. Did I strike a cord? Okay, that's all. Thank you. Thank you very much. Keep flying. Lighten up. Right.

Okay. Yay. I was in Dallas that day and saw John Kennedy about 3 minutes before he got shot. I was downtown living there and working in that town. Interesting synchronicities. Uh we I finished my work and I synchronicity as it is would have it. I was I taken the bus downtown instead of driving my car. And I'm walking up the street where he last drove where it was being driven. I see. And I had I had the awareness of having I actually had to lean forward to walk down that street. The attention of the world and yes, what whatever other dimensions were focused so strongly. Oh, do recognize the multiple overlappings. And in this way, this is why we will not finger blame in this sense. For you will find that the idea is as your entire civilization's consciousness so ordained the creation of the passage of that gate in that way and recognize the overlapping of the vibrational symbology of your 1122. 11:22 power numbers in your numerological symbology. to master transformation. What was it? Um what was it that I was leaning into? Was it energy as the vortex of the consciousness in a sense? Yes. Becoming more solid because of the focused concentration. It it was as if I was leaning into a hurricane. I actually had to lean forward to walk up the street. Yeah. Thought has energy. I could feel the whole planet because he was such a focal point. Oh yes. Twice. Twice. Four score and seven years. Yeah. Wow. Hence the 11 and then the 22. The beginning and the completion of a gate. How did that serve us? Oh, wonderful to see that. Allow you once again in many different ways to bring to the surface things that were formerly hidden to begin to explore and experience the idea of taking responsibility and being your governments in this way and not needing the idea of victimhood andor what you call martyrdom in your society any longer.


On your spacecraft, the communications equipment with these different solar systems that you travel into, are you capable of communicating with them individually or is it on a mind level? It will depend. There may be interactions that will take place individually in that way and require certain specifications and the primary contact depending upon the state of existence of the civilization can also be mental in this way usually at first through what you would call dream communication. Are there any defenses or protections you can set up uh in the event you move into a system that you'll find is totally in harmonious harmonious with thinking the recognition of our vibration in that way as the reality we are will never find us in such a system. Oh okay. You can only exist in a reality of which you are the same frequency. in general. Thus, it is already within us that any idea that represents disharmony will in a sense not be available in all the probable navigational routes. Okay. Too different a vibration? Yes. Oh, okay. All right. Thank you. Of course you

um a week ago um an experience said to me that was really a strong feeling to me and I was wondering why I choose this for myself. Define and describe what happened. ice. Um there was a boy and he was swimming and he stopped and um his arm was in a way um dislocated. Nice. And and in a way it scared me and it made me have this emotion that I didn't know I didn't know how to take. You are still bringing up within you many connections to many past lives and in this way allowing other individuals to reflect to you those portions of yourself that you are now allowing to come to the surface of your consciousness so that you can deal with them and integrate them. It represented to some degree an emotional reaction to a situation in a past life in which you became disassociated from something that you loved. Thus, you allow the experience of another type of dislocation to bring that same emotion back up in you so that you could reassociate it and know that in this life you will never experience the idea of disconnection and or loss.

The shark [Laughter]


You had said several times weeks ago to create a mental image picture of a dolphin. So, my family went to the beach and I said, "I'm going to try this." And I we went to Zuma Beach above Malibu and I made a mental image picture of a dolphin and I blowed love to it and then I forgot about it and my kids are in the water and about 20 minutes later, eight dolphins. had oct and I was so excited. But I you know I enjoyed that. It was a wonderful experience. Thank you.

Me I more of creating that picture and sending love to it. Ah so thank you [Applause]

There will be a few moments remaining for this interaction this evening of your Mr. Bishop. You uh back to this craft and the directions of it again. Would it be better to let your higher self navigate in realms that you are not familiar with? By the time you find yourself constructing such a craft, you will be blended as your higher self. you will know what you are doing here. All right. Thank you.

Um my teacher, my master Badwan Shri Rajnish is not allowed into any country to stay in any country. Can you say something about the politics of it? And this is all that we can say at this time. You are your own master. Now act like it. Recognize that the idea of any master, the first thing any master will tell you is that you are your own master. Allow yourself to recognize this is an opportunity for you to know that you chose your reflections. You chose your circumstances and you chose your situation so that you would enforce your own weaning in that way and take your power and exercise your own selfmpowerment. Be your own master crystal, your own master tone. Share in love and light what you know to be true for you. Yeah, that seems to be what's happening right on. But I still would like to know where he is because just to we cannot share that idea at this time. We do not mean to be mysterious but at this point the idea of the specific labeling of that notation will not be of best service to all concerned. Thank you. Thank you.

I have two people. One of them is still in this world. one of them is left.

I'd like to know why I keep thinking about them.

What lives I've shared with them or perhaps many in this way the idea many times of what you call the continuation of thinking about them is your subconscious awareness of communication that is going on between you.

One of them I've had dream sequences with communication right but that ended at a certain point it has only transformed right understand in this way there is no need to go longing the idea of whatever energy is shared up to that point and then a change that occurs is your opportunity to use all of the energy and all you have communicated and all you have learned and act your life through and not continue to look elsewhere. there for the support that you can give yourself.

Any guides, any spirit guides, their job is to lead you to your own self and your own self activation. 

I don't feel it was a guide. I feel that there was lessons that we were both exchanging. Same thing. Oh, you are each other's guides. I did not ever mean to imply that the idea is only one way, for it never is. You are being of service to any spirit guide by interacting with them and allowing them to do what excites them. I have one more question. Proceed about eyes and the colors of eyes. I want to know if different colors represent different things or signify. No. No. Do you believe me? No. Thank you. Why would there be a difference if you did not create there to be different meanings within the only a few color? Why is there one blue, green, hazel, brown? There are many more. Mhm. And they are changing rapidly as you change the ideas of yourself. There are already overtones of the idea you call amber and violet in your civilization.

There are many many many fluctuations and subtleties that represent an idea that is the blending of the mass consciousness. 

Do they represent different qualities and different people? 

In a sense, they can. Again, many of these ideas will be symbolically archetypal according to who it is that's doing the perceiving as well. What color are those? White. All white with what you would call enlarged pupils. That would make them appear to be almost all black. But the actual coloring of what you would call the iris is white or whitish gray. At this time, we will extend to you once again our appreciation and our enjoyment of the vibration of your crystallin unconditional love and sharing. We appreciate your willingness to allow us to experience you. For thus it expands our knowledge of all the different ways that all that it has of manifesting itself and creates that much more of the universe for us to explore.

