---
heading: Part 1
title: "Interactions"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1986-03-26
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 92
---



This week of your time was said of a worse possibility in Libya in this way recognize

But your house surprised us.

In this way, our sensing of your energy allowed us to perceive that you had rechanled and in this way in a sense let us say deflected much of that energy. One, you co-created the idea of your interaction within your Philippine nation. 

In this way, our perception of your creation of the interaction anyway, one month after we perceived that it would occur, is an indication to us that you are beginning subconsciously, unconsciously and consciously to take over the reigns of control of the reality you are experiencing.

in this way you are becoming in that sense more accelerated and more random in your overall understanding of what you are determining is the type of reality that you will experience as your fourth density state. In this way therefore we find that at this time our perception into your overall mass consciousness will in that sense be now in this time frame more let us say sketchy for in this way you will find that if you are exercising the idea of the control of your own acceleration you are now going to create the interactions as you see fit in this way and we may be able to sense moment to moment some of those interactions, but now they can change in what you call the spur of a moment. 

We do detect that the energy of what you call the April month and in this way the opportunity to explore the decision and the choice of what type of reality you will have in your first density still remains and the incident still adds to the overall energy of the momentum of that opportunity. 

But in this way we find that you have created a degree of fluctuation within this pattern that is no longer discernable in any fixed structure following. In this way we thank you for the opportunity to experience let us say the willingness to begin to operate under your own power. You will find as you accelerate towards these opportunities, you can begin to choose the manifestation of these energies and interactions in more positive ways.

We will still make suggestions that will let April be activity month.

In this way, we will suggest ways in which the energy that you are now going to be able to begin to perceive within your society can be channeled in positive way to create the equal interaction with you, by you and from you, with from and to what you call your political, social, economic and religious structures in your society. not only in your own country but in all countries upon your planet. 

We will suggest activities that will allow you to have the boldness of the conviction of creating the communication necessary to allow other individuals upon your planet in this way to know what beliefs you prefer without accusation, without demands, but simply statements of preference. In this way, and in no uncertain terms, the allowance of other individuals to recognize that there is in your society this time within many individuals within that society a preference for peace. You follow me? Then we will make these suggestions and in whatever way, shape or form your imagination chooses to alter the idea. Functioning within your own integrity will be the way in which you shall manifest those suggestions if you choose to do so at all. Thank you for all opportunity in experiencing this co-creation of this acceleration at this time. And many of you will from this point forward begin to unlock further and further from the realities you have been experiencing within the format of your habitual structures and begin to form more and more experiences that will be spur of the moment synchronous simultaneous creation.

Curry you hi uh I don't quite understand how the specific media incident that's occurring now reflects our willingness to take over from our government. In this way, you will understand that you are creating interactions to take place that bring you to the understanding of what you call a negative interaction that will lead to other ideas of connections also with what you call Soviet Union that will bring you to the brink of a decision. I was wondering if you can offer a prestige prognosis for this uh event between us and Libya. Not at this time. This is what we are saying. You have the reigns in your own hands at this time. You are running on your own steam and in this way you are changing the decisions now from moment to moment completely. we may perceive in any given moment. But now to us, your overall consciousness particularly as it is focused within that endeavor is a blur of acceleration. In other words, if you wish to make an analogy, we now may view the idea of what you may call the roule wheel in motion. And in this way, there is no telling where the ball will drop. We can perceive it is in motion. We can perceive that you with your own hands have spun the wheel. Where the ball will drop will be the product of the decision exactly when the decision is made and then we will know and you will know at the same time. We should expect the unexpected. Thank you.


Before I was speaking to Darl uh earlier about some feelings that I had and some thoughts that I had and I didn't really want to talk about them openly. Why? Well, because that's a console right now. Oh, maybe in a few minutes I might change my mind. Sure. All right. Um, in the last 6 days, or I should say about 6 days ago, I I went through a process that May I ask you a question? Yes. Are you sure? Am I sure? Am I sure I may ask you a question? Oh, yes, you may. All right. You do not have to answer. All right. All right. Thank you. Can you use your imagination right now for a moment? Yes. Yes. All right. Will you imagine in all the scenarios and situations that you feel you are are creating yourself to be? For now, because we are playing a game, it is safe. Ask yourself and envision what is in your terms the worst thing that could possibly happen. The worst. Give it your best shot. The worst. Have you got it? Can you imagine something that you could call the absolute worst thing that could happen? Yeah. All right. How does it feel? Um, emotional. All right. Do you find that in imagining this so-called worst thing that could happen that you are still perceiving opportunities and avenues in this situation in which you could still function to change that situation? You mean I have choices? Yet even within the worst thing that could happen, do you still perceive that even within that experience you have choices? Yes. Then understand you are perfectly safe in all the endeavors you are enacting right now. For in this way, if you can imagine even within the worst scenario that you still have choices, you are completely in control. Yes. Therefore, right now, allow yourself for a moment. We are still playing the game to forget all of the situations you find yourself to be within. Allow yourself to create right now a situation that is neither in this sense, let us say, any worse, any better, but simply, let us say, extremely different from the ones you find yourself to be in right now. If you wish, 180° create and invent a situation that has nothing at all to do with what you are doing now. Something completely and totally different. Can you do that? Okay. Have you got him? Yes. All right. Now, how does that situation feel? Better. Better. All right. Now, in what way? Uh, more secure. Secure. Do you what? I will say, can you allow yourself to know why? Why? I feel more secure. Yes. All right. Now, ask yourself the question two ways. Allow yourself to perceive that you may feel more secure because you are not in the situation you were in. But let that go for now. The question I am asking you is, can you imagine why you feel more secure because of the situation you are now in rather than the situations you are now not in? I'm sorry. Oh, right. The wind was simply the situation you are now within in your imagination. Uhhuh. How does being in that situation allow you to feel secure rather than simply the idea that you are not in the other situations which make you feel less secure? How does the situation itself allow for the creation of security? It feels more like a successful end result. Successful. What does that mean? Accomplishing my end goal. All right. End result. End result. Now you know and I know you know that nothing ever ends. You follow me? You will always be growing. You will always be creating. Always. Always. Always eternally. You follow me? Mhm. Now with this idea, can you find that if you will extend yourself in this new situation to the next step and the next one and the next one and the next one on and on and on and on, always accomplishing the intermediary goals that lead to new goals that lead to new goals. Can you understand that eventually you may still come around back to the situations you are in now in different ways? Yes. And that's probably part of my question. All right. Of seeming it. I feel like I have made a commitment to myself as far as becoming more aware. More aware. All right. And um how have you made that commitment to yourself to become more aware? simply just by being open to learn more. All right. What about making that commitment to yourself to become more aware by being who you are and allowing who you are to be all right? What about that? Um, that's crossed my mind yet. All right. Then recognize in this way that what you seek will and is I'll say be attainable in that way if you allow yourself to know that exactly where you are is all right because you chose to create it to show yourself something of value. Right. I understand that. All right. And I and I Then why do you feel that the situation you are in is not something that is going to get you where you want to be? Because I have created the same situation more time. Nope. Too many times. Nope. You have never created this situation before. All right. I All right. I follow. Yes, I do. It is always new. Understand that when you give yourself the opportunity each and every one of you many times to feel like you are seemingly repeating a situation, you are not repeating anything. You are giving yourself an opportunity to understand you have grown because now you are looking let us say at a similar situation from a different point of view. You are constantly checking with yourself looking at the same situation from a different area on the cycle as you rotate around the situation to check all the different parameters and perspectives you have now allowed yourself to become. You follow me? Yes. You are not rehashing anything. You are always looking from a new point of view. It is only your judgment that you are rehashing something that does not allow you to see through the eyes of the you you now happen to be. You follow me? Oh yeah, that makes a lot of sense. Okay. Well, the other part of my question um is I I feel like when I make what I consider to be great strides, great strides. Yes. Measuring. Always measuring. Are you living or measuring? I'd like to think I was living. You'd like to. All right. How about doing it then? Think that you are living. Okay. I am living. Thank you. Then recognize if you are living. That means you are enjoying every moment that you live. And there is no need to measure one moment as compared to the last one. to make measurements to figure out in your judgment how far you have come. For understand that no matter where you are along the line, both where you came from and where you are going is infinite in either direction. There is no way to measure where you are along the line. You follow me? Yeah. All measurements of how far you have come are completely and utterly arbitrary. They are illusions. You are living in the moment. You always will be. That is exactly always where you will find yourself right now. Always now. You will never find yourself anywhere else ever except now. So what is there to measure? If there is nothing else except now, what can you measure from now to? You are always, if you make any measurement, only measuring from now to now. It is always now. Well then, it is an analytical form of judgment that you are structuring yourself within. There is no need to be cautious of every step. Make sure you are always exactly balanced on that thin edge walking that very thin line. If you create the assumption that the path you are on is a thin one and that you could fall to either side very easily, then you will have a tendency to create the opportunity to lose your balance. Understand that if you are the path that you are on, then you can allow yourself to be as wide as you wish to encompass the entirety of your universe. You follow me? Yeah. Okay. What has we served you? Yes, I have to think about what you said and digest. You do not have to. Why? That's what I choose. Oh, thank you very much. Sure. Sure.

You

um last week I shared with you that I I began breathing more consciously and that was bringing up a different experience of living for me and this week it's become my breathing has become deeper. That's what I All right. And um it's very interesting. I'm getting a whole different sensation in my throat area. Nice. I just the only I mean I don't really need to compare just all right. You are clearing. You are oxygenating in that way. You are invigorating yourself. Like when I used to run and I'd get that somewhat same type of feeling. you are allowing yourselves to become open in your ability and willingness to express who you are. Yes. And um I'm finding that I'm being so much in the moment lately that it it's thoughts that are coming up from not even staying around very long. Um I don't even know how I feel right now. If someone asks me how I feel, how do you feel? The closest I can come to this I feel alive. Thank you very much. a complete answer. And also um I'm not hungry lately. Yes. And when I eat one of the symptoms of fourth density transformation okay and when I eat you are sustaining yourself on your own energy. Yes. With the brain. Okay. And when I eat but yet my stomach feels empty yet I'm not hungry. And when I eat my stomach still feels empty. All right. You will find your own balance. You will find your own pace. But I love this because eating to me has most of my life been something that I would rather not spend the time doing. I'd be rather doing something. All right. Don't judge it. Well, no, I'm not. In fact, it's something people like to do. To me, it's I just take it if I are you ingesting water. Not a lot. All right. At least what you call three of your glasses a day. Okay. No, I haven't. All right. The energy in the matrix of the water will also add energy to your cellular structure. Okay. Um, now I don't also I don't need to have this belief that um this is just cause you to lose weight by eating not eating. You may lose a little but in this way it is not so much a loss but a shifting of some of your mass into energy. It's all Yeah. And also um there tends over the last year I felt this a lot and even more now a sense of such a lightness that sometimes I feel like I'm floating like my feet aren't touching the ground. Good. Very good. Again, another symptom of the acceleration into force density. Good. I'm having a good time. Thank you very much for the sharing of the idea and the expression that you are. Thank you. That evening for sure.

I wanted to share something that happened to me last week. Oh, what? I had a I had a thought and I realized that the thought I had was a conclusion of things that I had subconsciously collected. In other words, I had subconsciously collected some facts and come up with a conscious conclusion. All right. And is that what you mean by when you have a thought, it's the end of a process, not the beginning that requires action? It makes sense. Yes. It is the cognition in this way of the blending of knowingness and all of the processes you might be creating within yourself. Okay, that's pretty much what I thought. I don't have a question though. Uh, I'm curious. It's conceived that certain magicians and sorcerers could could utter certain sounds or spells to unlock and unlock energies from different dimensions and healing spells. What kind of tonality the utilization of vibrational harmonic resonance? That is what you call the idea of a chant or a magic formula. So they they do exist on more than just other dimensions in a sense. Yes. Is that knowledge uh available to us? Of course. Uh could you enlighten us to any of those? Do your own research. Understand there are so many in that way that you will simply attract yourself to the one if you need it that feels right to you. You can also invent your own. Why is it called black magic? Now in this way understand that that is a term that lumps many ideas within one. The idea in that way of simply the recognition of those tonal vibrations is not considered by everyone in your terminology to be black magic. Sure. In this way, simply recognize however that there have been individuals that have attempted to utilize that idea for negative purposes. And in that way, that could be in your society called black magic. And in this way, there are also many individuals who perceive all the idea of that type of interaction with the universe as something negative. And so they would call anything lumped within that black magic. Okay, I got you. Thank you. Can I ask you a couple things about crystals? Um, I wanted to ask you, uh, do pure isotopes of the same element crystallize identically? No. Can you force them to crystallize in ways other than the natural way they would crystallize? There can be some rearrangements in a sense. Is that what you do to your magnesium 31? To a degree you will find in this way that it will have a naturalness to crystallize in a certain path but also it will follow the template laid down in the energy force field for it to grow upon. You talk about the template often as far as I can understand it. It has a lot to do with what we call our scalar electromagnetic potential. It has everything to do with everything called physical reality. Okay. Well, this is the beginning of our understanding of non-physical reality. All right. Is the template I understand that to be part of the non-physical it is the last bridge in the link in this way just before physical reality from non-physical. Okay. Does that have to do with the we're trying to we're trying to put together the non-physical and physical here on earth and they're trying to understand the photon interaction with the spinning of the electron. Again, in this way, as we have said, the inclusion and allowance of consciousness in the equations will make all the difference. If I were to help Daryl learn some of the uh higher mathematical terms necessary for quantification of consciousness, could you channel that through him? Possibly. Thanks a lot. Thank you.

Yes. Uh, I'd like to share some thoughts about uh changing between third and fourth and back. Oh, by all means. And and get your ideas. Um, it seems to me that at one Well, I I'll tell you what happened to me and get your reaction. Uh, at one point a couple of months ago, I was I felt myself so so speeded up that it almost became impossible for me to actually do my job at work. All right. So, I Did you have a good time? Oh, yes. Oh, thank you. Please continue. I was having a good time uh of watching watching myself uh see what's happening especially in terms of transformation. All right. But I realized that there were certain concepts that I couldn't really deal with that I had to deal with. So I told myself uh very consciously I said okay I'm going to remain in fourth density or wherever I am yet from where I am. I'm going to allow myself to function in the third with the third density concept. How creative. And and it works. Uh, and I was wondering if you if you could perceive though whether right now the last two weeks I've been very busy at work and doing a lot of third density work. What does that mean? Well, I that's a good question. Uh, that means I have to deal with uh you what I I work I I deal with concepts. All right. I'm I'm aware that it's linear and it's causal and and this kind of stuff and I'm aware of it and I'm quite capable of doing it because I've done it for a number of years. You know, right now does that doing this does that slow me down? No, it it doesn't. Obviously not to me. Oh, well, thank you. Allow me to illuminate. In this way, recognize that since you know what you are doing, you are doing it from a perspective that allows you to contain the idea of third density from a fourth density perspective. And in this way, it is one of the ideas you have chosen to explore about your transformation. So therefore, it is not a slowing down of anything. Okay. But I did it uh earlier when I I slowed myself down consciously. All right. Then that served a purpose. Yeah. because I felt that if I didn't I could disappear if I wanted to. Yes. And so I I very consciously did it. All right. Thank you. Now, can you can you perceive these kinds of changes in people? Sometimes it will depend upon what they are willing to share of themselves in that way and what is pertinent to our interaction. Uh because you has you've said once before that you couldn't most of the time you recognize people but sometimes you didn't because they changed their vibrations. Thanks. And I was just wondering do you recognize me? Yes. Oh, you do? Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Do you recognize me? Indeed. Oh. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Sure. Sure.

Sure. Sure.

new venue. Um, the other night my girlfriend and I at about 2:00 in the morning, Friday morning, we saw a UFO and she brought it up to you on Monday night. Uh, and we both sensed into it. And when I sensed into it, I got the name of aia and from the planet Sirius Cirrus. and the sense that I got of her. Um, are you saying Sirius or Sirius? Sirius. Yes, that's correct. I I didn't know how to pronounce it. Are you referring to Sirius? Sirius. Yes. The number standing this way is not a planet, is a star. All right. There is planets round about the stars. Continue. All right. Thank you. Um and my understanding of of her was uh she said All right. All right. Yes. In this way, recognize that our perception of that idea is a connection to some of that energy in an outward sense, but also through symbology that are archetypal to you in many past lives that allow you to gather together many of the ideas you have been. Two, show yourself through the symbology of the energy you once used in that way and are using now. How to form the connection forward. I see. Thank you. Are you sure that clarifying the idea? No, I'm not sure. Continue then. Okay. I talked to John the other night about the same and we're both kind of wondering how it all connects from. All right. Now again understand you can utilize your imagination and simply recognize that the idea is that you are connecting into a certain portion of your unconscious mass conscious energy that allowed itself in times past to be physicalized and exemplified upon your planet earth in forms that you then understood to be elemental spirits. Understand that the serious energy manifests in the same way. It cloaks itself in the elemental archetypal energy of your electromagnetic system. And thus what you created in the past enclosing let us say giving substance to the energy of the mass subconsciousness. then is what you are doing now in the recognition of the connection to the seeming ET consciousness. So it's a blending of there perhaps this will clarify the idea as well. Many times when what you call serious energy has let us say projected its mentality to your planet. It has always been perceived in mythological form for they do not come physically. They impress themselves upon your mentality and your mentality will cloak them out of the electromagnetic subconsciousness in whatever form makes sense to you. And in this way, many of the mythologies upon your planet are the result of interactions in that way. But what you perceive is not a literal perception of how they look. And thus, because you were forming those same types of connections to what you have called upon your planet, the elemental spirits of nature previously in many lives that were very strong to you, you can utilize the same connective force and understanding with regard to your identification and forming of the relationship now. You follow me? Yes. Will that have clarified the idea to some degree? Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you.

joining us. One moment. Yes. You are next. Hello. This is Million. Do you recognize me? Yes. I have a lot of questions. All right. So, this one um I want to ask about my friends from above or out there or or in there or in there. What about them? Well, when would you rather tell me rather than ask? Oh, well, no. I'd rather ask. Oh, all right. Be the before when we talked, I asked you who they were, right? And you told me that some were pleadians, some were serious, serious, and some were friends of Pleadians. We didn't want you to know who they were yet. All right. So, I'd like to know if you're ready to let me know who they are. You can find out. The whole point is is that when the idea of the timing has occurred, you will find out. Not from me, from you. If only somewhat somewhat somewhat. Why are you not willing to understand that you have the power to find out for yourself? The whole point of saying they are not ready is another way of saying that you have chosen not to be ready. to be. Expand and open yourselves in complete vulnerability to all that you know yourself to be and you will automatically create the connections and the opportunities in your life that will lead you to the understanding you need to have. Mhm. You follow me? Yes. What else? Okay. Next. Uh I have a child 16 years old. Going to be 16 years old. All right. He's currently in a juvenile home in Silar. All right. Uh there is another person that I don't really hear tonight. Uh his name is Rick. And Rick and I have known each other for several months. And each time we talk, we have goosebumps. And there's just an incredible connection between us. A what connection? Uh incredible. Thank you. A fabulous connection. All right. A perfect connection. I'll find you. And I feel very strongly that it is also connected with my son. All right. And I will how that's how how somehow or other Rick and my son seem to be very similar. All right. And they also seem very similar to me. All right. From the first time I ever saw Rick from just a distance, I felt a strong sense of love for him. even though I didn't know him but it's very very powerful love and a cherishing kind of Did you almost think of him as perhaps your son might be understand in this way in our perception in our perception which does not say much but in this way simply in our perception What you call the entity Rick and what you call the entity being your son in this way are counterpart entities of the same consciousness. One exemplifying a futurized aspect of itself in the same time frame. What? What? [Music] One creating your son creating a futurized aspect of the same soul in the same time frame and the elder creating a past aspect in the same time frame rather than in another life. Does that clarify the idea? They are reflections of each other in different understandings. Would it be a good idea to introduce them? They have not met. Go ahead. Okay, I will. Okay. Thank you for co-creating the idea. Thank you. Now when you place the two mirrors in front of each other, allow yourself to also recognize how many reflections of yourself you will see. Oh yeah. You are now creating in a sense something which can open up ideas within you holographically. You follow me? In other words, instead of encountering the flatness of a reflection, it will open up dimensions within you that will allow you to see yourself and your relationship as the interaction with them in a triangular triad formation that will allow you to understand many different levels and directions and dimensions of yourself simultaneously if you are willing to simply be open to the energy without judgment or expectation. Oh, okay. Immerse yourself in the energy of the interaction. Do not make demands. Do not insist how they should interact in this way. Simply allow the interaction to take place and immerse yourself in the creation of the energy field that results. You will allow certain ideas to open within you and that opening will create you to be a reflection for them. That will allow certain ideas to open for them. You follow me? Yes. Anything else? Oh, yes. Maybe back through spring. Um I recently had um I know we've pinpointed two. We have a pin. Thank you. Um the same kind of energy. And I've had a a feeling of um another one. I think it it still is insane and it has to do with the Inquisition and with me being a a Catholic or a monk or maybe one of the Inquisitors. All right. What does that idea do for you? Um um understand you are creating that connection from the present in the present. What does it allow you to reflect to yourself as the present you? Just more understanding of of some of the things that that occur to me like a lot of like Catholic churches for certain parts of liturgy and a part of ritual that occur in Catholicism that all right a fascination with it comfort in it. All right. Can it also allow you the perspective of not being judgmental in your inquisitiveness. All right. All right. Thank you. Thank you.

Thanks. Uh Bashar, many of our medical and nutritional practitioners as well as many layman have observed that refined sugars can cause deterioration of the physical body, organs and whatnot. I believe you confirmed that this was one of the mass consciousness choices that we've had on this planet at least, you know, for the past several decades or so. And I'm I observe that there's another sweetener called neutrieet and the chemical name is aspartame uh which is gaining a lot of popularity in at least our society. I'm wondering if our mass consciousness has an agreement that this also has deteriorative effects. It does. Can you eliminate us? Eliminate us on those cuts. Some of them will be what you call adrenal. In what way? The inhibition of the ability of those glands to process properly and to create what you call toxic side effect substance. You'll find there will be chemical bonds created in which inhibitors of in the acid arane will take the place of natural nutrients within that area and not allow there to be a continuation of natural formation chains chemical structures which allow there to be processed in the at the of your abdominal area the natural function of those glands you follow me. Yes. Very good. Um I don't know if the comparison can be made but would you say that if I were to choose between neutra sweet and sugar would there be a less intuitive choice? It will depend upon your belief structure. Thank you. Thank you. Is there another substance which can add sweetness? What do you call natural fruit juice? Fruit juice.

I was curious, how do you designate points in space? In other words, how do you design what is your coordinate geometry like on a systemic? Do you mean navigation? Sure. You'll need to have some points in time space to get there. How do you do that? In this way, you will find that when we allow ourselves to isolate ourselves from the field of any particular universe, then in this way, all universes will become immediate. In that sense, they will take upon them the form of surrounding us within a shell, a holographic structure, spiritual structure in this way. And you can within that understanding let us say in a colloquial manner choose the idea of a particular direction relative to the inner surface of that sphere that has been created around the ship. You can identify by frequency vibration by fluctuations in the idea of the overall vibrational patterns. It is in a sense equal but always in this way it is equal relative to the understanding we have of ourselves as the universe. We are always the zero point. Mhm. No matter where we are. That seems logical for the ease of calculation. It is mostly the idea not so much of calculation but identification in the manner that you would understand to be identifying with something. In this sense again it is not so much that we pick out any specific point but that we identify with the vibrational resonance of an idea. We scan let us say the flavor of the different universes the different locales and in this way what we identify with in this way what we identify as the vibration that we wish to be congruent with we simply adopt as the vibration of the entire ship. Are you there? Yes. Once we remove the isolation field, okay, which is mass like a gate, it is in your terms an energy field that surrounds the ship and isolates it from any particular universe so that it is in touch with all universes. We instill upon it through the idea of the identification of vibration upon the ship itself a new understanding of the property of its location. Location to us is not a space in which an object exists. It is a property of the object. And if you redefine that particular property then the object by definition must take up residence at the new location automatically instantaneously. You follow me? Yes. But how you change mass? mass. We are not moving mass. We are reidentifying the idea of what the mass is. In other words, if you find there is an object, two objects, and you measure them identically in every way, shape and form that you can, you will still find that there is a difference. They are two objects. They occupy two locations. In this way, the reason that they occupy two locations from our substitute a new locationational understanding. When you remove the field, it will simply automatically holographically be where it needs to be to be in synchronous harmony with the new identification you have given it. Nothing is moving. There is no traveling at all. It is reidentifying the idea of its location. Understand all travel within time and space is travel within. But it is not really travel at all. Nothing is moving. Even when you walk through a room, it is only an illusion. You are not really going anywhere. Follow me. Yes. Do do you have where you come from? Do you have masks yourself? Yes, fourth density mass. So you have no blood circuit in a sense. Yes, we are in your terms still fourth density beings in that way in our physical expression. You would be able to perceive us as having physiological form though it will be somewhat different from your own not only in appearance but also in consistency. Do you uh do you die? In a sense, we allow ourselves to simply when we know the purpose of our lifespan is up to exit in a sense leave the body and it converts into the energy of the electromagnetic field of the planet. And does time affect your body? Very slightly. In this way, you will find that the majority of the sensation of time that we create is for the purpose of interacting with other civilizations that still are in third density. We will experience some degree of the passage of time, so to speak, but more often than not, our experience will be of the timing of an event, the simple experience of an idea without regard to the idea of how much time has passed. We do not measure so much in that way. Are you individuals or are you tied into a construct larger than yourself? Both. So are you. We simply allow ourselves to be conscious of it.

One moment. Can you explain again what you said about moving in a woman? Simply in this way, the idea of any motion at all is an illusion. Since you are creating yourself from moment to moment to moment to moment, you are creating the illusion of the continuousness of the idea of being here then there. You could instantaneously be here then there without all the intervening moments. If you wish, it is an illusion that you need to take this step, that step, that step, that step, that step, that step and so forth. You can simply create yourself to be here than there. But that woman is made of wood here, isn't it? That is a definition of a rearrangement of energy, which is a vibrational pattern, which is something that comes from your consciousness. All physical reality is a symbolic illusion. You create it to seem solid because that is the illusion you desire. The ultimate speed is being there. Guys, understand that when you are at infinite acceleration, when you are everywhere at once, the feeling is in the sense of standing perfectly still. You follow me? It is more, if you wish to say, put it more colloquially in the terms you understand it. It is still not in this way, let us say, an accurate analogy. But you can understand that it is not so much that you go anywhere. It is more that the universe comes to you.

One moment. Are you? Uh, yes and no. All right. Yes. Uh, are you the only person representing your planet information? No. How many are there? How many are there on your planet? Well, here. How many people are doing what you're doing tonight on your planet? On your planet or on all planets that we are in contact with? Well, that's the way it is. Which? All right. 12 on your planet. 17 on another planet, 51 on another. 38 on another, 14 on another, two on one. No. Three.

Will I do? That's another question, guys. Um, well, me personally, and I think maybe some of the other people here might have the same feeling. All right. Speak for yourselves. I'll speak for myself as um as far as rushing things to happen or to not experience certain things but to just get to the end result. Is that is that normal or is that just normal? It is the way you have created your society to be but in this way is not allowing yourself to experience the life you are creating for yourself. Understand that every single moment of your life is what you have chosen to experience to get where you want to be. When you overlook that and create the idea of impatience by creating a need for patience, you do not consciously experientially live the life you are creating yourself to live. You follow me? Yes. Will that answer your question? Yes. I have one more. All right. Um I'm in I'm in the process of um considering changing my experience as far as my job. All right. And I just want to hear some feedback from you. Feedback. What are you allowing yourself to become excited about? What is it you desire to do? You want me to tell you or you want me to just say okay? Yes. Tell me. Uh, I want to work in a television sales. Oh, all right. That is exciting. Yes, that's exciting for me. Yes. How exciting? Very exciting. Oh, all right then. Have a good time. Understand there is no more to be said. If you are completely excited about that idea, if you are willing to know that you are that idea right now or you would not be able to perceive it, you can only perceive what you contain. Since you know you are that idea right now, if you are willing to be that idea right now, you will attract automatically all the situations, opportunities and individuals that you require so that you can act upon those opportunities, situations and individuals and interact with them in the way that will allow you to be that idea and express yourself in that way. It is that simple. Did you catch that? All right. It is automatic. Let yourself be automatic. Act upon the opportunities you attract.

Thank you. Please

you had mentioned that there are on your planet 200 million permanent party approximately and many many visitors. Is the same thing true on this planet? No. Do we have any visitors along those lines now and then a few? Yes. Is it of significance to us in our present situation to be in touch with these? If you need to, you will be. From time to time, some of you have come across some of these individuals. Perhaps you had a feeling of disorientation when you did. In this way, if it serves you, you will interact. You may not interact very strongly, but you may find yourself crossing paths, looking back, wondering what it was that you experienced that was so strange and different. And in this way you may also find that many times individuals who have interacted with some of those individuals will look back and find the individual with whom they interacted to be gone. You follow me? I had the experience of having a what seemed like a very strong tall much taller man who was halfway into my body and halfway out and who uh was it was said was the source of my channeling about anger work and the pretend work that I do. All right. But the idea in this way of the idea of interacting with consciousness for the purpose of channeling is not the same idea we were discussing. I see. I see. So was was this a a uh channeling situation or was that that was Thank you. Thank you for one moment. Are you uh I was wondering if you could give a uh a real example, an actual example of such an interaction with one of these visitors. I just did. You are, let us say, driving along in one of your cars. You see someone standing by the side of the road. They, for some reason, feel a little strange, look a little different. Something is not quite fitting in. There is nothing around for miles, but there they are. They do not appear, in your terms, to be hitching. They are simply staring, observing, looking around. You pass them and you have gone no more than perhaps a few dozen feet. You turn around and they are nowhere to be seen. This is one incident that has occurred to an individual upon your planet. Thank you. [\h__\h] you.

When you're speaking through Daryl, is it just you or is it the collective consciousness of your planet? Quite you. In this way, it is in a sense both. I am always connected to the collective consciousness of my world in this way and many times the pulsation of the association will be present. I am simply in a sense directing the flow. So from time to time it will be the idea more of my own consciousness, more of their consciousness from time to time. But understand in all cases it is not exactly specifically what you recognize to be my consciousness or theirs or even the physiological channels but a completely blended third idea of that of all three of those and and you in your perception of it create yet another version of it. Okay. In the book uh the raw material raw speaks of itself as a collective social memory complex. Yes. The association. Uh is that different than what you're describing? Not intrinsically. No. Although it does allow itself to focalize in that way upon many densities that also are not physiological. Whereas many times you will find that while we do recognize within the idea of the association also the same non-physiological entities, many times our reference to the association is also of all the physiological civilizations that interact with each other specifically. What you would call a confederation whereas what they are referring to in this way is the recognition of all of their own specific consciousness as the dimension in which they are coming from. Did that make sense? did that somewhat not entirely. The idea of their memory complex is the recognition of the entities that they are not so much coming from a density but actually being the density they come from. Understand that when you allow yourself to let us say in your terminology achieve a certain level of existence, it is not so much that you recognize you exist within dimensionality. You recognize that you exist as the dimensionality itself. I see. And this is what they are describing themselves to be. That's what they mean when they say they are a social memory complex. Yes. A a collection of many ideas that forms its own state of being in a dimensional sense. Okay. Thank you.

You may all take a short break.

It seems to be similar to when you're channeling your higher consciousness. So I I suppose anytime you're blending with another consciousness in that way, uh we can expect you may notice variations in the transmission. Yes. Thank you. Thank you.

I have a dream that I'd like to share with you and ask a question about I have a cousin named Alyssa that had a cable pausy and she was born that way. Severely handicapped. She can't speak. Um, and in my dream, you mean not vocally, right? Very much through her eyes. All right. Um, so in my dream, she had died and her parents, my aunt and uncle, were grieving over her and I went into the room where she was and pulled she had a sheet over her head. I pulled the sheet back and I didn't feel like she was dead. So I talked to her and then she sat up and superimposed over her body was a body of a little boy and the father was so astounded he said I've got to get her to a doctor immediately. He took her to the doctor and the doctor said that all of her genetic problems had been cleared up. And the dream went on where I was talking to her and talking to the superimposed little boy as her. Um, and that was the end of the dream. And then about a week later, she had someone call. She doesn't speak, but she had someone call and say that she wanted to talk to me. I was wondering if you can tune in to her specifically. And in general, I want I want to know about handicapped people that are now going through the density shift. Nice. In this way you will find first and fundamentally that many of the ideas of what you call handicapped individuals allowing them to experience an acceleration of an experience in this way. In your terms to have the experience very quickly in life to compact a lot of limitation into the life so they will not need to experience that form of limitation again. You follow me? Yes. In this way, one of the perceptions that we have of the idea of the so-called little boy will be an exemplification of the potential of what? Now, this is our perception at this time of what her next incarnation can be. You follow me? In this way, it will be the opportunity to recognize that it can be someone born with full freedom, full recognition and full consciousness into the understanding of the transformation. There is also the opportunity to choose not to be physicalized and assist from the level of what you call spirit realm. In the same way, so is there a possibility of her actual physical death? It is a possibility. Yes. She reports that in her dream she is completely able to speak and move around. Nice. Of course, there is no limitation in the dream reality in that way. Can you suggest something about our interaction with her or why she called and asked both of us to come? What are you learning from her? We haven't had interaction yet. Then go and do so. What are you learning from her in the interactions you have had? What I sense most is the strength of her energy. All right. understand that in the state she has created herself to be, she is 100% completely convictive. What does that mean? Oh, she's doing it with conviction. Yes. Can you guess ways that we might participate in life or at what level? Touch. Understand? A great deal is communicated by the idea of touch. And if you form the idea of visual patterns within your mentality and allow your eyes to connect and you touch, you can form an entire language in that way. You will know what you are saying and she will know what you are saying and vice versa through the eyes in that way. As you allow the idea of the imaginary touch in that way to come from her upon your body. You follow me? Yeah. I have one more question. Um recently I've been experiencing a lot of um density shift in terms of pain in my ear and it's not in my inner ear but it's more it's closer to the surface where I'll hear maybe four or five different high pitch frequencies. I feel like I'm allowing myself to experience that and I'm not I don't understand. I still experience very sharp pain. All right. One moment. Have you in this way according to your belief system already had discussion with what you call your medical practitioners? No. Do so. Not to frighten you in this way. Simply recognize that the act of doing so will allow you to learn a few things. If I'm just curious if I am allowing the experience. You are always creating everything in your life. That does not mean that you cannot create also symbols to interact with that you have interacted with before. But understand you can utilize the same symbol the interaction with your medical personnel for different reasons at this time. The act of the interaction itself may be all that is necessary. Would an acupuncturist be if that is what your imagination allows you to understand? Yes. In this way we also perceive if you do that you will also do something else. It will not be enough for you. A regular western ear nose and float. That you will do as well. You will also explore the idea of what you call homeopathic medicine. Okay. Thank you. You may also with your imagination allow yourself the understanding of yourself as an electromagnetic phenomena and allow the vibration of your magnetic resonance that is contained within what you call your sinal cavities and your ear canals to be balanced. All right. through mind. Yes. And also not so much even through the idea of the immersion in water, but even for you simply the staring at water can make enough of an identification for you to allow the effect to alleviate itself. Tap into the electromagnetic consciousness of water. Okay. And does do the frequency pitches have anything to do with infusion of energy from another source? It is not so much another source. It is the recognition of the different vibrational tones of your blending into all the different levels that you are. You follow me? I think so. Follow your intuition. You do not need to have an analytical label for now. Sure.

One moment. Many of you, while still in what you call your present physiological form, will exist to see your planet create its own spacecraft. Some of you, while still in your present physiological form, will set foot inside those vehicles of your own creation from your own technology upon your own planet. This is something which you have known will be probable and our perception is that the doorway to this probability has widened at this time. reaction, acceleration, and reactions that will allow you to snap yourself into fourth density awareness. And the willingness to express the conviction and boldness of acting that awareness out will create a higher degree of probability of your own beings upon your own planet experiencing that expression of your technology within your own lifetime. Do you follow me? Sharing.

All right. You guys I have two questions. You said that there was 12 people from your communicating with this. I already know three of uh you channels or three. What are the uh nine others? In this way you will find that the idea is that there are 12 of our consciousnesses expressing themselves now through what you call seven individuals upon your planet. Mhm. And in this way you will find therefore that three individuals are in your terms channeling more than one of us. You follow me? Mhm. You will find that the energy will be similar. The naming of course the labeling will be different in this way as as we have share the idea that you know that Bashar is not my name. We do not have names and we cannot name ourselves in that way. The naming is always concurrent with the idea of the channel through which our consciousness is being translated and is always in reference to the situation of the physiological channel with whom we are in contact. In this way, there is no way to identify ourselves for you by a recognizable name at this time. and the blending of all of these endeavors. For now, the labeling of all of our contacts upon your planet will not be in the serving of the idea. You follow me? Oh, yeah. What happens? Well, I would like to know the title for tonight. Title. Title. Title. Title. Title. All right. Later. All right. Okay. Thank you. You

Yo me yo

um I have a broken foot. My left foot the sesses bone is broken. Hey, we have discussed this idea. Has the information been shared with you? Yes, thank you. Um there's there's kind of a belief from the medical practice that kind of there's a belief in the well it is a kind of belief kind of belief. All right. a kind of belief and al there's also a mass mind belief that a a break like this or injury like this takes them two to six weeks to heal. Usually six weeks being the case. Okay. Well, I'd like to have it healed by Monday. All right. So, thank you. My question is what what can I do to help that along? Allow the idea to serve you and allow the time it does take to be a reflection of how much time you have chosen for it to take, then it will paradoxically accelerate. I don't understand. Thank you. The idea is if you are counting the seconds, you are making the seconds. Uh-huh. Therefore, allow yourself to simply go on about your business and allow the idea of all the reasons it has been created to serve you. And in this way, by letting it take as much time as it needs, you will reduce the amount of time. Oh, I see. You follow me? Yeah. Is there anything always the expression of that idea when you are working with time works easiest when you let it work as a paradox. Okay. Okay. For the idea that you call paradox is one of the side effects of a time track. Thus you are utilizing time by using paradox as a lever to move it. So in this way allowance of the way it does manifest is what will allow it to change into another form of the manifestation. Did that translate? That translated well uh in allowing it to to do that. Is there something nutritionally or vitamin wise that would just strengthen my whole body over What has your body consciousness told you already? Almonds would help. Absolutely not. All right. What else? Well, it's it said like zinc and magnesium arnica, but and like water too seems to be pretty good. Also, you may in this way find that the soaking of your foot in warm water with bay leaves, eucalyptus leaves, what you call po the article. One more time. Powderle bark and what you call cayenne pepper in the water. Usually there's a chance to put it in the water. In this way you will find that the idea will be available for when you are allowing yourself the removal of that device. Okay. Then you will find it will extract symbolically the ideas for the creation through you and out. You follow me? Uhhuh. It will be in your case a reinforcement and an acceleration. So there will not be the hanging around of the concern of the reforming of the injury. It will be an acceleration once you are exercising the freedom of motion beyond the idea of what you call your cast. For now energy will do. And in this way, some what you call comry tea, what you call sass frra tea. We perceive also that of benefit to you in your symbolic subconsciousness will be a relationship to yourself as the earth server by the focusing upon what you call the emerald crystal. and the adoption of the energy of the emerald crystal into the crystallin structure of your being so that you will not have separatized components that can fracture and break. You following? Yes. Thank you. Thank you for your sharing in this way.

Thank I have a question um then you um regarding belief systems. All right. About Jesus Christ. Oh, right. Um, could you maybe talk a little bit about the idea of Jesus Christ being the son of man or the son of God, excuse me. Do not excuse yourself. Okay. The idea of what you call son of man is what he called himself. You follow me? Yes. Recognizing this way, therefore, what was being shared with you by the manifestation of all that is in that form was that you, each and every one of you, are also a manifestation of all that is. And if you would simply act like unto him, you would be expressing the idea of Christ consciousness, if you choose to call it that, upon your own planet. recognize that the idea of what you call your second coming is the recognition of the Christ consciousness within each and every one of you. It is not going to be expressed in a single individual. You follow me? Yes. Okay. also um then during those are in regards to the Bible um but I don't understand is what can I say words that were written down that Christ supposedly said that some are literal some are not much of what was said is not in your Bible Can you explain why? Interpretations of the era in which many of the ideas were written and compiled, belief systems that existed at the time, perspectives, circumstances, desires, manipulations. May I ask you another question? Would you say then that the Bible itself is a belief system? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. One moment. You are next. Yes. Um, last week you talked about the physiological form of the demons on your system, planetary system. Yes. And I got a real distinct impression of the faces. All right. What I was curious is, do you have hands and feet? Do you use them like we do? Yes. Thanks. Like five fingers. Yes. Five toes. Yes. You walk? Yes. Yes. Thank you very much. Yes. Although there will be some differences in our experience of that idea. And you wear flowing cut some kind of flowing. Did you say something like that? In this way they are usually form shipping. They can from time to time, should an individual desire the creation of that idea, create a flowing garment if that is an expression of what they are allowing themselves to be. But more often fitting and in color. Thank you very much. Thank you guys. Um I was going to call you Dana a moment ago. I forgot your name. I was wondering if um well one because I forgot your name and wanted to call you Do I was wondering if um you carry the energy also of do the physical channels. Okay. For in this way the physical channel carries the energy of what you refer to as a gateway. In terms of the physiological channel the translation would not be Doddalia but Damascus. Um, now as far as I know for myself, well, let me start that. Oh, wait. Um, let's see. So, Da is the gatekeeper for me and the gate. And the gate. Nice. Now, what do I need to Well, how is he connected to Syria? Is he connected to all energy in a sense? Is he Is he the gate in a sense that you pass through to get to any and all in a sense levels places beings places of being states of existence. It is the symbolic interpretation of the idea of passage of transformation of that energy. All right? Of that state of being. It is in and of itself a state of being. And it is in your terms in your terms very very very very ancient upon your planet. For in a sense, it is also representational symbolically of the gate through which you all came to be here. Um, for myself to get more in touch with Do um, is that the part of me getting in touch with my own multi-dimensionality? Yes. And he came to me when I was 13. All right. Not unusual. What you call approximately age 11 to 1617 high time of psychic awareness and activity. And he also came along with when I was um the situation was I was respecting with a girlfriend. We were trying to make us um code names. All right. For the boys we had crushes on at the time. Excellent. To use as a mystery code so nobody else would know what we were talking about. All right. And so first I came up with um we came up with trust. All right. And our crown. All right. Done. All right. All right. And Maria. All right. Are those all beings from the same time period? They are all manifestations of the same consciousness in many different aspects. They are not separated. Except as you need them to be to serve your symbolic purpose. You follow me? Yeah. And to touch into them. Yes. And you're automatically the vibration and automatically the state of that beingness. Thank you very much. Thank you. Yes.

Could you say something about the nature of fear? Sometimes in some places I'm just gripped by fear. Oh, right. Uh in particular, I I am moving to a house on top of a hill with a big space and I am compelled to go out there and perhaps sleep out in the mountains. All right. I'm also when I walk up here at night, I'm gripped by fear. All right. In this sense, out of perception is simply that you are in awe of the total amount of power to which you feel connected and that is what you fear. You fear you cannot contain it. You fear it is greater than you and it will destroy you. That is not really possible. That is our perception of the fear you are experiencing. Your own self-empowerment, your own connection, your own expression of yourself as all that is. Which can I should I follow? Should I let the fear stop me or just go is up to you. What do you mean? Should I let the fear stop me? Allow yourself first of all to know that you are choosing to create fear. Acknowledge and accept it. Then it will be apparent why you have chosen to create fear. Because then by choosing to acknowledge it, you are allowing it to be equal to any other choice you could make. And you are allowing it to serve the purpose of bringing you the message you have created it to bring you. And then you can act according to however you wish to act. There are no shoulds. Can you tell me something about that message that fear brings the purpose of it? It is in one way simply a recognition that you may have belief systems within you that allow you to think that you are not in control. And so when you touch the idea of how much power you actually have, you carry with it the extension and the extrapolation that then that only means you will be that much more out of control. You follow me? That is one of the primary messages. But understand all it is allowing you to recognize is that you have the belief. Many times you experience scenarios like that and emotions in that way simply for the purpose of seeing that you have that belief and then you can go on to something else. You can choose to serve yourself in that way to let the purpose be served and serve all that is in another manner. Allow the fear in this way to be acknowledged as serving you. And you using your imagination will allow yourself to know why you have created it. It will become transparent to you like the night sky. You follow me? No. Thank you very much. And one moment. Love yourself. All right. Understand that your relationship to the universe will only leave you, if you are willing to allow it to be so, feeling supported, nurtured, and loved. All that you are ever going to discover is always going to be only more of yourself, and it can always be allowed to feel very familiar. All right. Thank you. Thank you very much. Yes,

I have a question about our concept of love. Oh, all right. Uh to us, we perceive it as one special person on earth. Oh, really? As to that special person. I was wondering Person if perhaps it was a group of people on our on our individual cons consciousness throughout the universe that we might connect with just as uh random we might run into them in our travel but you make the choice in a sense to allow yourself the opportunity to do so and thus in your terms it is not an accidental coincidence. There are no accidental coincidences. There are synchronicity. There is the experience of coincident. But it serves you and you are connected to everyone and everything in the universe. Those that you attract will be for the purpose of allowing you to serve them and for them to serve you. And that is always an act and an expression of love. And I was wondering, I've been visited before. All right. By whom? Um, I'm not sure. All right. What did it feel like? What was the experience? The experience is warm. All right. It was scary. All right. I think that maybe my fear repelled them. All right. They will never push you farther than you. Allow yourself to go. Understand that first of all and therefore allow some of the fear to abate by knowing that you are completely in control of determining exactly how fast you will move with any interaction. For recognize the second you express that fear, it will withdraw. It is not so much that you have to judge yourself and condemn yourself for the idea of having created fear and allow the experience to go away. No, it is an indication that you are in control of the interaction and that when you feel you have reached the limit to which you can accept the interaction, it will withdraw. Showing you in no uncertain terms that you are completely in control of just how fast you will proceed. So you are safe. So relax. You follow me? Yes. Thank you. Thank you very much. Will that have answered your question? Yes. Thank you. One moment. Nice.

Yeah. Oh, yes.

Um, a couple of frequently recently when I've been outside at night and since I first came to see you, uh, the sky has seemed completely different. Oh, what? There's a great sense of it. And at times I get a disorientation. Oh, good. That is good. At times I feel as if I it's so tall that if I spread out all Yes, you do. You are that expansive. All right. And Okay. And then I said um a lion which is where there no okay something um um I've always been fascinated by this but there's something wrong that causes even more of a disorientation feel as if I'm there. Yes you are. Understand in this way, there are many such connections upon your planet at its time because of what was experienced there and what is being experienced now upon your planet and the connection that has been made to allow in your terms for the completion of a cycle that started there and ends here. It is the opportunity to explore and experience freedom of choice which many of you did not experience there. What happened there? Oh nothing. If whatever has happened is connected with one of the stars in allow yourself if you wish as a symbol and this is all we can share with you at this time to focus on the vibrational resonance of one of the stars that you call Maka Maka. Thank you. Female.

All right. May um the seven levels above the physical astral that are could you explain how these relate to the concept of density, pure density, force density? In a sense they are analogous. They can be experienced as seven levels within those that are pertinent to third density and they can also be understood as the densities themselves. In other words, there is a simolacum surrounding third density experience in which you can experience refinement of physicalness in a sense into the astral and causal bodies in that way and apheric bodies and those kinds of forms that are sort of like a small version of the total version of the seven levels. But in this way, the seven levels in and of themselves do have connections to each of the seven bodies. in that way. Is this making sense? Well, it it is, but it's not because there's a physical, but they don't equate one for one. The physical is not the third. The astral is not the fourth density. There is a fourth physical and a fourth non-physical which you can consider to be astral. Yes, I must there is in the fourth density. The fourth density is let us take the last density in which you can both experience physicalness and non-physicalness. Okay. The non-physical aspect of fourth density is what you call astral. I the la last Thursday you made the remark that the transformation from third to fourth is focused primarily on our physiological manifestation not on the other density. Oh, it is an alignment of the other densities. But you will be experiencing the first manifestations of that alignment in physiological terms since you can still be physical in fourth density. In other words, force density will be completely refined and put in synchronous harmony with all the other levels before you leave it. Does that make sense? Yes. Does that mean that but the transformation from third to fourth involves an alignment of all seven of those levels? It involves a recognition of an alignment that exists already. Yes. It is the recognition alone that will allow you to make the transformation and experience your physical reality in the terms we have described as force density. Okay. But I still there's still something that I don't get about these levels. Could you go through them and explain? Simply you will find that within the idea of the different densifications you can have let us say in the astral realm in the astral realm let me simplify it this way in the astral realm there are different separations within the total astral realm there are different separations that reflect the different whole density vibrations you know to be fourth fifth sixth and seventh harmonic Yes. Okay. And then how about each of the levels above that? They are different octaves in that way that involve what you call quas plane realities and we are also exploring those ideas ourselves. I don't know what that means. What is quazar? We do not know exactly what it means either. Well, what is quasy? Quas planar reality. In other words, in this sense, it does not exist in what we consider in this universe that we share in the standard format of a dimensional experience. What does the quasi planar realities? Yes. But back to there are seven levels including the physical or above the physical. Including. Including. So there's physical, there's astral, what are the others? There is causal, mental, there is a theory in this order. In that order? No, the order to us in this way is nebulous for they are shifting to us in many different ways. So they're not necessarily fixed like the keys on a piano. You don't move from one to the other. You do in a way. We perceive they are becoming more blended. And at this time our perception in your terms is therefore let us say fuzzy. They're becoming more blended for everybody or for us? For you. How are they for you? In a sense, they are blended. That is why we have experience not only in fourth but also in fifth density consciously. For we have already gone through the different separations in our astral level. Those separations that each have a harmonic sympathetic vibration to the different density levels. So as we move up to say fifth density, all of these different levels that you spoke about will already be blended. become blended and they are merely aspects of a single self. Yes. Whereas from our perspective a third they they are still a ladder to be climbed. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for sure. What about you? Um, a couple of years ago, I saw three reds of lights in the sky that uh weren't plain, and I feel like they had some significance for me. Obviously, since you co-created the idea and the experience into your reality, what do you feel? Explore. Be bold. Have conviction. Take the first step yourself. How do they serve you to recognize them as you have? They were um in a very simple way. They were just that this type of phenomenon does exist. All right. And what did that do for you creating that realization? uh reinforced uh ideas that I had already intuited. All right. Can you simply continue this process? Feels like they there was a particular connection to me that they weren't just in a random. Of course, it cannot be otherwise. There are no accidental coincidences. Well, where is I can go? I don't believe you. Where is your imagination? At the time that this happened, I had a very powerful crystal. All right. Very um it had a number of stances in it and uh was extremely good at channeling energy for healing people. All right. Very good. Keep going. Well, it was stolen. All right. Keep going. Around that time. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nothing is ever lost. Keep going. Why? Why? Why? Why? Why was it taken? Why? Quickly. Quickly. Do not think about it. Why? Time's up. Why? Why? Why? Why? Why does any symbol transform? Well, not. Oh, come come come. Why does anything change? Why does any symbol you are used to having change out of your life? Thank you. And because you do not need it anymore because you can take upon yourself the understanding that you are now your own crystal. You are your own receiver. You are your own sender. You do not need the tool. You follow me? Yes. Now, how does it feel to be the crystal yourself? Can you not feel the vibration of energy? The resonance that allows you to look out through the facets that you are in that way through the phantom doorways within yourself into other dimensions of experience that allow you to interact with other forms of consciousness. Thank you. Will that have served you? Yeah. Think for now if you will if you wish it is up to you in triads. All right. Yes. No. Maybe. Oh, thank you. It's up to you. What do you mean by triads? Triads. That is not all it means. What I mean by triads is not important. The word and the impulse has been shared and the idea is for that individual and for you. What do you think of triads? Let your imagination have the freedom that will allow you to discover who you are. Make anything of it you wish. If you feel attracted to it, create it into your reality in whatever form your imagination allows you to create the idea and explore. Have a good time. Thank you. Thank you.

You are friends with Ryan in a sense. Okay, question number two. Um, I've walked on fire and part of that was spoon bending. We did a spoon bending exercise when I was bending a metal spoon. Was I a forced entity? In a sense, for it was the idea in one form of the expression of the illusion of physical materiality and the supposed rigid structure in which you have habitually thought yourselves to be. So in a sentence, sure. Yes. you then you I've been having an interesting relationship with my car recently. Oh, very good. And um I'd like to have some help in understanding this more fully. Proceed. Proceed. Well, I've had many cars and I usually get along very well with them and and they get along well with me and we we kind of exist in synchronous harmony. All right. But this time, how are you existing in synchronous harmony this time? How are you existing in synchronous harmony this time? What is now the definition of the same synchronous harmony you have always experienced? There are no interruptions in your life. What is the definition? Dissonance. And how does that serve you? Well, I haven't quite figured that out. Um, I feel I need a little more reflection. So, all right. Has anyone got a mirror? Oh, everyone is a mirror. Oh, thank you. Everything is a mirror. Oh, thank you. Do you mean that if you sense there is a difference in the vibration between the idea of yourself as a vehicle and where you are going that perhaps you can change the idea of the vehicle that carries you there and what it is what it reflects to you as the idea of a vehicle yourself as the idea of your own vehicle. Hm. That's very interesting because I've I've been experiencing incredible acceleration lately. Incredible acceleration. Um, but my car won't go. All right. Then in this case, recognize you may be forming a polarity for yourself based on a belief that you may be able to go too fast. And so you create something to hold you back a little bit as long as you have that fear. Well, I wasn't really aware of having that fear. I love going fast. All right. How fast? Well, as I said a while ago, the ultimate speed is being there. And I find that I'm I'm more and more often there. All right. I'm experiencing the idea. I am the idea. Then recognize that if you are always there, then your car has gotten you where you wanted to be. You follow me? Well, somewhat. Yes. In other words, you simply find now that rather than the places you expect to be, where you are is where you want to be. Yes, I thought about that today. Oh, what a coincidence. Did you think about trusting it? Well, I have this dichotomy going. Yes, that is what we said. Polarity. Yes. Right. And what is this dichotomy? Part of it I guess it's um it's a polarity within myself having to do with third density reality, fourth density reality. On one hand, yes, this one. This one. Probably. All right. Um, I'm feeling much more attuned. No. All right. Those are great. And on the other hand, I wanted to get rid of this car because it's not doing what I want it to and I don't feel I can trust it. Now I realize not trust it. Yes. Right. But you are trusting it completely. by letting it show you what you have chosen for it to show you as a symbol. Why do I want to get rid of it then? You don't want to get rid of it. You are simply allowing it to show you that you are transforming and are creating new symbols and that the old symbols don't fit. That's true. The old ways do not get you where you want to be. You follow me? Yes, I do. I I have a feeling there's a lot here that I'm not really realizing. But you are realizing everything you need to realize at this moment. Because in every single moment, you are always a perfect manifestation of what you have chosen to be for this moment. Well, it's interesting that in spite of the fact that my car isn't working, I'm still in Long Beach. I'm here right now. Yes. I must be doing something right. Of course, you are recognizing the availability of the freedom that you have. You are not restricted by one description of yourself, one vehicle. Yeah. True. What's your prognosis? The patient will live. Do you have any suggestions about how I could get in better communication with this car? Because I really But you are in perfect communication with it. That is the point. You are in exactly perfect communication with it. Okay, I can accept that on some level. But some level, some level. Why create there to be different levels at all? You are in perfect communication with it. Period. Your consciousness is one consciousness. If you say so. No, if you say so. I am simply suggesting that you can look at it that way. And the second that you do look at it that way, everything will become apparent because you will not be creating different levels for the different ideas to manifest on. They will only have one level to manifest on and they will all be in front of your face. You follow me? In other words, allow instead of the idea of unconscious knowingness, allow yourself to recognize that the same thing is conscious unknowingness, which is the same thing as not wanting to know. You can many times say, "Oh, well, I don't know because I have unconscious knowingness." But unconscious knowingness is the same thing on the other side of the equation on the other side of the equal sign as conscious unknowingness. You refuse to know that you know and ascribe it to an unconscious knowingness. You know you know unconsciously. You follow me? Yes I do. Now why continue to create the idea as having the level of an unconscious into which you can stuff something that can be hidden from you. You are one level. You are one idea. That will put you in touch and in communication with everything in your reality. For then it will also equally always be on the same level you are and you with it. And you can always talk freely with everything on your level. Ah. Ah. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for allowing yourself to meet me eye to eye. Sure. For sure.

All right. You sure? Oh. Uh in the in the last few days, my longtime fascination with the idea of a new form of communication has accelerated and I'm feeling very limited by verbal communication and would like to be able to communicate with pictures and symbols and concepts and like to know if you can give me a clue as to how it would You got Thank you for that creation.

Yes. Bashar, do you have ears like we have ears? that in your terms smaller. Now, I just read recently and I just discovered that we humans actually hear by instead of having vibrations come in, we actually put out a vibration from our ear and we really hear through the interference of signals coming in. Yes. Easter. Do you do that as well? In a sense, understand that is how you interact with everything. What you experience is the interaction of the idea of yourself with the idea of the thing you are interacting with. It is neither you nor the thing. You are the interaction. Surely um I read also or at least I heard somewhere where another consciousness from a world called Agata is able to read each and every human being by their particular vibration signature vibration. Is that is that brain signature vibration or this hearing? It is more an overall understanding of the vibrational pattern you happen to be as a consciousness. Oh, individual consciousness. Yes. Is it something we can measure in our technology? You can create the illusion of measuring it. Yes. It will be valid in whatever frame of reference you do the measuring. Just like any measurement is only valid within the frame of reference in which you do the measuring. Can I ask you one more thing? Your uh your idea that you gave us about the rotating copper disc within the electromagnetic field. Okay. If we were to take that copper disc and install it say in the midst of a three-dimensional gimbal to have it rotate, you know, three dimensions, that's would that cause the entire object to move in different directions? Does it create a a spatial potential sync in different places? This idea can be adapted to go along with the central drive but only in addition to it not as the central drive just as a direction mechanism. Yes, in addition to it a trinary arrangement around the central drive. Oh, I see. Three gimbals around the central drive, right? X, Y, and Z. Hey Thank you. Find you. [Music] Sure. Sure. You I have a question regarding a friend of mine that I was learning um very similar information that you're that I'm hearing from you. And what I'd like to know is the pe the energies that are have been teaching through him um he claims are ETs also and I'm hearing a lot of the same information almost the exact same wording coming from you and I'm curious if indeed the energies are the same in an overall sense yes for in this way the idea of any energy within the association to which we are connected basically speaks the same language and has the same understanding. Is that one way to detect um a belief? Well, hey, I I I believe that you're teaching from your belief system. Of course. Okay. Let me see. Well, some of some books that I've read and that have been so-called chneled are very opposite or are different. Some parallel but very different. That's why I was curious if you will always find that the manifestation of the information will be for the purpose of allowing different individuals who are oriented in different ways to understand the information along their own terminology. And also you may find simply that the idea is that one perspective will not serve everyone. If you simply find there is something that works for you, use it. If you find there is something that does not, don't. Okay. Also, I'd like to ask you one more question. For the last couple of years, I have during well for no apparent reason I see white lights. You got that, huh? I see like little white sparkling lights. Sometimes I see the corners of my eyes. Sometimes I see over like the top of top of my eyes. I guess we'll say what is that? Can you explain that to me? There is some increased electrical activity stimulating the idea of your sensory apparatus. In this way, it is what you would turn to be a little bit of an overload, but not in a negative sense. Mhm. You are allowing yourself to channel more energy through the idea of your nerve system in this way and in the energy field round and value to which you are always intimately connected and you are simply seeing the interaction of the wave fronts as they overlap and reinforce themselves in that way. So if I there there have been times that I have seen blue light. Yes. Is that the same thing or is that an are those to some degree it will simply be a reflection and a understanding of different levels of the energy in that way? Not to say that that is not at times an interaction with other forms of consciousness in that sense but for now allow it simply be the interaction of the ideas within your field that you are perceiving consciously. You are perceiving interactions within the field of the energy being you are. Um I don't understand. That is all right. Thank you. Thank you. You as an energy field, okay, create the idea of interactions with other dimensions and expressions of your consciousness. Those interactions, those time space point creations when they overlap are reinforced to create in a sense a realization or a manifestation, a spark in that way to allow the energy that is contained within that interaction to manifest itself along ong where those points of overlap occur at the intersectional overlaps of the energy field that you are. You are perceiving those reinforced energy points that represent interactions of your consciousness with other forms of the energy. If you were to picture yourself as having a series of network of wires or netting around you and it was normally invisible to you but another net came into your field and where your net touched that net you were able to see a small spark to let you know where the interactions are taking place. That will be a very rough analogy of the idea. Okay. You are seeing the reinforcement of energy fields that you are through the interaction with other ideas that you think you are not. Okay. It have anything to do with the fourth density? This is all new to me. That's why all right. It has everything to do with the idea of the transformation into the idea of fourth density. Okay. Understand that you are extending each and every one of you your senses, your definition of what your senses are into areas that allow you to perceive things you previously could not. Including the energy itself that goes into creating what you have always perceived to be your physical reality. You follow me? Yes. Thank you very much. Thanks for explaining it. My pleasure.

There will be in your terms a few more minutes remaining for this interaction.

Yes. I'd like you to address the subject of American involvement in Nicaragua and Central America. It seems to be getting progressively more involved there, particularly in the last 24, 48 hours. All right. What about it? I'd like to know from from your vantage point what it's expressing what that manifestation is expressing to us as far as spiritual understanding of ourselves as Americans or being in this country perhaps in a sense the idea of knowing that you do encompass many ideas but as of yet have not the conviction to express your vulnerability in the equal expression of other ideas along with your own. Did you understand that? Not enough. In this way, you are extending the idea of your so-called scope, your effect in the world in which you live. Uh-huh. But in this sense, you are not willing to understand that the extension of that scope is in the experience equally and the granting of validity to the infinite ways in which consciousness expresses itself in your civilization. Mhm. You follow it. Yes. It is an opportunity for each and every one of you that is willing to recognize that you are your government. You are your government to speak about what you prefer to experience in your reality without accusations, without demands, but simply the sharing of the idea that you prefer equality. You prefer peace. You prefer to contain the infinite diversity of your civilization and in so doing create the unity of your civilization in the granting of validity to the infinite diversity out of which it is formed. You follow me? Yes. Also, it is a recognition of the allowance of the opportunity to know this that if you truly believe, it is also an opportunity for the other individuals with whom you are interacting to know this themselves. If you truly believe in the reality you know yourself to be, the choice to feel that you must force that reality on someone else in any way, shape, or form means you don't believe in the reality you say you believe in. Right? You follow me? All right. Thank you. You actually actually Orion.

Um, I'm filled with an incredible amount of emotion, feeling a with a fabulous amount of emotion or feeling, and I can't I don't even know what to make into a question with it. All right. Very good. Now allow the individuals that are with you tonight to illuminate some of their perspective of the entire idea and the next time we communicate. Then there will be a foundation that you will have worked through yourself that will allow there to be a basis for the communication between us. For now, allow yourself to glean what you need to glean from the individuals around you with whom you share similar connections. Once you have absorbed all the let us say data, then as you are then processing the idea, we will then be willing to interact with you to go through the process with you. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Okay. Uh when you come when you first come into into the room when Daryl leaves um I am not really in a sense in the room although I am in my own version of it. Okay. When you're from your energy comes in here. Um I'm overwhelmed with with the internal vibration that that I feel like being plugged into electrical current. Yes. Um is this my feeling your fourth density energy? It is you feeling your fourth density energy. It is your willingness to understand that it is not us that influences you. You are allowing us to reflect to you the understanding that you are influencing yourself. Also the um uh one of the manifestations you said earlier this evening of of the shift to fourth density energy was lack of appetite. And this is definitely going on with me. and I'm wondering what effect would this have on my unborn child. In this way, recognize that you can communicate with the child with your own body consciousness and come to an acceptable idea of balance for what you do need to intake to support that idea. Trust your intuition. You will not starve yourself. No. Um, is the idea of of great joy, loving feelings for everything and everyone around you, a feeling of ecstasy, is that is that also part of the manifestation or could be symptoms of the manifestation of shift? Yes. For you are recognizing that everything is created from unconditional love. Oh, thank you. Laughter and having a good time are also the symptoms of fourth density reality. The understanding to know that You by nature deserve to be happy without having to do anything to struggle to achieve it. You follow me? Yeah. You are the natural state of ecstasy itself. Ecstasy is creation. Creation is ecstasy. You follow me? Yes. I sometimes try find myself trying to curb my ecstatic feelings thinking that they're not appropriate in the places I'm in. All right. Then that curbing in the moment you create that idea serves you. When it is through serving you, you will create something else. Thank you.

Thank you. Sure. Please. I want to eat all the time. I mean I'm not going into force density or do I just have force density bulimia? You are simply recognizing the idea in a polar form of the idea of thinking that because you feel the acceleration that you feel that you must support that acceleration with the sustenance you are used to rather than another type of sustenance. There is nothing wrong with it. You will in a sense level out. do not have to hope. So hope implies despair. All right. Yes. On the subject of food, I am um attracting myself to very spicy foods on a very regular basis. Uh how does that reflect uh my transformation? It is something to do with the idea of the feeling that the acceleration brings upon the idea of the increase in temperature. You follow me? Yeah. To some degree in that way. can also recognize the very rapid assimilation of what you call spices into your system and out. Ah, okay. Yeah, it's also very intense. Very, very, shall we say, compacted. All right. In an energy sense, compacted energy. Thank you. For sure.

When we thus communicate again of your time, it shall not be the idea that we are at this time within each other. We shall be creating a new, as we always are, a new idea of the interaction that you are with us and we are with you. And in this way we shall interact within the idea of being the viewpoint of the transformational time frame in the new format in which we will perceive ourselves to be interacting with you in that way and the activities that we shall share shall be the ideas that we become together. We extend in this way our appreciation to you this night of your time. And we will find in this sense that our activities and our interactions, though there is simultaneity in the interaction with you for now, will also in that sense be required for the idea of the creation of the interaction of ourselves with you as the idea of separation for a brief period of time as you create time to exist. As we continue to interact on all other levels in this way, allow yourself to blend within the understanding of the sharing that each and every one of you are within yourselves to everything that you have ever been and will ever be in the now moment of the eternal you. We extend our unconditional love to each and every one of you and to the idea of the sharing that we are together. And the energy is for you to make use of in whatever way your imagination shall allow you to perceive the degree to which you are willing to love each and every idea that you create to experience within all that is. And the service that you provide to all that is will allow the automatic support of every endeavor that you are willing to be. We thank in this way the idea of the expression of your willingness to allow us to share the gift of your being. And in this way we express to you our fond fond fond love for you all. We bid you exciting dream life. We bid you the idea of interaction. We acknowledge the creator that you are. We bid you a fondly good night. [Applause]

In this way with the idea of the experience of the idea of the experience of yourself in this way with the blending of the unconditional love that you shall create through the idea of the interaction that we shall become in this way through what was all say term the idea by var of the activity months in this way shall be the recognition that you yourselves each and every one of you have the conviction of the sharing of the energy that you exist within. that you are the very energy you exist within itself. That you are becoming not only the idea of the fourth density transmission but you are becoming the density itself of fourth dimensionality and that shall be the realization of the experience that you are. You will become also physiologically not only the idea of having to wait to the idea of the experience of the fifth, sixth and seventh densities in this way to become the density that you are but the expression of the experience of yourself as the extension of your consciousness as the physicality of the fourth density being that you will be. You will experience yourself at first to be within the fourth density experience. By the time you are allowing yourself to manifest through the understanding of the end of the fourth density experience, you will be experiencing yourself as the fourth density itself. In physiological terms, you will be expended and expanded experientially as everyone else and yourself. In the fourth density experience, you will smooth the idea of homogeneousness while at the same time maintaining the idea of your own identity.

Within fourth density experience, you will become the idea of everyone within fourth density experience. They will become you. And that will be what you will experience in this way. That will allow you to know that from that time, from the idea you express as the time of several thousand years in this way, when you are at the formation of the time when you are going to fifth density, recognize right now that those fourth density beings have the opportunity and are communicating with each and every one of you so that they as your future selves are luring you to be who and what you are. All the ideas, the experience of the guide that you have created for yourself to be in this way and the energy forms in which you exist will allow you to know that you are exploring the idea of yourself in every facet, every way, every methodology that you have created in the idea of separation and now within the idea of integration as you become the fourth density experience. recognize that false density reality as the dimension you are willing to be. And we will interact in this way in many different ways within the idea of the activity period in this sense and shall be in this sense our energy to you for the understanding of the acceleration that you will be creating in your lives can be at any rate you desire including what you call the rate of instantaneousness. Thank you all very much. In this way we exciting dream lives. We will and are always the sharing with you that continues forever in the eternal now moment that each and every one of you have created yourselves to be. We bid you upon you. Good night.

Your your friend in mind should pop up. Serious from Syria came through right at the end.

