---
heading: Part 1 of New Metaphysics
title: "Polarity and Creativity"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1987-08-19
icon: Bashar
weight: 116
showdate: true
tags: ['']
---


## **Section 3: Creativity**

As we have discussed the idea of religion, the idea that you call science to some degree, recognize that we have chosen what in your Society amounts to one of the primary polarities taking place within your cultures, 


Both of these ideas from the polarity view, faith and proof, and from the integrated view wherein both faith and scientific proof can be seen in this way to blend within the overall understanding of Simply the expression and exploration of a Viewpoint through the overall idea that you call philosophy. 

There are many such polarities being expressed in physical reality.

Polarity is one of:
- the defining ideas that gives weight to physical reality itself
- the parameters
- the borders 
- the underlying Structural Concepts which allows individuals to create the idea of the personality construct in order to be able to express themselves physically. 

This mechanism, this prism of the personality, is the outlet for the creativity which arises within the being.

This creativity is channeled or funneled to the personality through the mechanism of your imagination.

The dream reality and the physical reality are both real realities.

Your dream reality is more awareness of yourself and hence in a way the truly awake you.

The physical reality is:
- the Limited expression that you wish to pursue 
- the more asleep you

 <!-- the more truly dream seem like you because it more aptly fits your definition of a dream which you think is a more limited version of your experiences in physical reality which you deem to be more real often than not than the dream reality. -->

Imagination is the bridge that links dream and physical reality together.

Your dreams and your physical world tie together with your imagination. 

Therefore imagination is the tool and the mechanism which allows you to draw and blend from both ideas, physical and non-physical aspects of your own Consciousness. 

This imagination is applied both to the dichotomies, the polarities of Science, of religion and being expressed through the particular types of Personality constructions that have been built will either express its creativity, the Soul's creativity, through at any given moment the idea of proof or faith.

The mechanism of imagination will allow individuals who see themselves predominantly exercising one point of view, scientific or religious, to also exercise both.

Any religious individual can be of a scientific mind.

Any scientific individual can be of a religious mind.

Many times the ideas of Faith carry within themselves many analytical descriptions and definitions which involve a great deal of research into the origins of the faith.

Many scientific Endeavors carry within themselves the idea of the spark of imagination, of instantaneous Revelation without analytical process that arises from the conglomerate self, the collected self.

Many individuals on your civilization have been reluctant to admit, yet so many of the same methodologies are applicable to both dichotomies of Science and religion in the creative process that allows both to be created out of the origin original philosophy which is simply the Viewpoint of the Consciousness.

Your imagination as the tool of expressing your creative Consciousness is always always perfectly tuned to the vibration of the being that you have chosen to express yourself as through the artificial personality construct in this particular life. In this way you can recognize that what you allow yourself to perceive in your imagination will always represent the portion of your Consciousness that you wish or need to explore in any given moment.

Many individuals are confused between the idea of reality and non-reality so to speak in their imagination. Allow me to use the terminology imagination and fantasy to delineate the ideas. 

We do not consider imagination to be reality, and fantasy to be non-reality.

We consider **both** imagination and fantasy to be reality. 

However we are speaking here of what is creatively applicable to your physical life, to the specific personality construct you have created for yourself in order to express the specific purposes you wish to explore in this physical life.

Therefore, imagination will be the resonance vibration that represents the purposes that are in your terms achievable within relative degree of physical reality manifestation because they do apply and resonate too within Harmony the ideas you have chosen to be physical for.

Fantasy will also be real but simply not applicable to this particular physical life, though it may be applicable to other lives whether in your vernacular this dimension of reality or alternate dimensions of reality or density levels of consciousness.

As far as creativity in what you perceive to be your immediate universe or neighborhood, a physical reality in this way allow me to point out that you are no strangers to creativity. 

You have always created whether positively or negatively.

You never backslide. You are always creating even when you create negatively. 

You are not really losing ground. You are simply exercising your preference for what you feel more harmoniously resonates to you, to that which you desire in your physical life. 

The first idea of removing creative blocks is to simply allow each and every idea in your reality, each and every situation, each and every relationship, each and every object, each and every idea, each and every encounter, each and every day, each and every night, each and every thought, feeling and belief to be a part of what you chose to experience for the purposes you chose to be physical in this present life. 

You can be interrupted from your path or can be off your path or simply other ideas very creatively put into existence to allow you the opportunity in this way to explore the separation of yourself from the all that is that you are.

This has been the cycle of your existence for the past 25,000 years. So this is the Habit that you have even in your creativity. 

Positive and negative creativity use the same mechanisms.

It is simply the point of view, the inclusion into your equation of the idea of judgment and separation of yourself from the all that is that you are that allows you in this way to feel you are not being creative when negative occurrence happens in your life.

But nothing happens to you, it all happens FROM you. 

In this way you can see that your creativity will, when you allow yourself opportunity to view from an integrated rather than a polarized point of view, this activity within yourself. 

You can know that your creativity can choose, can prefer positive over negative manifestation. Not that it is better and negative manifestation worse, but simply that you now give yourself the opportunity to recognize within your own creativity that everything is equal. One of the primary ideas of conscious creativity is that everything in your reality is equal to every other idea. Then you can be consciously a free Creator. 

Preference plays a great part in The Act of Creation, for in this way you are always aligning yourself to any particular view or idea that you wish to express in your life. 

Does not have to be judgment, simply preference. In this way and with the blending of all of the polarity disciplines in your Society, you can know that giving this equality preference and free reign to your creativity will allow you as some individuals in your Society have from time to time allow themselves to partake in creativity in any discipline, any Endeavor without sometimes the necessary assumption or judgment that a certain idea or expression requires a particular or specific Avenue or discipline in order to function in that manner. In your terms, in other words you can be multi-talented. You can express yourself as the multifaceted, multi-dimensional being that you are. 

You can find that you can exercise both faith and scientific reasoning. You can become in your terms a philosopher, a scientist. You can become a doctor, a mathematician, an agriculturist, a teacher, a learner, an explorer. 

You can become an organizer, you can become an engineer. 

You can know yourself in your equality of creativity as anything that you desire to explore within yourself in this life. In this way you can know that your creativity is again not something separate from yourself. It is not in all reality merely a tool that you use, a talent that you have. It is exactly your very nature. You are the Creator. You are creation itself. 

In all reality you cannot really help yourself but create everything you do is a creation. Therefore in this way you can recognize that while the idea of creation is in one sense complete in that it contains all possible ideas that can ever be created, you are still creating a new because this idea is also one of the ideas in creation that you can create a new. 

Creating a new is simply a matter of your perspective of the creation which already exists, of the creation which you all already are, the totality of existence which you already are. 

Whatever perspective of the totality of yourself you wish to explore becomes the act of creating yourself, of creating creation, of expanding creation, the ongoing creation that never ends even though paradoxically as you understand the idea it is already complete.

Allowance is the factor in this way that will allow creativity to fill you and the universe that you are. There is no need to make or force yourself to be creative. 

If you step back and look at it, even the idea of having to make or force yourself to do anything is in and of itself an artistically creative idea, an invention. The idea that you have to force yourself to do something is a creation in and of itself. Thus you are always creating. When you feel yourselves to be blocked in your Explorations in your creative expression, simply realize that you have given yourself an opportunity to be creative in another Direction other than the one that you have placed your expectations upon. 

Expectations usually being judgments upon yourself, limitations. Recognize therefore that with allowance you can even allow a block, a so-called block, to serve a creative purpose. 

If you find these so-called creative blocks occupying the majority of your exploration time, then feel free to recognize that as a signal that perhaps what you really wish to explore, what will really be of service to you, will be the exploration of the blocks themselves, that the study of blocks will in and of itself be a creative exploration that will unleash you, that will unblock you. That there is a purpose to the block, and once you allow the block to have a purpose it is no longer a block. 

It will light up rather than being the dark wall or obstacle or void in which you felt yourself to exist. It will light up, reveal its true nature and become one of the messages, one of the purposes, one of the ideas you wished to explore in this physical life. 

Once again nothing is an interruption until you choose to view it that way. Once you accept and allow every idea in your physical life to be a part of the perfectly timed unfoldment that you have chosen to experience, then your creative flow will be uninterrupted because that will be the Viewpoint and the vibration that you are allowing yourself to perceive about yourself. 

Recognize in this way that creativity is very, very locked into how you see yourself, your self-image, your idea of yourself, the idea you are willing to be. Willingness along with the degree of conviction you are willing to express about the idea you are willing to be will determine the rate of acceleration of the flow of creativity that you can consciously be aware of yourself as.

Therefore as each individual allows him or herself to begin to integrate all the polarities, to begin to allow every idea to be something which serves all barriers and therefore automatically the self, the flow of creativity from each individual will seem to increase. It will reach a type of vibrational pitch which will be very much like unto a radiance, a magnetism from that individual which other individuals can sense which will draw to all individuals expressing freely their creativity all situations, individuals, relationships, information, objects and ideas that are required to allow the initial creatively expressive individual to be able to draw from an unending supply of perfectly timed occurrences which will then fulfill that individual's purpose and allow them to continue to be of service in reflecting and mirroring every other creative individuals purpose and service. 

Now this is what you do anyway, but simply you have been acting all of these ideas of service and reflection out in terms of all the different explorations of Separation, whereas now because this is the transformational time frame on your planet, you are now willing to include and integrate the idea that you can explore positive manifestation, allowance and integration and therefore experience upon your planet within each and every individual the type of creative momentum which we call the ecstatic explosion of coincidence. This will be as we have described it the allowance of all information required to fit the service or the purpose of the individual to be attracted automatically by the individual as they know themselves to be performing the service to all other individuals that all other individuals require them to perform. This service is performed to all other individuals by simply allowing the self to be consciously the most complete representative of what you feel yourself to be. There is no judgment in this, no need for expectation. As you exist as you have chosen to express yourself in your own unique expression of the physicalized personality, simply being your own path, simply being true so to speak to yourself, simply allowing yourself to be the individual you know you are, not what other individuals think you should be, but the individual you know you are. Freedom of creative expression will you then be being of greatest service to all other individuals for you will be most completely expressing your particular facet of the multifaceted Crystal that your entire civilization is, and by being the fullest facet, the most expressive facet that you can be, you will allow there to be a true and clear reflection to all other facets of the facet that you are. They will be able to know all these other facets that you are in your own eyes. A completeness, and in this way you can be and see yourself as connected to all other facets rather than withdrawn in the sense of not being connected at all, your borders to the borders of every other facet, feeling yourself to be isolated, separated and judged. In this way it would be as if a crystal had facets that never touched each other, that had gaps in between. In this way recognize simply that with the freedom of creative expression not only will you allow yourselves to already be a completely expressive facet which supports automatically all the other facets in the configuration of the total mental Crystal of your Society, but you yourself because every other facet will be reflected in you because of your own integration will become your own complete multifaceted Crystal, and it will contain within that multifacetedness the awareness of all the totality of your multi-dimensional being. Thus each and every one of you as you say holographically is the completeness and the totality of all the facets within creation even as you reflect within the overall Crystal that you are to every other facet and every other total Crystal that every other being in creation is. You can know that you can always draw from an unlimited source of Reflections and ideas in all these different facets that you see around you and that you contain yourself, and that the idea of creativity and creation is an ongoing idea with no beginning and no end, a NeverEnding circular spherical Crystal always reflecting outward and inwardly infinitely Forever.

This will be primarily the conclusion of side one of the work of this chapter.

[Side two begins]

That your Creations May begin to in your terms leak into your physical reality from the non-physical reality in which your creativity has usually been relegated. The idea of your creativity being what you are will allow you in your Society to actually experience in a sense physically experience many of your Creations that you have here to considered only to be mental processes. Therefore you will find that many of the situations you will attract do not necessarily have to arrive from the physical Universe. They can be materialized, realized from the template idea of yourself which is the creative Consciousness into and through the imagination excitement vibration through the prism of your personality, your beliefs, your emotions and your thoughts, and reflected upon your 360° screen of reality reflected back to the senses that are created from the mentality of your artificial personality construct so that you can perceive a true quote unquote reflection of your creativity, your creative self in Action, a more in your terms real time experience. Recognize in this way there will be opportunity in your civilization to as you had in the past when the idea of creativity was more integrated with your mentality, you will have the opportunity to experience to perceive directly projections of your own Consciousness embodied in certain types of solidified energy that will represent to you archetypical symbology, archetypical consciousness that will at times be able to be viewed as separate from yourself as beings, as energy abstract concrete or otherwise. In this way there is no need to fear or feel that you are going crazy so to speak. You are simply allowing yourself more conscious awareness of more of yourself but still expressing it in physiological terms because you are still physical. Now many ideas that you call creativity hinge upon the two seeming polarities of insanity and geniusness which in all actuality is the same thing. Now many of you have recognized to some degree the idea of insanity or craziness and geniusness or fullness of expression or realization or enactment into physicality as being similar but have not understood the mechanism that connects them. In this way simply recognize that each and every individual is his or her own Universe literally completely. What you share with another individual, what seems to be a common factor in your Universe between the two of you or more than one of you, is created by each and every one of you through nonverbal agreement, mental communication or integrated communication on the soul level. You agree to share a similar experience, but in order to do so you and all the other individuals because you are your own Universe literally create and reflect on your own 360° screen your version of that idea. Now some individuals will create because of the purposes they have chosen some ideas in their foreseen reality, their foreseen reality, the idea that they wish to exemplify to themselves but not to anyone else. What we call in this way the foreseen reality will be what we call Future memory or in your terms precognition. Past memory remembrance is the same idea. You simply put a Time label on it. Thus the idea of the foreseen reality will be simply that in your template universe, that which you know you have chosen to experience will many times come to you in ways that allow you to feel that you are having precognition, and when this gradates down into physical reality it will take on different aspects that will cloak itself in certain physiological symbols or abstractions. The foreseen reality can be experienced as the idea you called Deja Vu. You can from time to time as you say hear voices that reflect the ideas you know yourself to be exploring. You can see things that quote unquote aren't there. All of these ideas come from the foreseen reality, the idea you know you are exploring but cannot make the integrated connection into because you are still judging yourself, you're accepting the idea of judgments from others as you judge yourself and separating yourself from the ability to communicate your foreseen reality, your future memory into the present. It stays in the future. You keep the separation. Thus in this way those that you label insane are simply those that have not allowed themselves to activate the mechanism of communication that brings their foreseen reality into the present. They keep it to themselves, separated and distant, and they are perceiving something no less real than what you perceive as your normal reality. It is simply not the mass agreed upon reality. Genius in your terminology is simply someone who does not create for themselves the separation of their foreseen reality, their future memory, their precognition, their knowingness into their present state of existence. They have the ability to communicate in that way. Now many ideas again within your analyzation of your science and your requirement of proof remain in the foreseen reality without being able to be experienced and integrated within the present. But the more you integrate your creativity, the more ideas you will allow and accept and the more things you will see in your physical reality that previously were not there. Now many times again you have done this throughout all of creation, but you always manage to do it because of your separated ideas of yourself from the all that is that you are. You always manage to do it in a way that you can accept within the parameter you think reflects the structure, some innate structure of the universe that has nothing to do with you. Thus when you make your discoveries you will find that it will come to you in a way that will be gradual so that you can get used to the idea, but you are already that idea. It is already foreseen. You know it is there, otherwise you would not be able to perceive yourself quote unquote discovering it. A discovery in this way is truly that idea you are uncovering something which is already there. This is true for every idea you will ever find. In this way simply recognize that the more validity you give to the totality of your imagination as being a real reality and your dream state as being a real reality, you will find that your dream reality and your physical reality can blend and become one. Now to many individuals this will seem Insanity. They will fear to lose their identity, lose their perspective, lose their anchor into what they consider to be reality. But understand this is a feeling in a way that is familiar to all or many of what you call creative artists upon your planet. Each and every individual being is an artist, is a Creator. You simply have different pallets, different tools. Recognize in this way that it is not that we are suggesting you will be doing anything different from what you are doing now, but you will be conscious of the mechanism of the creativity and you will find in this way that it will be less limiting and that you will be able to include upon your pallet many things which you had previously considered to be unreal and invisible. You will work with new colors in literal and figurative sense, new ideas of yourself. You will paint a new image of yourself, a new picture of yourself, a new self-image, and it will be within light and color and vibration that you have as yet and for quite some time in the recentness of your cycle of History not experienced.

Now at this time we will discuss the question if you will state it for us.

**Question:** Allow us to know more about ourselves by explaining to us the various aspects of the total frequency known as Bashar and how the wholeness of information is achieved at the time the information as you now presented by the human instrument.

**Answer:** Thank you. You recognize at this time the idea identity that we have shared with you as Bashar will be a conglomerate of many ideas being experienced by ourselves, by the physical Channel and all the lives that have been shared and all the ideas that have been created for the purposes now being served in this time of transformation upon your planet. Now as we have said in our society we do not in your terms have names. Bashar will be a vibration which will be a convenience for you but also a reflection of some of the ideas of the channels past life and present idea identity and activities that will be undertaken for the transformation. The vibration is a combination of a name in a past life in another universal time track, that which you would call another civilization, and a reference to some identifications or names in the present physical channels Time Track or Heritage. In this way you will find that the term Bashar generally will translate out to Commander. Recognize simply in this way this does not mean that the vibration is command over individuals but the idea of commandment of the self, the idea of the totality of the harmony of the integration, the blending of all levels of consciousness and all aspects of ultra dimensional Consciousness within the fulcrum transitional self life during this time frame which myself in my future aspect of the physical Channel as you perceive him acts as a support mechanism to allow the fulcrum to have enough leverage in a sense to offer the service of allowing individuals in your Society to see reflected back to them the opportunity to choose the blending of the polarity of positive and negative energy so they can make a preference for what type of reality you wish to experience upon your planet as a whole. Now the idea of knowingness, the idea of the transfer of information in this way is akin to the mechanisms by which you create again as we have just been discussing all the ideas you explore of yourself in your physical world. Imagination simply recognize that the co-joined and the formation of the Third identity that you perceive to be myself, which is not really me, is not really the physical Channel, but the idea identity that you communicate with will be a product of the tuning of the vibration that is the imagination of the physical Channel and the imagination of myself, and they meet on the same frequency so to speak, but they are stepped, they become coherent, they vibrate in tandem in a parallel way, they are locked like laser light vibrating at the same frequency so that there can be in your terms the creation of a polarity that is represented by the relationship of the idea of the physical Channel and myself. The polarity being the expression of the physical Channel as his identity and myself as my identity. We are the product and the result of the relationship of the idea of the being. The Third identity that we become when we blend, which is in actual fact in your terms the real entity. The physical Channel and myself are products of the inter-relationship of the existence of the Third identity. In this way this idea of relationship is what creativity is all about, the recognizing of the relationship between all the seeming polarities in your physical reality and the continuance or acting upon or expressing of that relationship as the real reality. Thus the recognition of connection which is then turned around and reexpressed in a polarized method as long as you are physical, but it is the recognition of connections that you call genius, creativity. In this way the relationship itself can be seen to be the real reality. It is not a matter of there being an observer and an observed so much as it is that the observation itself is the actual being, the actual Consciousness, the actual fragment and aspect of all that is of existence itself. Existence is in your terms of physical reality nothing more then a series of relationships which give definition to the objects or individual that are doing the relating. This then will be one of the ideas you will find to occur in every creative act that you call channeling, whether it be the blending of consciousness in a recognizably conscious way or the expression through the self of any aspect Viewpoint or idea that you have termed Talent, which does not exist per se as something exclusive but it's simply a matter of a point of view.



**Question:** From one point of view the key to nourishing creativity is multi-sensory integration. Can you give me an idea of what that means and how this integration is achieved?

**Answer:** It is very simple and very simply the idea once again of knowing that you are connected to everything. By allowing all your doorways to be open, you give yourself ultimate options, and by giving yourself ultimate options you are unlimited creatively. So then it's the multi-sensory idea, the idea of balancing all the senses in the physical body to an integrated place in a sense, balancing by allowing all of your imagination to be valid, all that you perceive at every different level valid, and by simply knowing that you always attract to yourself every idea that can always be of use to you in some way shape or form and allow yourself the free reign to allow expression to be acted out upon any situation that you give yourself to sense.

**Question:** Is multi the idea of multi-sensory integration the same as the idea of the four consciousnesses that we are integrating?

**Answer:** Now understand if you are willing to allow what you call to be multi-sensory integration to take place, you will find that it is connected to all levels of your Consciousness even though many times you may create a perception of what you are doing to not be so. But eventually the willingness in and of itself to attain the idea of multi-sensory integration will allow you to know that you have actually chosen to dissolve all Separation on all levels of your being.

**Question:** Will you describe the relationship between creativity and unconditional acceptance?

**Answer:** Simply creativity will be the willingness to act upon what you perceive to be the unconditional acceptance of all that you discover about yourself.

**Question:** Based on my understanding of what you have described about creativity, when the idea Identity or the physical brain and the imagination or the idea of the higher mind meet on the same frequency, that relationship is what creativity is all about. Can you explain the process of the steps in achieving this relationship or this balance in the frequency?

**Answer:** Well there are many different ideas again. First and foremost the willingness to act upon what you have created in your imagination will spur the vibration that will allow you to see how simply acting upon what you have created for yourself in your imagination will continue to create circumstances and opportunities in your life for further action, and this acceleration of the process of living in and of itself is all that is necessary for further creation.

**Question:** How does mediumship relate to this issue?

**Answer:** It is simply one more way, one more tool of allowing an individual to know that for them, he or she, this particular type of expression can be an allowance, a granting of validity that their imagination is giving them for them valid reality which they can act upon and utilize to be of service in whatever way they wish to for all that is and automatically therefore for themselves in their own integration and blending.

**Question:** So in a way would you say that the physical Channel and the dream Channel form a relationship which is like a third point of view and that's what the medium in a way is the vehicle for putting out information from?

**Answer:** Yes, and that the channel as you say is a vehicle for conviction, for willingness, for actualization and, I'll say, reflection and revelation of the fact that anything you perceive in your reality as the product of two ideas, beings coming together to produce a particular relationship and all that that relationship creates, is an opportunity to reveal to yourselves that it is the relationship itself which is a reflection of the real being involved. Thus for example, my Consciousness and the consciousness of the physical Channel through which I am speaking to you are two ends of the relationship that we are forming to be able to communicate with you. It is this relationship in and of itself which is not perceived so to speak as any particular being but an action. That is what represents the actual Soul or consciousness of which I and the physical channel are a part. You follow me?

**Question:** Yes. How is that relationship achieved between you and the physical Channel?

**Answer:** Trust and faith, willingness to allow the granting of validity to the imagination as a real Dimension. Imagination is the dimension in which all universes are created, and faith and trust is all there is necessary to activate the imagination of Dimension into any type of reality that you can conceive of in your Consciousness.

**Question:** So when the physical Channel and you come together to form this relationship, is the physical Channel then not filtering through his own belief system but clear to communicate and have relationship with you?

**Answer:** A physical channel can filter, but recognize in this way as we are speaking of faith and trust, if clear trust, willingness in this way to support the idea of all within all that is and be of service to all within all that is is present, then the blending will be as accurate a representation of the total being as can be expressed in your dimension. You follow me?

**Question:** Yes I do. And the creativity is the result of that relationship in that Dimension. It is both the effect and the cause. Creativity creates more creation.

We thank you for the sharing of your questions and allow us to remind you that when you create the idea of question, it is only that you already contain the answers. The form of the question will simply be that you have separated this idea of the answer you already contain from your knowledge. However, in this way once again we thank you for the willingness to express your Explorations for your civilization and our civilization is the sharing that continues forever.

**Section 4: Metaphysics**

Now the idea that we come to regarding this work that we have termed in your vernacular metaphysics. All of these ideas you have in your Society created to be metaphysical, that is more than physical. You are now beginning with the blending from third to Fourth density, you're now able to begin to understand how many of the ideas you have previously held to be more than physical can also to some degree be included in what is becoming you're more rarified, more accelerated physical reality in fourth density as you will come to know it. You will begin to realize that all these ideas that you have considered metaphysical will fall into place as simply more or less symbolic, separated View Point ideas of your own abilities, your own connections, put into Frameworks that would allow you to function with those abilities in a more or less acceptable manner according to whatever mores were prevalent in your society at the time you were exercising these abilities publicly. Thus you have created many symbolic ideas that you have placed under one heading you call metaphysics to Define and describe the action of the abilities you have always had and always will have, but in this way chose to make connections for these abilities into physical reality, creating symbols that would represent these powers that you found yourself in possession of without necessarily having to point a finger at anyone for doing something that was not allowed in the society at the time. Now you'll find that in the very beginnings of these ideas when you first created the idea of separation of yourself from all that is, then these abilities were then when exhibited assigned to the idea of the deities you believed and had created to believe existed outside yourselves, whether one or many deities. Simply in this way you could always Point your finger at something that could not be, I'll say, or was above reproach, could not be called upon to task for expressing itself in that way as it was expected that the gods should Express themselves in mysterious ways through the God's creations being physical beings. Thus the first idea of metaphysics extended from this assigning of these abilities to some supposed greater power than yourselves, and in this way as you sought to Define these greater Powers within a limited perspective, you began to assign aspects and, I'll say, trappings to these deities that would explain some of these powers in ways that you could interpret through objects you were familiar with in day-to-day life. Thus your intuition, your imagination allowed you to make symbolic connections between certain objects and certain aspects you had assigned to these deities. Having thus projected that portion of yourself outside yourself and created the idea of these deities, you allowed yourself to then feel that these objects that symbolically represented these aspects of these deities could also in themselves contain the same powers and be utilized, coaxed, extracted from these objects, these Powers, so that you could be in communication consciously with these deities you had created but did not know you were creating. In this way you find that the things of nature were first used utilized as the symbols, plants, rocks, Twigs, animals, crystallin forms. In this way became refined over a period of years into modernized versions of these ideas, Twigs into wands, crystals into crystal balls and markings, the idea of symbolic representation into writings, runes, cards and so forth. In this way still you could transfer these abilities to these objects and stay in touch with these aspects of these deities you had created even though your civilization became more and more modern. In this way recognize that much in your Society still holds to the belief that it is the objects themselves which contain the power. You're now beginning to realize in recent times of your counting that it is each and every one of you that actually exhibit the power, the ability to sense remotely, to know, to precognize yourself, to create future memory, to recognize yourself to create past memory. Recognize in this way you're now beginning to create the idea that the tools of metaphysics are simply this, only tools, and they are symbolically representative of the abilities and the powers that you yourself contain. Now many times you will still find that many of those practicing what your general Society considers to be metaphysical attributes, whether it be palmistry, tarot card reading, healing, psychic functioning or what have you, many of these individuals exhibiting these traits still to some extent will remove these abilities, the source of these abilities, from themselves and place it on a greater power than they perceive themselves to be. Now understand we are not saying that there is no creator that recognizes itself as a single entity. There is, but also the Creator recognizes itself not only as a single entity but as the conglomeration of all entities that are created within it, and in a very holographic way it recognizes that each entity it has created reflects the totality of the whole Creator and thus is in itself actually the whole Creator since to the Creator that which it can think is real reality. Thus the concept becomes the actual dimension of experience in this way, and each and every being exhibiting these traits finds that it is its own source, his or her own source of these abilities, each individual thus being the Creator. And in your Society since to some degree you are still choosing to create the idea of separation of the event of your life from yourself rather than as yourself, then many times even though you may recognize that you have these abilities yourself, many times you will still choose to create a symbolic tool to allow you to trigger these abilities within you, to recognize these abilities within you, to create past memory and precognized to create future memory of these abilities and focus them in your present application through the mechanism that is called channeling. Now many times in your metaphysical jargon the idea you call channeling or as you used to call mediumship will represent something very specific to you. In this way your colloquial vernacular will have it that the Channeler or medium will be allowing the spirit of a deceased individual, deceased Consciousness, non-physical Consciousness in this way to inhabit their physical form and speak through them or to be able to sense the communication from the non-physical Consciousness and speak for them. In this way now while this is in a sense a possibility, recognize that the idea intrinsically, basically, foundationally that you call channeling is any function of creation from higher self to physical self. Thus music is channeling, painting is channeling, any kind of creativity in any Endeavor at all is channeling in a sense. Thus recognize simply that first and foremost the vernacular of metaphysics on your planet as it exists now many times will find that all of the practitioners, the conscious practitioners that is, subscribe to specific schools of thought and recognize even though they are the conscious practitioners themselves, still a differentiation and a separation between what they are doing and what any other practitioner is doing. There is in this way no unification and there are just as many, I'll say, theories for why the practitioners are doing what they are doing as there are practitioners. In this way simply recognize that every practitioner is a Channeler, even the unconscious ones. You are always channeling channeling the energy of your higher Consciousness into your physical reality for whatever purpose you wish to express it. The symbols that you have created in metaphysics have allowed you to become consciously aware of your own channeling abilities, consciously aware of the fact that you create your own reality, and this is the common bond for all practitioners, conscious and unconscious, that you are creating your reality.

Oh, recognize that many of your direction of sensing will be representative of that which you innately know but find you can only ascribe to certain methodologies of perspective, and so in this way you have created the different disciplines to allow for all the different aspects that you have created in physical reality out of the consciousness and the mentality between which you function to create this idea, this illusion of physical reality. Therefore you have the ideas you call astrology to determine the aspects of your predetermination and freedom of choice which you call Fates and destinies. You have the idea of palmistry to detail the physicalized representation of these choices. In this way you have the card reading to detail not only the physiological but the emotional patterns which you have created in creating your life. You have the idea of psychic sensing to allow you to Divine the belief structures and the emotional and the physiological structures. In this way you have created many different levels of tools to allow you to function on whatever aspect or level of understanding that you wish to create about your ability to perceive the creation you have made of yourself in physical reality. Now again all of these ideas are simply tools. The individuals utilizing the tools are the ones exercising the sensing the powers. Now astrology will be to some degree an exception in that not only is it a subjective tool but it does to some degree represent vibrational patterns of agreement within the overall Mass Consciousness choices that have been made. To some degree it does reflect in this way a sensing of the mass unconscious and subconscious, and in this way you bring to the surface through this tool you call astrology your relationship not so much to the idea of the stars and the planets but to yourselves, to other aspect of your own Consciousness symbolically represented by the stars and the planets in terms of the level of the vibrations they represent to you which is equal to the vibrations of your higher Consciousness symbolically in an archetypal fashion. You'll find that all the ideas of palmistry, leaf reading, card reading, crystal ball gazing, direct psychic sensing, psychometry and so forth are simply all the same type of extension of sensing, the same type of utilization of your knowingness, and in this way you are creating specific triggers which in and of themselves because of the choice you have made reflect certain portions of ideas that the one exhibiting the powers is exploring about themselves in their own physical life. Thus someone can easily read in a sense the reader by seeing what approach they have taken and exactly in this way how much of the idea of the total idea of themselves is apparent in the particular methodology that has been chosen by that person expressing themselves in that manner. Now the idea also of Crystal gazing will be a different kind of sensing in that the tool in question, the crystal, will represent a symbol again in the mass Consciousness and will reflect the orderly Matrix of energy that the Consciousness is in sustaining the existence of the physical reality. Thus it becomes a high vibratory tool, a very innate, naked reflection of the mentality that has been ordered into existence and put into orderly existence by the Consciousness itself. Thus an affinity for crystal in this way will exhibit High degree of compatibility between the mentality and the non-physical Consciousness. Affinity to astrology will exhibit High degree of compatibility between the mentality and the emotional vibrational level of Consciousness. The idea of the majority of the other forms of sensing in terms of tool using, leaf reading, palmistry, card reading, Rune reading and anything that describes the idea of a line, a configuration or a shape specifically will be a reflection of compatibility and affinity for the mentality to itself in a sense, a reflection of the orderliness of the mentality itself, the idea of translation and a direct link into the imagination mechanism. Thus in this way you'll find that there is represented within these ideas the shape or configuration reading, the mental thought process, physicality and Imagination. In this way the astrological type of sensing or vibrational pattern sensing, the connection to the emotionality pattern of the personality, the understanding of vibration and movement, emotion energy motion, and the Crystal gazing, direct psychic sensing, knowingness and what you call channeling specifically reflective of the idea of an affinity and a representational symbol of the belief structure of the personality. As we have defined this, the thought, emotion and belief structure to be the three facets of the personality prism, the artificial construct, and thus these categories will represent to some degree the idea of the approach, the overall methodology of the being that is exploring itself in this physical life. You will find that as you begin to understand all of these ideas, all of these metaphysical ideas as something that is now becoming Blended within the knowingness of yourself and the transformation from further to Fourth density, they will take on different aspects and in this way in this second half of this particular chapter we will discuss the effects of this blending as we have done in the previous chapters for each respective subject. This will be the termination of side one of the work.

[Side two begins]
Ideas we have discussed and the various levels through which these symbols Channel themselves through the personality into physical reality will all begin to become far more personalized. As we have said, everyone is channeling in a sense. Therefore this idea will embody the facilitation of a conscious recognition of the higher self and direct communication with that portion of the Consciousness. In this way you'll find that the individuals can begin upon your planet to in a sense actually see themselves as the symbols they have previously held to be outside themselves to represent the abilities they were expressing. Now this does not mean that you will become a deck of cards, a cup of tea leaves, no, but you will understand, you will identify completely with the reflection that that archetypal symbol represents, and in so identifying you will become one with the energy that you used from your subconscious, Mass conscious level to form that symbol for yourself. In other words you will see exactly how this particular symbol was chosen by yourself, what it reflects, why you chose it, and in this sensing, in this direct sensing, you can allow yourself to remove the need for that specific tool and simply function within a constantly knowing state that can always be in touch with its own reasons, its own extensions of thought, its own extensions of feeling and its own shared beliefs within the overall Mass Consciousness as it is transforming. Thus you'll find there will be an ability for metaphysics to become the physics of the land in a sense. As we have already described, physicists will on your planet begin to discover that Consciousness is a Factor. They will begin to and have begun to some extent to include into their equations and the parallels between the now existent form of metaphysics will begin to grow between that and physics as you understand it until the two in a sense will become one idea. Now realize that this may be appalling to both physicists and metaphysicians upon your planet to some degree, but this is only because of the judgments that they hold for each other. In this way you can simply recognize that it is the same exploration from Polar viewpoints. Physics is becoming metaphysics, metaphysics is becoming physics. Physics is becoming metaphysics by allowing themselves to recognize the active participation that Consciousness plays, a non-tangible substance plays in the physical world. Metaphysicians are becoming physicists by allowing themselves to recognize that what they have previously held to be sacrosanct, beyond the idea of what they judge to be mere physicality, is in fact blending into an, I'll say, ecstatic explosion of an enjoyment of physicality that recognizes that physical existence is also Spirit, no less than non-physical existence, and that the idea of applying reasoning is just as valid and just as livable as any ideas that would tend to obscure or hide the understanding of your own Consciousness as has been implied by the term that you have most often used to describe metaphysics and that is occult which means hidden. Therefore both ideas are blending because they are allowing each other into each others realm of experience. Both are recognizing that experience itself is the defining factor and that all the ideas of proof from the physics side and non-ability of proof or the necessity of occultism from the metaphysical side are both extremes of viewpoint which have only been created from the Judgment from one side to another. Physics is in harmony with the experiential self, even the non-physical experiential self, and metaphysics is in harmony with not only the non-physical but the physical self, and it can be understood that there really is no difference between the two, non-physical and physical reality except as you have created the idea. Therefore the final perspective in a sense, though not ultimately final but only from this particular exploration of this particular dichotomy in this particular sequence of life as you know it, will be to understand physically and metaphysically everything in your world as ideas, simply ideas, perspectives, points of view. Now from that it will be then extrapolated that since we have already from the physics and metaphysical point of view understood that SpaceTime is an extension of the consciousness of the perceptions and therefore in many ways an illusion except where you wish to apply it, you can understand that all things therefore are simultaneous and all space is here, present here and now. Therefore any concept that you call an idea, once you become aware that both physics and metaphysics simply are the creation of ideas, you can then see that the next step will be to recognize the self as an idea, and in this way each individual will be able to function as their own physicist and metaphysician simultaneously, recognizing the validity of the non-physical and physical Realms, the equality of the non-physical and physical Realms, and therefore the ability to abide and live in both consciously, simultaneously being both and neither at the same time. Now allow me to illuminate that this is one of the reasons why what you term to be your Western culture when it encountered what you call your American Indian culture could not find common ground to understand each other. Recognize that American Indian culture existed consciously both in physical and non-physical realities, whereas Western culture as you call it had only assumed the physical reality to be real and the rest to be simply Flights of Fancy or imagination and not to be paid much attention to as having any possible way of having any effect upon your lives. This will have been and still is the idea of the dichotomy between those two cultures and the reason why they met at that time that they did in the timing that they created, that they co-created, was for the beginning of the blendings that you are now beginning to explore within yourselves and the merging of the two realities, physical and non-physical, outer awareness and dream Consciousness through the link and the bridge we have defined as the imagination, so that your world can become a product of your own conviction, your own directiveness, your own self-empowerment, your own freedom of choice. These always exist regardless of what any physicists or metaphysicians may wish to tell you through self ego gratification. There is no one way to do anything. There is no one path. If there were there would only be one person. Recognize there are as many paths as there are individuals. In fact each individual is a path, and in this way you will know that the idea of the need for specified physics and specified metaphysics will blend simply into the ongoing process of experience itself, the experiencing of the all that is that each and every one of you individually and collectively are.

**Questions and Answers**

**Question:** I'd like to ask a question about two psychological terms that we use about energy transference and counter transference. How is the transference of energy happening within the channel as you from your point of view and what is the counter transference of that energy as it affects the channel?

**Answer:** Thank you. In a basic foundational sense the answer to both of your questions is the same, and it is something which is still little understood in your society and this is however something which you think you recognize as being with you all the time. The one word that defines and describes the mechanism which gives rise to both the transference and counter transference is what you call imagination. Understand in this way imagination is a dimension unto itself, and in that Dimension it is the hyperspace, the all that is, the center Point through which and in which any blendings, cocreations, transferences, exchanges, alterations take place. Therefore within the dimension of imagination I blend with the physical consciousness of the physical Channel and in this way form the third personality which you are perceiving which is the combination of my imagination consciousness and the channels. And in like manner in the reciprocal movement, the consciousness of the physical Channel goes into his own dimension of imagination in the same way mine goes into my own dimension of imagination. In this way therefore it is always a constant flux, coming and going, the cause and the effect being the same event. There really is no separation in this way. It is all one, one thing. There is always automatically polarity even though you are experiencing a coming and a going. It is simply a merging and becoming the dimension of imagination itself in which any seemingly perceptual exchanges can take place.

**Question:** Is this clarifying the idea to some degree for you?

**Answer:** Yes. So in the holographic model for instance when we start with the beam or the seed as you were discussing it the other night, would the reference beam then be the imagination in a sense?

**Answer:** Understand that the interference pattern caused by the original beam of your higher Consciousness and the reference beam of your physical personality, the interference pattern in this way is actually the dimension which Bridges the two, which links the two. In this way therefore this is why we have said that your imagination is the bridge and the link between your higher Consciousness or your dream self and your physical Consciousness or your physical reality, your mentality. The interference pattern created by the original beam and the reference beam is the interaction of the two beams, and as we have always said, you are neither the original beam nor actually the reference beam but the interaction of the two polarities. Thus imagination and the dimension of imagination is actually what you are. Thus in this way any transference and counter transference is simply the activation and co-blending of both individuals involved in the process, both consciousnesses involved in the interaction becoming the interaction itself. Thus where I come from and where the physical channels Consciousness goes is into the center of being the interaction itself. Now we have defined it many times for an analogy as if the physical consciousness of the channel becomes lost in a daydream. This is one physicalized analogy for being in the dimension of imagination. But simply recognize all that is happening are the expressions of polarities from both consciousnesses being the interaction itself, being the dimensional reality, the universe of the interaction itself, being at the center, at the source together and recognizing it.

**Question:** You follow me?

**Answer:** Yes absolutely, thank you. My next question about that was is there a place within the physical being that we can actually visually see where the imagination is presented from?

**Answer:** You may understand in this way that it tends to some degree be viewed as being the center point of a ternary three-sided pyramidal structure, the base points of which are centered in the pineal gland, the pituitary gland and what you call the base portion of the brain where the junction of the spinal cord meets the physical brain. Now though this may not geometrically describe what you call a three-sided pyramid in an energy sense it will, and in this way you can simply recognize that the center point will be the black hole in a sense, the doorway, the Gateway, the white hole in a sense, both black and white hole in and out transference point in the center of the Corpus collosum between the two hemispheres. You will recognize, you will come to recognize there is a small group of cells in the center of the brain touching either side of the Corpus collosum which will be responsible for the regulation or the translation of the black white hole energy into your physical brain, and from these two core seeds the brain will grow.

**Question:** You follow?

**Answer:** Yeah, so it's part of the counter transference of that energy happening through that Center or corpus collosum in the brain?

**Answer:** All of it, and all of the transference of energy also all of it. Now you may perceive that there are black and white holes in the center of every cell in your body as well, and it may seem to be an infusion coming from everywhere and nowhere in particular, but as you define the idea of your physical brain representing the controlling network of your mentality which represents the projection of your Consciousness into physicality, you can simply recognize the primary black white hole in the center of your brain to be where all of the transference and counter transference is being created.

**Question:** So would there be any way that that counter transference and transference could be negative?

**Answer:** Yes, by simply in this way as it is created, it will always still because you are physical beings have to proceed through the prism of the artificial personality construct, and the beliefs within that personality construct may filter some of those ideas either in a positive or a negative way. The initial point of transference is neither or both positive and negative, but the feedback can be set up to some degree, a resonance positive or negative, harmonic resonance can be set up by reflecting through the prism where the belief, emotions and thoughts then become connected to the occurrence that is happening with the transference.

**Question:** You follow me?

**Answer:** Yes, so in order for there to be positive transference and counter transference, there must be allowance in the personality of the medium or the being who is...

**Answer:** Yes, allowance and trust. This is the opening, the clarifying of the personality prism which allows there to be positive Harmony in expression between the physical personality and the initial transference point, the higher Consciousness, a blending.

**Question:** So there's no way that the system could bypass the personality construct of the medium?

**Answer:** There can be varying degrees of what seems to be a bypass, but in this way some portion of the original Consciousness must always be there except in the case of what you call a complete and total walk-in.

**Question:** You follow me?

**Answer:** Yes, and then it would no longer be channeling, it would be an exchange of energy.

**Answer:** Yes.

**Question:** So is there something that you would suggest for those mediums who are integrating their personality construct so as not to filter the information as much and to have more of a positive transference and counter transference?

**Answer:** Simply first of all that they are offering their channeling out of service, out of unconditional love, not needing to take anyone's power away, not needing to make or Force anyone to do anything but allowing them their Free Will, and in so trusting their higher Consciousness, allowing whatever will come through in this way to be a part of the unfoldment no matter whether their physicalized personality thinks it likes it or not. You follow me?

**Question:** Yes I do, thank you.

We will thank each and every one of you once again for the sharing you have been willing to create with us. We will until next week of your time as you count time bid you a f good evening.

**Section 5: Reincarnation**

Idea of reincarnation as including the ability for you so to speak in one life being human and in another life being animal, another life being perhaps a plant, another life perhaps being a rock. In this way recognize this does not occur as you think it does. Now there is a type of evolution to use your term loosely of Consciousness in an overall sense that can and does transfer from density to density, idea to idea, across from one concept of Consciousness be it animal, vegetable, mineral to others to other levels of ideas of Consciousness. There are gradations and graduations in an evolutionary sense of types of Consciousness because intrinsically all Consciousness is homogeneous and can actually become anything. But as you create what you call a reincarnational cycle, then understand that a reincarnational cycle is a product of the time frame, and because everything is simultaneous, what you recognize yourself to be now is what you always are because the present is all there is. Human is human is human is human, always was, always will be. Animal is animal is animal is animal. Cat is always cat, dog is always dog, plant is always plant, mineral always mineral, and many times stays in that specific family, and this will agree with some of the ideas you call your science of recognizing simply the transmutation of elements requiring to stay in their own category of atomic structure. Now in this way however recognize that while there have been transferences of one type of Consciousness, animal let us say, to another type, human form let us say, this is something which is quite different and quite outside in your terms the reincarnational experience, for the idea of the reincarnational experiences are distinct and separate Cycles which serve specific purposes and that is why the overs Soul creates all the different personality fragments to explore those distinct cycles, and thus every personality fragment in any particular cycle is always going to be of the same nature. Otherwise there is no point. Understand in this way therefore that you are a collection of experiences across the boundaries of one type of Consciousness to another, but in your Society you have not understood all the ideas of evolution and it is only loosely that we use this term when speaking of the transference of one type of Consciousness to another. Now therefore also recognize that in terms of karmic beings, only two types exist upon your planet: what you call human form and what you call cetacean or dolphin and whale. These are both reincarnational species with a purpose so to speak, whereas all of reincarnations which you call animal, plant and mineral Consciousness do not give themselves the idea of the karmic analyzation or karmic purpose but simply function from a total knowing Consciousness and reincarnate to be of service and act as Reflections and guides for the karmic reincarnational cycles that you find the cetaceans and human forms to be upon your planet. In this way therefore many times you will find that while you may have had quote unquote a pet in one life, you may in an overall sense have the same pet energy in another life because it will tag along reincarnation speaking with the original energy human form karmic energy to which it has attached itself to continue to serve the purposes and serve as guides and Reflections and share with that original idea because it is a part of the purpose, not that it does not have its own distinct Consciousness, simply that its Consciousness is a product of total knowingness rather than the idea you call the specifics or needs of thought or self ego identity. Although an animal can recognize, has the potential to recognize itself as a distinct individual, it will mostly do this only out of its connection to you human form beings because you create yourselves to be distinct individuals and they will reflect to you many of the personality traits that your distinct individuality creates. This is why many of you have noticed such similarities between your animal pet and the humans that purportedly quote unquote own them. In this way also recognize however that an animal Consciousness will actually first and foremost not see itself so much as an individual in its reincarnation experiences but as the relationship of itself to all those with whom it is involved. It sees itself in its knowing Consciousness as a series of interactions, as a relationship. Now this is something that you as a human form being are beginning to also experience when you remove the need for such separation in all levels of your Consciousness. You can begin to see yourself as the series of interactions and relationships that you create. You become homogeneous in that way, homogeneously acting in that way, and while you do retain your identity and as we have said in actual fact with the strengthening of your identity do you attain the uniformity of your civilization as a mass Consciousness. You while retaining this identity however can function within the knowingness of yourself as a series of interactions, and when you wish to you can apply this Viewpoint of yourself to being able through your imagination to tap into all the other lives you have been because you can simply recognize all the ideas of other lives to simply be other ways of viewing yourself in relationship to all the interactions you are of an idea expressing itself in terms of physical reality which is defined by time and space and the expression of that which you call polarity. Therefore also recognize that because you are creating the past and the future from the present, because the present is the only time in which you exist, it is not so much the idea that your past and future lives control what you are doing in the present even though you may sense connections and utilize symbology from past or future life to represent some of the ideas you are exploring in the present. That does not mean that you are a slave to your past only because you have supposed that karma is a judgment upon you have you deemed that you are a slave to past actions. Now understand in this way you are simply balancing and making connections and creating those connections from the present as you choose to view any particular portion of your personality that you wish to integrate. You will always form Connections in the present to any particular past lives which have manifested similar ideas so that you can pull together the totality of yourself that has experienced that symbol you are now exploring. However because you are looking at it in a linear Time Track, you usually assume because of your separate limited Viewpoint that the past life somehow controls the present life and that what you have in the present is a direct result of what happened in the past. Now in a linear sense this is true, but from a simultaneous sense the cause and the effect are going on at the same time. You are one event. The present life, the present experience and the past life that contain a similar experience are the same event being experienced by the multifaceted you in different ways at the same time. If you understand this, you can begin to understand yourself as a cumulative effect, an overall overs Soul idea, an overall Consciousness expression. In the same manner that you have a hand with fingers, even though your fingers are separated they exist simultaneously and all connect back to the central hand which recognizes that all the different ideas of being a different type of finger are being experienced simultaneously as you are exploring that idea. In the same manner all your lives are fingers of the oversoul hand, and in this way when you make connections to any particular event going on from a past life, it is simply that you are exploring those ideas in the present and pulling together all the experiences that you had, have or will have regarding that particular event that your overs Soul has now ordained that your physicalized personalities will now begin to explore. Therefore simply recognize this: you are in the present a multi-dimensional being. You feel your universe and all the ideas of past Dimensions, present Dimensions, alternate Dimensions, future Dimensions and any other type of physical or non-physical reality simultaneously. You are one being even in the diversity that you are, and by allowing yourself now in your integration, this time of transformation and transition to function as the Collective you, your life presently and all your lives across the time track will begin to experience themselves collectively. And in this way you will be not only changing your present because you are changing yourself, but you will be changing the past and changing the future simultaneously so as to accelerate yourself into fourth density which recognizes the past, the present and the future to be the same event. And not only the same event but also exactly not an event separate from any part of you but an event that you are. You are the event of your life. You are the event of all your lives. All right here and now. In this way we will thank you for the sharing of the totality of yourself in attracting to yourself the vibrations we are sharing.

This will be the space for the questions of this section.

**Question:** You once said that our future selves are assisting us in the transformation. Will you elaborate on this idea?

**Answer:** See that when you create from the present the idea of a future self, and I'll say in tandem with the idea that the future self already exists, then the definition that you are creating of that future self, the situation that you are placing that future self within, means that this idea you call future self is the version of you that knows already all of the ideas you think that you do not know in what you consider to be your present state of awareness. Therefore the idea of the future self is that portion of your Consciousness which already knows that it knows everything the present you does not think it knows. And because it knows all you need to know to get where you are going because the future self has already been there, it can coupled with its ability to recognize through its own memory communicate back to the past self relative to its position, tell you where you are headed and therefore communication from the future self when you allow yourself to align with the future self in the present will illustrate and illuminate very clearly the path that you need to be on to get where the future self has already arrived. You follow me?

**Question:** Yes thank you. If all of us have lived many lifetimes as many different personality constructs, then why is Humanity not further Advanced?

**Answer:** Simply in this way recognize what you call humanity is very Advanced. It is as advanced as it needs to be within the idea that it has been utilizing all the lives to explore in other words you have chosen through this last 25,000 of your years to explore the idea of limitation. Now one of the ideas that goes along with the exploration of the idea of limitation and separation of yourself from the all that is that you are is that you do not seem to advance so to speak very quickly. Recognize however that with regard to the exploration of said limitation, said separation, you are very very advanced in that particular study. Therefore recognize that you are Advanced now to the point where you have gone through just about every situation that you require to go through with regard to exploring separation, and now you are going to begin to create the idea of exploration of integration which will not take as much time because when you are exploring integration, then the idea of advancement is within that definition an accelerated process and you will recognize your advancement within positivism more then you will the advancement within negativism even though in your exploration of negativism you are a very Advanced race.

**Question:** What value has the rebirth idea if past experiences are forgotten and consequently inaccessible?

**Answer:** Now understand that they are only forgotten in terms of the present personality construct, but the present personality construct is a result of all you are which means past and future in any present life. It is a conglomeration of all the different ideas that you have explored and are exploring and will explore in any life, and it is not forgotten on the basic fundamental foundational sense. Your actions in this life are a product of the purposes you wish to explore in this life, but always there is within any particular life secondary characteristics so to speak which are a result of connections to all of the other lives. It is forgotten in one sense so that you can focus or concentrate on the specific purposes, but all of the abilities that you have in any present life that you use to concentrate on those specific purposes are the result of all of the abilities that you have ever had in an overall sense, no matter how subtle that some of them may be, they are still all there and you can rely upon them in the ways that you need to as per the definition of what it is you are exploring in any particular life. The reason for the forgetting is so that you can focus more highly on a specific Viewpoint to the exclusion of the other viewpoints because once again this is the idea of the exploration of separation and therefore this will create by definition divisions in each every life and between each every life so that separation and the idea to create it is more complete.

**Question:** Will you explain the concept that the thought patterns that we project into the spirit world are what we will experience when we arrive there after death?

**Answer:** Now it is not that you are projecting them into the spirit world so much but that you still vibrate at a certain idea when you leave the physical body. You are identifying with a certain vibration that represents a certain idea or a certain reality. You can maintain that identification to some degree when you pass from physicality to non-physicality, so what you have always assumed you may experience for you then because you are then a thought form in a world of thought forms becomes a reality. For anything that you think so to speak in a thought form World while you are a thought form is a real thing to you, a real experience. Now understand that it is very much more malleable however in that level of existence in the non-physical level, and when you create a reality out of the product of what you believe that reality that you're going to experience is going to be, you will find that while that reality may create itself, any discrepancy in terms of your ability to relate to it will allow there to be a cessation or fluctuation in that reality because it is only reacting instantaneously to how you perceive yourself, and if you change the idea of yourself then your reality will instantaneously change in a non-physical reality, giving you the opportunity to recognize that what you thought was a solid representation of the only reality that existed after physical death now becomes something very malleable, very nebulous, and that you can soon learn you can change that reality to anything you imagine, and then recognize that therefore all realities are a product of the dimension of your imagination. It is only more obviously so when you are non-physical.

**Question:** What does the phrase you can only go beyond something by going through it mean?

**Answer:** In the way that we have described before, that is simply the willingness to live what you create for yourself, to live through an experience and not reject it. By rejecting it you are always pushing yourself backwards so to speak. By living through it, by allowing yourself to absorb and experience fully everything you create for yourself, can you then create the idea of forward momentum and get on to the next step.

**Question:** So if someone commits suicide and has not actually gone through it, they don't get Beyond it, they have to come back?

**Answer:** They understand that what they chose to experience was not experienced and they will choose to experience it so therefore they will reincarnate and reincarnate into a situation which is very similar to the situation that they rejected before so as to give themselves the opportunity to recognize that the way that they can get through it to the next level is by living it.

**Question:** From one point of view the more we concentrate our energy the faster it oscillates and the more of the all that is we express. How do we concentrate our energy to facilitate this acceleration?

**Answer:** Allowance is all that is necessary. The more of your life you allow yourself to live, the more energy will be there because the more life you allow yourself to live represents the more of you that you accept into your life. This will increase your acceleration and your momentum automatically.

**Question:** Is it true that we cannot go beyond the Earth plane until we accept and demonstrate that acceptance of the idea that we create the events in our lives?

**Answer:** There are variations to this idea, but recognize simply that in a sense it could be said that you will, like the idea of rejecting suicide, reject the idea of going somewhere else until you allow yourself to complete why you have chosen this particular reality for yourself to experience. Therefore in a sense yes, you will not proceed until you allow yourself the realization that represents your ability to proceed to something else. However this is not to say that this realization cannot come at any time and that a choice cannot be made in the non-physical state to incorporate that realization within you, no matter what, with few exceptions, the last physical life was all about. You follow me?

**Question:** Yes thank you.

**Question:** Bashar, what does our Bible say about reincarnation?

**Answer:** Now there are a few passages that remain in your Bible literature that refer to the idea of reincarnation, but many of them have been removed during times when the idea of reincarnation was not considered popular enough to gain converts. Therefore some of that material no longer physically exists. Much of the material with regard to reincarnation that exists within the main body of the work that could have been incorporated into your biblical literature was never Incorporated to begin with, so the majority of information that refers to reincarnation that was, I'll say, spoken about by many of the individuals that are referred to in the biblical literature including the Christ Consciousness as well, much of that information was never included to begin with. However there are a few references, some of which we have already referred to, and are distorted in ways or misinterpreted in ways to mean something else. But our reincarnational references recognize that Jesus referred directly to the idea of the being that is known as John the Baptist as an incarnation of Elijah, for it was in your terms prophesied that before there was to be the Christ there would be the return of Elijah, and because individuals recognized the Christ-hood within Jesus but did not see the whereabouts of the return of Elijah, they inquired of Jesus as to where Elijah was and he told them very plainly that it was the spirit of John the Baptist. This was a direct reincarnational reference. There are few others if you care to seek them out.

**Question:** When we finally discover some of the Lost literature that was meant to go into the Bible, will there be other passages?

**Answer:** Many passages about reincarnation. There will be a few. Recognize more often than not it will not be so much that the Bible that you know will be restructured in a very drastic way but that this information will be in your terms published in other forms, although there are individuals upon your planet that are already now involved in considering the restructuring of your Bible to include information that they have discovered that was not originally included. Some of this will contain reincarnational references.
