---
heading: Part 3 of New Metaphysics
title: "Template Metaphysics"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1987-08-19
icon: Bashar
weight: 329
showdate: true
---


**Section 6: Extraterrestrial**

Reincarnation, past, present and future lives. 

The religions on your planet profess a belief in The Reincarnation. 

it will be still something which in a sense is outside the belief structure which usually goes into creating any particular belief religious system. In this way simply understand that the idea of reincarnation is not subject to the personality construct beliefs. It is something which exists in your terms before, outside of physical reality. In this way it can simply be said that you will and have reincarnated many times whether in your physical life you believe in the idea or not. It is something which is a property and a knowingness of your higher non-physical Consciousness and is a part of its awareness of the way in which the system of physical reality has been structured with regard to the non-physical system. Now however allow me to point out that the idea of reincarnation as you view it from your physical Time Track because you are in a physical Time Track that recognizes a beginning, a middle and an ending of things will take on a linear approach to the idea of reincarnation. Even the very word that you use in your language to describe it will exemplify and reflect that linear approach. Reincarnation suggesting that you have been incarnate before and are incarnate now and can become incarnate again. In this way you may therefore recognize that from the nonphysical point of view where time is not so much a consideration, the past, the present and the future will all be the same cognition. Every life that you have had, are having or will have will be seen in a simultaneous occurrence, overlapping if you will. In much the same manner as you by analogy may understand that even though upon what you call your reel of film you have separate frames, each frame separated from every other frame and not able to relate to the frame previous nor the frame coming up, yet from your point of view you know that the entire film exists all at once regardless of the succession of frames which have no cognizance of all the other frames but their own. As the light of what you call your projector shines through any particular frame at any given moment, you can by analogy call this light your higher Consciousness. It chooses to focus through any particular frame at any given moment, and in this way you can call each individual life a frame of the entire film of all your lives. In this way from the higher Consciousness it recognizes the entire film to exist at once, while in physical reality you are your own frame, not aware per se of direct interaction with the frame previous nor the frame coming up. Now in this way you can therefore recognize that you create the idea of past, present and future lives. Now you have as an oversoul many past lives, sometimes many future lives, although at this time of transition of transformation the future lives on your Planet are becoming less because you are needing them less, you are needing to Incarnate less. However from any particular Viewpoint within the overall reincarnational cycle you can say you have had the opportunity of having many future lives. You also have present lives plural. In this way recognize that in any particular time frame you have many lives, what are called in your vernacular counterparts, I'll say auxiliary fragments of the whole over Soul simply existing within the same time frame. Therefore in any life you actually have many lives going on simultaneously in addition to all the other past and future lives. You also have alternate dimensional parallel experiences of lives which can occupy different times tracks simultaneously as well. Recognize therefore what it truly means even in physical reality to be a multi-dimensional being. You occupy many different time tracks and lives. Now the idea of forming one life or another or many lives or a succession as you view it of lives involves the idea you have called karma. Now understand that the religions upon your planet which view the idea of reincarnation as being a reality usually differ from the fundamental idea that your higher Consciousness recognizes reincarnation to be by assuming that the lives are linear and they really are simultaneous everything exists at once. Also usually those religions view the idea of the need for each physical life, the karma which creates the series of physical lives, to be something which is ordained from some quote unquote higher authority outside yourselves. Now from the point of view of where you choose to have a physical life, there is no outside and in a sense there is no higher authority. Karma is completely self-imposed and it is not a matter of judgment but only a matter of choice. The idea that your oversoul recognizes the type of path it has created for itself in order to experience the growth and balance of itself in physical reality and it chooses what experiences it requires to fulfill that idea that path. Therefore karma is not an imposition, a judgment upon the physical personality but simply in this way it is the choices of the overs Soul so that the physical personality will fulfill the ideas of balance in which the overs Soul can then view itself as being more connected to all that is. In this way you give yourself simultaneously upon your planet the opportunity to exercise predetermination and free choice. Understand that you have, I'll say, free choice in terms of your physical personality to a point. What seems to be to you predetermination will simply be the exercising of the free choice of the oversoul which to the physical personality seems like God and therefore seems to be a predetermination of the types of overall experiences you will encounter in your life. That you will go through the overall General experiences is determined by the over soul and thus in this way to the physical personality seems to be something having to do with predestination, though it is the exercising simply of the Free Will of the over soul that creates the events you will experience as a personality. The freedom of choice of the physical personality comes into play when you recognize that although you will experience the events the oversoul chose the physical personality to experience, how you experience those things will be an exercise of the Free Will of the physical personality. In other words, if the overs Soul determines that for its purpose of growth you will walk down a hallway, then walk down that hallway you will. However how you walk down it, how much time it takes or how little time it takes, whether you walk on the walls, the floor, the ceiling, fly, float, crawl, backwards, positively or negatively will be up to the freedom of choice of the physicalized personality. But walk through the hallway you will. Now in this way there is in your terminology to put it very simply only one way you can quote unquote at least temporarily avoid this contract with your higher self and and that is the terminology you call suicide. In this way however once you are out of the body you recognize that you have not met the contract you fulfill for yourself in this way that you ordained for yourself in this way, and you will find that suicides will return into a physical life that carries with it all sorts of similar occurrences that allowed it to choose the idea of suicide to begin with. In other words it will live the same quote unquote ordeals or problems to some extent over again in this way until it accepts that everything in its life does serve a positive purpose for the growth of the over soul and not seek to avoid or run away from those ideas the overs Soul has chosen for the physical personality to experience. Thus in this way you will also find that to some extent the idea of suicide will be a negation of the contract previous to the time frame or timing frame that was originally planned, and in this way to the physical personalities left behind it may seem that a standing wave of energy is Left Behind in the form you call a ghost that will seem to hang around until the pre-ordained original time of death is reached. Now in this way though it may seem to be many years that the haunting so to speak will hang around, that the energy of the being in that form will hang around, understand that this perception of the great deal of time spent in this way will only be a perception to the third dimensional physical reality. There can be some sensation of it taking some time to the fourth-dimensional personality aspect, but understand that more often than not to the fourth-dimensional personality aspect that is no longer physical it will not really take very much time at all. It will not really seem to it that it is really hanging around for much time, and what to it may seem to be, I'll say, maybe a week could seem on the physical plane to be a ghost hanging around for 20, 30, 40, 100 years or more. In this way it is simply the way that third density perceives the time track and the way that fourth density perceives the time track. It is not altogether impossible that an individual could in a sense have already reincarnated even though quote unquote their ghost is hanging around from the past life. This will be rare but you will understand that this will simply illustrate the difference in time tracks. Now in this way therefore recognize that when you begin to blend with in the integration of yourself, you will know that everything serves a purpose and you will recognize that only because you have created as we have already spoken of the idea of the entire 25,000 year cycle of separation from the all that is that you are have you determined that the idea of karma is something that judges you and so you keep yourself in the cycle over and over again thinking that you need to, I'll say, clean up your act in some manner. In this way and in a sense you do, but not in a judgmental sense. You have only but to realize that your karma is completely self-chosen and that you can always know that you have the opportunity to allow yourself to expand, to grow in whatever methodology you wish, whether it is physically reincarnating or not. From the oversoul point of view all your lives are going on at the same time anyway, so it is only a matter of focusing your Consciousness into those ideas of lives or not.

Now recognize that because of all the separation you have been doing, your religions many of them have been arguing about the idea of the afterlife for quite some time. In this way what happens, what does not happen, what do you believe, what do you not believe. Now recognize however that in almost every idea of religion there is some aspect of the idea you call reincarnation. You are all recognizing the basic fundamental foundational truth of the idea that this is a process that does occur. Even some of the religions such as what you call Christianity which you do not think recognizes reincarnation does, and although there are some phrases which do exist which point that out, many of them have become misinterpreted or garbled or lost over time or not included in what you call your biblical literature. Simply understanding this way, many phrases which do refer to reincarnation have become so garbled they are no longer recognizable as that kind of reference. One of these phrases will be in your literature the idea that you say vengeance is mine saith the Lord. This is your quote. Now all this actually means is that the higher Consciousness quote unquote the Lord recognizes that it is within the non-physical higher Consciousness that all of the determination of the circumstances of the lives to be chosen will be, I'll say, set up. The idea you call vengeance is not so much that idea of judgment but again simply as we have already spoken of the determinations of what is required for balance. Only through your separated physical limited Viewpoint do you have you viewed the idea of the oversoul determining what you will experience in life to be a form of Vengeance. You have in your past recognized the idea of spiritual balancing to be some sort of Vendetta because you feel that someone is getting their just rewards if something negative happens to them when they perpetuated something negative in a previous life. Therefore simply recognize that the term vengeance is mine sayeth the Lord is only rephrased in a reincarnational way as determination of balance in any particular life is determined in the higher Consciousness. This is the rephrasing of that statement in a metaphysical, a balanced, integrated point of view. Now therefore recognize that as you reinterpret many of the, I'll say, Mysteries that you have created in your cycles of Separation, you will come to recognize that many of them do refer to basic fundamental points of view that have to do with functions of the higher Consciousness as it relates to the physical reality, and as you integrate the physical reality with the non-physical reality, much of what you have previously recognized to be your literature will lose much of its verbatim attitude and there will be no need to recognize many of these separated points of view any longer.

Now in this way the idea of karma also in a sense will lessen as you begin to integrate in your incarnations. You will recognize that you do not necessarily require to reincarnate in this particular Earth cycle any longer, and so the idea of karma per se as you have seen it will tend to dissipate. You will either remain non-physical and continue your growth or you may go to other systems of reality and reincarnate in other civilizations such as our own. Many others have received and do receive beings from your civilization, and other civilizations have lent beings or exchanged beings to your civilization in your past, your present and to some degree in your future. This will also be the case. There is much in the way of blending from civilization to civilization, density level to density level in terms of the idea of reincarnation upon your planet, and although you do have a specific group, gang Mass Consciousness that has chosen to reincarnate together again and again and again and again, there are always new members coming in and old members going out and a great deal of fluctuation within the overall membership of the club so to speak. In this way you can also recognize that as we have said, no one is really in your terms quote unquote original to this planet you call Earth to begin with anyway. Therefore simply know that all all these ideas are understood in the non-physical reality, and you have from that point of view many, many, many really an infinite number of options about the entire idea of exactly how, when, where and why you will choose to experience any particular density of physicality or non-physicality that you will project yourself into, as it will all all begin to appear to be simply another way to recognize yourself and realize yourself as one of the facets or several of the facets or all of the facets of all that is.

Now addressing the idea of some of what you call your past lives, recognize that there have been many civilizations upon your planet, some of which you do not historically recognize, some of which you do, and all of you have in some way shape or form experienced almost every single one of them and almost every single kind of experience in every single one of them that you can for the idea of exploring yourself in that way creates a multitudinous variety of options, and you will in the Gathering Together yourself the opportunity to experience yourself from any Viewpoint that you can. Will have chosen to experience almost every Viewpoint. Understand also that groups of individuals, the ones you feel you are in your terms emotionally closest to or most often interacting with in any particular physical life, you have interacted with before perhaps many many times. There are group reincarnational families so to speak, mental families, psychic families, individuals that share opportunities to reflect to each other different, I'll say, roles in different lives to allow every being Within the play, Within the ACT, to view themselves from a different point of view and to take turns being all the different things you can be. Each and every one of you have been male and female many different times and have been of every race upon your planet and have been of every situation and condition, attitude positive and negative upon your planet. You can also recognize that in allowing yourselves to have tasted of all opportunities and experiences, you have now given yourself the opportunity to be able to integrate all these experiences within you, and in recognizing that all these ideas are simultaneous because you are creating the idea of time and space, then when you wish to get in touch with these ideas, past lives, alternate lives, counterpart lives, future lives, you do not have to feel that you have to reach, reach, reach into some dim, dim, far away dark past or some complexly distant, infinitely stretched out future in order to perceive those realities of yourself because there really is no time, because everything is simultaneous and you are everything, you are all that is, you are the entire universe. Then all these lives are contained within you. You are yourself a multifaceted Crystal, and each facet is a life, an experience and an aspect, and that is why you can tap into any of these lives as easy as going through your imagination and trusting your feelings and your emotionality and allowing all the images in this way to be valid for you because you can simply realize it is not a matter of actually going anywhere to perceive these lives but only shifting your Focus, changing your perspective, looking out of another facet of yourself in exactly the same place and exactly the same time frame so to speak in which you exist now. It is only a matter of seeing yourself through different eyes, the eyes you had or will have in the idea underlines the idea of yourself as another life. That is all other lives are you are creating your past and your future from the present because the present is always for every life the only time in which you ever exist.

This will be the ending of side one. 

We will now address the next our idea as extraterrestrial. 

While each and every one of you are infinite and eternal and intrinsically basically foundationally fundamentally nonphysical in a sense, you have existed forever in your terms of time frame. 

The physical Earth has not. Thus you in a sense have come to Earth from elsewhere so to speak, and therefore you yourselves are originally extraterrestrial in origin. There is therefore so to speak no one who is really native to your own world.

If you go back in time far enough, you will find that many of you have had many different lives on many different civilizations both physically and in other dimensionality. However for the most part we will address the idea that as you now consider yourselves through your creation of the reincarnational cycle upon your planet to be natives of your Earth, we will then consider the idea extraterrestrial to simply mean all those consciousnesses such as ourselves which at this time do not physiologically originate upon your planet through birth. Now recognize of course that we cannot at this time in this way through this type of communication prove quote unquote to you that we are who and what we say we are. However this is not the point of the material. Simply in this way recognize that individuals who have allowed themselves to create the type of reality which attracts them to the knowingness or to the interactions physically or mentally that create that knowingness that there are other civilizations other than your own and that there is communication between your civilization and other civilizations, to those individuals simply we will be illuminating some of the ideas for why those interactions have taken place. And to the individual upon your planet at this time who do not feel that such communication is taking place, I once again recognize we are not creating this communication for the purpose of changing anyone's mind. Each individual has his or her own path, and in this way much in the same way as we spoke of reincarnation, regardless of your belief about life while you are physically alive, you will upon becoming non-physical discover that the idea of reincarnation exists as a basic fundamental to the idea of the communication that goes on between non-physicality and physicality. And in much the same way your civilization as we perceive your mass energy and the direction in which it is now heading will very shortly in terms of your time come to also realize that your civilization has been in contact with other Civilizations for quite some time as you count time, and in this way you can begin to recognize that it begins in the form you are now perceiving it through the idea you call mental communication because many of your individuals do not at this time wish there to be face to-face communication, do not wish to recognize this idea for there are many many events which you are creating to take place upon your planet which have yet to come to fruition as you say before you will allow yourselves the opportunity to experience the equality within your civilization and within each and every one of your beings that will then be a directive to us, an allowance for us to be able to interact physiologically with you in this way. Therefore recognize that there are many civilizations at this time that are connected in the activity of interaction or observation of your Society because primarily as we have spoken this is the transformational life, the transformational era of your planet from third to Fourth density. You are making a transition in consciousness which allows for many to partake in the blending of their Consciousness with your own as you create for yourselves all the different densities and vibrational harmonies and resonances that you seek to create to identify yourselves with, and thus you will find that many other civilizations have already attained some of these ideas and therefore you will be attracting them to you as all vibration will attract unto itself similar vibration. Therefore as you expand your idea of yourselves as a complete and total civilization, you have begun to recognize that other civilizations could possibly exist. Now many of your people upon your planet at this time do believe that it is possible for and actually quite likely that other civilizations do exist. Your primary difficulty at this time is in imagining that these other civilizations would be able to cross what you perceive to be such remote and vast distances of space and time to be able to visit you. You either believe this will be such a drastic undertaking that you would deem that other civilizations would not consider it worthwhile, or you would imagine that if it is such a drastic and vast undertaking that if they were to make the trip they would not keep themselves or ourselves hidden. Now recognize as we have already explained, this is your planet. We are non-interfering, and in this way it is up to you to determine the timing and the time frame in which we can openly interact with you, for you have many things to experience before you will allow yourselves to feel comfortable with the interaction of civilizations that have come to terms with themselves as an entire total Consciousness. However also recognize that just as you have allowed yourself to discover many times the previously supposed impossible is quite highly likely and probable, and in this way recognize that you will and are researching Even In This Very time frame of your civilization exactly the idea of how to travel from star to star without allowing yourself to create much intervening time in the process of getting from one place to another. Now recognize your scientists believe that no one can exceed what they consider to be the speed limit, the idea you call speed of light, and in a very real sense this is true. However the idea is only a definition of a defining border for what we call third density, third dimensional reality, and in this way we and other civilizations when performing the idea that you would call traveling are not really traveling at all from star to star but in this way as we have discussed many times with some of your individuals, the idea is not so much that we travel in space but that we travel as space or really we become space and thus do not need to travel at all. To us the idea of space is not something a volume in which an object resides but it is a locational property of the object itself. Thus if you can change the locational property of an object, you change the object's position in the holographic universe, holographic being that every object has equal potential to exist at every point in the universe, and simply you can recreate the idea of any object, spacecraft, individual or otherwise through whatever framework of mentality or Consciousness you are willing to create for yourself as a symbol to represent the ability to do so and simply find the idea that you have been calling hyper jump to be quite a reality. Hyperspace is simply the Center of Consciousness, the source of all that is, and when you are in hyperspace it is not so much that you go anywhere, it is that space comes to you. It is surrounding you in a sense, an obvious projection from the center of yourself as the creator of all that is. You have but then to simply pick and choose what vibration to lock yourself into, and when you form an identification with that vibration in the spacecraft, when you reinsert your craft into third density physical materiality, it will then by definition take up Residence at the vibration onto which you have locked it, thus seeming to have traversed great distances in very little time but actually having traveled nowhere at all but simply relocated the idea of who and what you are. The field that is created around the craft has the property of Unlocking The Craft from the third density reality so it can partake of the fourth density or hyperspace reality, and thus when the field is removed or altered, then find itself relocking into the third density reality. This field is generated in many ways and this will be something which we can go into at a later time. Simply allow me to illuminate to some degree that the field is a product of the stepping up of the energy of light itself and the creation of a planar field through rotational Mass. This planar field energy, disk-like form in nature, will then create 90° I'll say perpendicular forces to itself which when manipulated by certain other types of rotational masses will create an actual bubble or spherical projection of the field which will then, 90° to the planar rotation, allow for the effects of the unlocking of the gravitational field from the craft. In all reality it is more that the craft itself creates its own gravitational field rather than actually nullifying anything that is around it, although some degree of nullification will take place but it is a transverse effect. The gravitic dynamic tensor field altering through a filtering system alternating off on off on and being recalibrated and redefined and reformed into another type of gravitic dynamic tensor field which then functions within and surrounding the craft to allow the craft to function as its own planet in a sense, carrying with it its own idea of its own time frame, its own inertia, its own gravity and all the ideas of its existence and location relative to space. In this way the craft becomes isolated from all time space, and in this way because as your scientists already know, if you were to deem yourself to be the only object in the universe you would recognize you would have no relative idea of where you were, when you were, how fast you were going because it takes a relative measurement to be able to determine just that, and in the universe there is not so much the idea of motion as an actual thing but only as a relative thing. We have simply redefined the idea of relative position in this way and allowed ourselves the opportunity to experience that redefinition by going to the center of the self, the hyperspace, the source of Consciousness, and thus being able to give ourselves whatever definition we wish which allows us to be whenever and wherever we wish at any time and place.

Now there are various civilizations at this time which have contact with you and have made some limited face-to-face contact in this present day and age as you call it, although in your past there has been a great deal of contact and there was to some degree as you have already been told many times by many different sources of information some intermingling. Now recognize however this does not mean that you are anyone's experiment. You are your own experiment in a sense, and you are not in anyone's prison. This way you can understand you have the key to unlock yourselves and emerge from this idea of your planet and expand into space in much the same way that many other civilizations have done. This allows you to know that you hold the key to your own jail if you choose to look at it as a jail. In this way you can know that as you swing wide the doors you will recognize there are specific Connections in your Consciousness that are being made to many other civilizations. Primary among them is the civilization that you know to be Pleiadian, for in this way they are in a sense ancestors of yours and you have lineage with them on many different levels. Thus they are assisting you. You are also of the same vibrational symbolic pattern, that being the numeral five as you recognize it to be the human form vibration. There are therefore then assistances coming from them. We are assisting them, our Civilization, by allowing for the experience of the integration of the male female and the positive negative energies within your civilization, and all who come into contact with us through these channelings will assist the Pleiadian in furthering their ability to have communication with your beings upon your planet. Every civilization is forming and performing a different function with you to Aid and assist for the total integration of your awareness in the contact with other civilizations on all levels. There is Reticulum also involved to some degree. You have found that some of them have interacted with you many times physiologically. They are in your terms relatively new to the exploration of your planet, but in this way they have co-agreed to create the idea of observing the manifestation of your transformation as you are creating it, and they do assist on some level as well. Serius civilization that in their own terminology which they call Sis also is involved mostly mentally. This civilization will explore the universe mostly mentally from the higher density levels although they do have third density counterparts, some of which have interacted physiologically upon your planet from time to time in times past. At this time not so much as there will be at this time less activity upon the surface of your planet to allow there to be the mental changes which are required for you to create the conditions where civilizations from off your planet can once again intermingle freely as you then feel free to intermingle with us. You may recognize there are other density consciousnesses also in touch with your planet, some from your own past, some from your own future as you understand that term. Some of what you have termed your UFOs are from your own future. In this way you can know that there have been also past civilizations which have achieved the idea you call space flight in much the same way that we have, and from time to time they also as you say take a peak upon the idea of what the civilization upon the planet they used to inhabit had allowed itself to transform into. They are also still connected on many levels of their Consciousness to the idea of the transformation and are assisting in many archetypal and symbolic ways. There are other density levels of consciousness which have never been physical in your system at all but which you can in some way shape and form consider extraterrestrial which are also involved with you at this time. These will extend their Consciousness as from the dimensionalities in which they allow themselves to perceive themselves as the dimension from which they project, and all of these Consciousness as both non-physical and physical are in this way existing in an observational shell so to speak surrounding your planet observing all the different transformations of energy taking place. Now in this way recognize that much of this interest and much of the reason for the non-interference in this way is because your civilization, your planet, is at a Crux point of energy that allows it to connect into many different dimensionalities, and thus in a very great sense what you do here affects many different levels of dimensionality. This is why even though you have now at this time according to our perception allowed yourself to go beyond, though it may not on the surface seem so, beyond the idea of annihilating yourselves by nuclear Holocaust. You have gone beyond it yes, but this would be and was in your terms past the only time, the only incident, the only opportunity wherein you would have found what in your terms would have been interference, for in this way we would not allow what has already happened in your system once the annihilation of a planet totally by those forces as the remnants of your asteroid belt lay testimony too. In this way recognize many of those individuals from that planet which you have called Maldek are reincarnated upon your planet and going through the same idea of opportunity to destroy or create upon your planet again. In this way recognize the only reason that there would have been a non-allowed or kept only to your own backyard, however you have already gone beyond that point, and much of the violence you are seeing escalating upon your planet is actually a result of the knowledge subconsciously still for many that you can now let it all out and purge yourself of the need to experience all this negativity because you now know that no matter how much of it you release and interact with upon your planet it will not lead to nuclear Annihilation at this time. Therefore recognize that since you exist in this Crux point, this fulcrum point, a doorway, a bridge to many different dimensionalities, the strength of the connection between your dimension and others and other civilizations is because of the energy, the level of intensity of the energy out of which you have created this particular civilization in which you are partaking. This intensity of energy, this intensity of focus, is to some degree responsible for why you have created such an intensity of negativity upon your planet because you wished to experience all of the idea of the separation of yourself from the all that is that you are. All these manifestations allow you to create third density with such an unprecedented degree of solidity that the intensity of this solidity does in fact actually pull upon the fabric of dimensionality between your civilization, your plane of existence and many others. It is very very very dense, not so much in a negative way do we mean that, but it is dense in the sense of having much mass, much energy. The intensity of focus creates energy, creates mass, and in this way acts as in another way a gravitational sink, a mental sink, a psychic sink which draws and attracts many events in the weave of the fabric of mentality of all that is into this local, and thus many civilizations are interested in what you are creating as your own experiment in this time and space. Therefore you find there will be countless thousands of individuals that are in proximity in your solar system at this time both from physiological civilizations and from non-physiological ideas of civilization which are in the mode of observation and assistance when and where you will allow it. For again, aside from the idea of the nuclear Annihilation, there is no reason to interfere. It is your planet and you may do what you will with it even to the point of annihilating yourself completely in any way shape or form that will not affect the other dimensionalities.

Now this idea of the observation of your civilization has allowed you from time to time to recognize and perceive physically many of the spacecraft and projections of Consciousness from different civilizations in your own Skies. Now recognize that your government are aware of our existence, and in this way as we have said the taking back of the responsibility for your own fears will allow your governments to be recognized as yourselves and in this way will allow them to serve you rather than keep you in the dark about what you are telling them you are too fearful to know. They are well aware of the idea of our spacecraft and are attempting to duplicate the technology. In your possession upon your planet exists no fuel, then 11 forms, variations, components or whole craft from other civilizations including the era of what you call physiological bodies that many of which perished in the crashes of these craft which allowed your civilization to retrieve them to study them. These have been moved to many different locations. Recognize that though we will find in your terms the idea to be somewhat, I will say, distasteful in terms of the attitude of the individuals who recovered the craft and the bodies as to what they have allowed themselves to create as experimentation upon those forms for their own understanding, at the same time we do not carry negative Grudge but simply recognize that it is all a part of the timing and your degree of willingness of allowance to recognize what does exist beyond your own sphere, beyond your own world, will allow without once again interfering with the Free Will of your civilization that does not want to experience this idea. Thus bit by bit the individuals who are co-creating with us the reality of the existence of our interaction with you will be able to radiate this knowledge and share this knowledge upon your planet which will allow more of your people to accept that it can if they wish happen. In that way also recognize that the other methodology by which other beings from other civilizations can interact directly with your civilization is by allowing themselves to physically be born among you, and in this way by allowing themselves to be native to your circumstances, to your fields of magnetism and mentality, to your transformational era, they will then by allowing themselves to integrate and recognize their own Origins be able to also form a third foundation of the Triad of information which will support the idea of the allowability of our interaction and other civilizations interaction physically with your civilization. Thus this threefold methodology will be something which is utilized on many planets when they deem they wish to explore or be receptive to these ideas. The idea of information in the form you are perceiving to be channeling will usually be a result of this third foundational idea, that is the channels themselves will be those individuals who have recognized their connections and will allow the information that they have agreed to channel to come through. Thus in this way do we serve both those individuals who wish to partake of this information, who wish to create this type of reality between their civilization and others, and at the same time we also serve those that do not. For this methodology of information, the three-fold way will allow individuals who wish to know this information to be able to find it and those that do not wish to know the information to never know it existed. As at this time much of this information will seem to be a product of a completely different underground Society, almost as if you have two different types of reality going on upon your planet at the same time, one that deals with much information that is usually not known by what you would call the normalized population of your planet as they go on about their lives choosing what it is they wish and wish not to partake of those things. This idea of extraterrestrial civilizations perhaps being one of them that they wish not to partake of will not be known to them. They will find themselves simply isolated from that information until they choose to recognize that they do wish to partake in what may sooner or later become a majority so to speak idea upon your planet. Then if they wish to partake of it they will draw themselves to it. If they do not wish to partake of it they will move out of your Society in one way shape or form, either by the idea of simply ending their physical lives through natural death and not reincarnating upon a planet that recognizes the idea of itself as a component of an overall Association of civilizations, or they will recreate for themselves a parallel alternate reality Earth in the same manner, much the same idea again, in which no such idea exists. One way or another, the idea of interacting with other civilizations is something that is a product of the fourth density transformation that you are undertaking, and thus you will find that in the Years you know to be 1987 to 1994 will be the greatest opportunity for your civilization to recognize that you have been in contact with other Civilizations for quite some time. It will be an opportunity for you to communicate directly with the factions of yourselves that are your media and are your government and to talk with them about the idea as to not whether or not this information exists but how to release the information for the benefit of all concerned. This information does exist. You are aware of it. Your government are aware of it. Your media are aware of it. Allow it to be all right for them to recognize that you, the population, is aware of it and that you can together create an understanding that will not deprive anyone of their own personal power but only of that false power which people feel they may need to hold over other individuals but which is not really power at all but only an admission of the feeling of the creation of their own helplessness and powerlessness. In this way grant them the opportunity to recognize that it is the sharing and the blending of all this idea of the interaction of your civilization with other civilizations which will grant each being within all civilizations their own power, their own self-empowered awareness, allowance and freedom of choice to partake of and participate in yet one more way that all that is has of expressing itself, one more method of blending Consciousness and exploring the Multiverse that each and every being carries within him or herself. In this way you will come to realize that you will at first encounter many types of human form life similar to your own, some almost identical but all recognizable to some degree as what you would call humanoid or variations that will allow you some basis for recognizing commonality. This will be because this is the expression form 90% in third density, the idea you would call mostly that head, the hands, the arms, two legs, the body upright walking, the eyes to a great degree, the ears, nose, mouth. There will be a wide range of variant in the Extraterrestrial civilizations that are already in contact with you and many of the ones you will discover interacting with on your own as you expand yourself outward and join the association of all the civilizations that already interact with us and many different dimensional density levels of consciousness. Recognize that in your own good time you will become quote unquote the UFOs of other civilizations. You will be able to interact with them and share with them according to what they wish to share. The idea once again that the Multiverse is vast, infinite, diverse and able to communicate with every portion of itself. Space and time not being barriers to any form of mental, spiritual, emotional or physical contact in any way shape and form. This you will learn. Your scientists will come to realize that all the idea of space and time that they have been looking at as barriers to prevent this type of communication are all Illusions, are all simple perspectives and perceptions based upon once again the continuation of the habitual ritual of separating yourself from the all that is that you are. Blending your Consciousness together will allow you to know and recognize the universe and all civilizations existing right here, right now in the same space, the same basic Place, only the perspective that differs, only the facet that you choose to look through will create the illusion that all is separate, far ranging, widely dispersed. Now this is not to say that this is not valid as a tool and will not teach you much about the ideas that you have created for yourself, the idea of the physical universe, but you will recognize that it is a symbol for all that is contained within you. And allow me to say in this way when you allow yourself your own true space travel, you will recognize that traveling through space and time is only traveling within yourselves, within your Consciousness, and it is within your Consciousness that you will always be able to meet any and all other civilizations as you allow yourselves the opportunity to move from Individual to family to tribal to Village to City to state to Country to world to system to Stellar to Interstellar to Galactic to pangalactic to Universal to multi-dimensional to beingness, you will still once again always retain the idea of individuality that allows you to express all these levels of unification within the infinite diversity of the all that is that you all are.

In the next section of the work we will thus unify the idea of that beingness in what we call the template realization which at this point is the foundational edge of your understanding of the connection of your Consciousness to the physical Universe. In this way allow us to extend to you the opportunity to see other civilizations not so much as extraterrestrial, not so much yourselves as terrestrial, but simply that each civilization is another way of expressing the multitudinous ways that all that is can express itself. We are all different aspects of the same over Soul Consciousness, and in this way that realization alone together with the realization of you containing all the space and time that you perceive to be outside yourself will allow you to identify all Consciousness that is in touch with you and all communication coming from them to you.

We will before your century is out have interacted more physically with your planet. You will recognize this if you continue along the same path that you are creating now, and during the transformation from this point forward through the next 30 to 50 of your years, interaction on that level will become quite commonplace, though seemingly science fiction to you now. Recognize that much of what you have previously considered to be science fiction is now to you quite mundane. In this way we are not saying you will lose your excitement but that you will simply recognize that the interaction of many different civilizations is quite natural, and it will become natural to you and it will seem to you that you cannot imagine how you could have thought any other way. As many of the things you now have in your civilization seem so natural to your children, they cannot imagine it having been any other way.

We thank you for this sharing in this section of the work. We will allow you to recognize that your civilization and our civilization and all civilizations with whom you are in touch are together the sharing that continues forever.

**Question:** From one extraterrestrial Source, we are not ready as a world body to trade and communicate with other planetary beings. Do you agree with this point of view?

**Answer:** Recognize that it is very obvious that this is so in the sense that the majority of individuals upon your planet really do not want to meet with the idea that you call extraterrestrials or they would already vibrate in accord to that reality, and we and other civilizations would already be able to be allowed upon your planet without causing disruption. When you consider yourself to be equal to us and other civilizations that you now consider to be greater or more than yourselves, then you will create the opportunity for equal sharing. Recognize that the idea of beings that are integrated wholly within themselves generate a field so to speak of energy round and about themselves that reflect this integration. Individuals upon your planet who are not allowing themselves to be integrated thus will find that if they were to come into contact with a being that had an integrated field, they would so to speak be swept up in the more accelerated field and for lack of better term they would be forced to face Those portions of their personality that they have not chosen to integrate into their own field, and it is that that would cause the fear and the psychic shock that would be disruptive to your Society. For when individuals are forced to face portions of themselves they are not willing to look at, it will be disruptive to the psyche. Thus we will wait the time when you allow yourself to blend all portions of your Consciousness equally so that you can view other Consciousness as equal to your own and ease the idea of the transition and blending between yourself and another Society.

**Question:** Since gestures and symbols are Universal, are there certain gestures and symbols that one could learn to facilitate the communication with the Extraterrestrial Consciousness?

**Answer:** Now recognize again that the integration in and of itself will allow you to be emotionally connected to any other being, and in that way gestures are not necessary. You will simply know each other. You follow me?

**Question:** Yes, so rather than a kind of visual gesture it would be more telepathic in a sense?

**Answer:** Although again the idea you call telepathy is still to some degree a separation idea, whereas what I'm describing now is more in the line of Simply direct integration. For even though telepathy is an emotional connection, integration is something which removes even the concept that there is a connection that needs to be made. It is simply the Oneness of everything and therefore the automatic knowingness of anything that is desired to be communicated.

**Question:** Is it true that the Red Indian and the Extraterrestrial consciousnesses are similar?

**Answer:** Some simply recognize that what is similar is that what you call your American Indian culture understood and to some degree still understands that their nonphysical dream reality is every bit as real as the physical reality and they live in both, and this is the product of the same type of integration that many extraterrestrial societies allow themselves to partake in as well. That is why American Indian culture was more openly, more consciously in contact with many extraterrestrial civilizations during the same time that what you call your western civilization was unaware that there existed other planets at all. For the American Indian was able to step through the dimensional barrier and simply with that sense of integration of self come into contact with other Consciousness which inhabits those different levels. It was for them quite a matter of course, quite a normal, natural day-to-day idea.

**Question:** Is that still true of the American Indian culture or have they been westernized to a point where that is no longer true for them?

**Answer:** It is basically foundationally still true, although this westernization idea has caused them not so much the idea to adapt themselves out of it although that has happened as well, but much of the idea of being surrounded by something that they cannot adapt to has caused them to, I say, create the idea of break down in communication within themselves and so conversely break down in the ability to step through those doorways. Some still retain this awareness, so some still are able to live in an integrated way between yes. And because of the blending of your Western Civilization with the American Indian culture, now also some of your Western Civilization members also have learned this idea through interaction with the American Indian culture.

**Question:** There appears to be a growing Mass Consciousness idea that beings from other planetary civilizations are within Earth's electromagnetic field at this time to neutralize to a degree the dominance of negativity. Would you comment on this idea?

**Answer:** Now only to an extent is this accurate. If you will simply remove from that statement and from that equation all references that have to do with the idea that someone else is taking responsibility away from you for your Creations, that someone else is acting as a so-called savior, then what you will be left within the equation is the understanding that we are equally involved with you in the co-creation of the idea of a balanced electromagnetic field. There is in this way the idea of more awareness of our involvement in this co-creation, and so it seems to you that we are more actively doing something about it. But when you become more aware of more of your Consciousness, you will recognize that you have been playing a very active part all along equally with us.

**Question:** Bashar, we understand that at one time what appears to be Atlantis used anti-gravity machines to enable us to build structures and travel freely without polluting the planet. Will you explain that method and do we have that potential in the earth's near future?

**Answer:** Yes you do. Now actually you have recreated some of it already, but because of the situation that you have created with your, I say, political structure, much of this information has been suppressed. Now some of the methodology involved the manipulation of light, the rendering and acceleration of this idea and stepping up of this light into different vibratory frequencies that would resonate in specific harmonics to the Earth's field and cause there to be a negation of the gravitic tensor field. Simply in this way the majority of the science of that which you call Atlantis was of the nature of the creation through crystals and light and metals of various tunings or tonings or patterns of vibration because they recognize that everything in physical reality including what you call the gravitic field is a product of the idea of Consciousness expressing itself in a physical medium through the mechanism of vibration. Thus you'll find that in your own research, the exploration of the vibration of electromagnetism and light through crystalline structures and conductors and also experimenting with conductors that are created to be rotational masses, these will be the directions that will allow you to recognize the ability to adjust the gravitic dynamic tensor field in ways that will give you what you have colloquially called anti-gravity.

**Question:** Is this a technique that is already utilized by the Extraterrestrial consciousnesses?

**Answer:** Well yes. Now you will find that there are variations from civilization to civilization in their application, and in your terms some applications will be so to speak more sophisticated than others. All those civilizations have had their learning experience, have started from one basic idea as you have, as you will, and in this way have allowed themselves to simply create this idea in many different ways in the same manner that you have explored different ways of water, land and air travel, even though the principles are basically the same. You have a great deal of variation in the methodology that you can apply to any one of these particular modes of travel.

**Question:** There has been much information concerning the evacuation of planet Earth by extraterrestrial spacecraft during a transitional upheaval in our transformational time span. During this time it has been said that those who survive will access a vast amount of knowledge on all levels and will assist in rebuilding the planet.

**Answer:** Now understand once again that many of these sensings or predictions sometimes are created out of the idea that you do not recognize the level in which you are also participating in this idea. No one is going to save you because you do not need saving. You are God, all that is, and in this way simply recognize that the idea of this so-called shift and transformation will be that you with us will create the ability to form an interaction by already allowing yourself to shift into fourth density. You will simply be another world all together. There may be certain aspects that you retain symbolically that you may want to rebuild, but the idea of any so-called Devastation in no way shape or form at the present understanding level of yourself has anything to do with the amount of Devastation that you thought was going to happen when the so-called prediction was first made. Remember that predictions are not actually predictions of the future. They are sensings of the situation in the present at the time the prediction is made that has the most amount of energy behind it, and if that idea changes then so does the prediction or at least the methodologies within the prediction. What is basically true about the predictions is that there will be shiftings, there will be Transformations, but your ancient predictions because it only understood the idea of the transformation through the separation it had placed upon itself usually predicted dire consequences on a global scale. Now if the transformation had occurred at that time, then that would have been the way in which you would have experienced it, a trial by fire. But now that you are allowing yourself to integrate in this shifting, you can know that there is no need to go through trial by fire in order to simply know you can have whatever reality you allow yourself to be. Thus your transformation now can be one more enlightened, more joyful, more uplifting in that sense of the term rather than having to be lifted up out of a sticky situation. You will uplift yourselves, and we will meet you on that level, and that is what is being referred to as the upliftment.

**Question:** So the idea of the 144,000 being taken up is a symbol of something that was a Past prediction?

**Answer:** Yes, and even then it was more symbolic than literal. So when the idea of the Harvest in June which is when this idea is to take place, that's also just an idea of a symbol. There have been upon your planet many ideas you call harvests. Again simply if you recognize it as simply the changing of everything, then you can recognize that what you perceive to be the Harvest is simply the movement of a wave over the entire planet. It is a harvesting of equal vibration as one vibration encompasses the planet, then all who are of like vibration go with it. Those that are not stay in the reality that they are vibrating too. Thus you are creating parallel universes of yourself, and in this way individuals who are not of the same vibration will simply not be perceived any longer. They will move themselves into the vibration that they identify with. Others will move themselves into other vibratory levels, and then individuals will remove themselves from each other's reality in a various number of ways. Some may simply just disappear as some have. Some may simply physically die in ways that will allow you to recognize they will not reincarnate into your reality but will reincarnate into the vibration that they have just left. And in this way over a short period of time will be the opportunity simply for the reality that you have chosen to be to only have as its equal radiant vibration the reincarnational beings coming in that represent an equality to that vibration.

