---
title: "The Same Road"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1987-05-07
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 165
tags: ['energy gates']
---



This refers to the idea that we are now forming connections across what you call your ocean to other communities, other cultures upon your planet.

This journey, this endeavor will form links and bridges and connections to many points of receptivity in those other cultures upon your planet that are in your terms primed to match their vibratory resonance with you. That you are primed to match your vibratory resonance with them.

This can sew up, if you will, the net, the matrix, the web of intercommunication, tie together the very fabric of your individual mentality. Allow for synchronization of the wavelengths of your vibratory mentality so that you can begin to recognize that even though there may remain for quite some time diversity within your respective cultures, there are many levels upon which you can interact in a very unified manner.

on those levels you are all in your own way walking down the same road. For you are all the same planet. And even though there are many different ways in which many individuals within a respective culture and the different respective cultures upon your planet may decide to experience the transformation in your own way. Even though you are your own path, you are still a part of the same overall road of the transformation of your world. So you are all walking down the same road in your own different beautifully creative way.

The timing is now such that unifications between what has for a long time seemed to be vast diversities within cultures that seem to be unreconcilable now can be linked. Now can be seen for the commonality within them while maintaining the degree of difference that will allow you to appreciate the creativity in any respective culture in having created such a beautifully different way to experience the same road that you are experiencing. More and more merging, more and more blending and more and more synchronicity therefore can begin to occur between your respective cultures.

You will then begin to truly feel, as you say from time to time, that it is a very, very, very, very small world. That you will find yourself interacting with individuals from various parts of your globe as if you all lived in quite the same neighborhood. You will be coming and going. People will be coming and going, interacting, interplaying much more than they do now upon your world, allowing you to truly know nothing is really very far away. That everything really is right where you are. And that all interactions that represent whatever synchronicity and whatever vibratory awareness you are on will attract all the necessary individuals regardless of where they may be physically upon your world.

There is nothing that functions as a barrier. Time and space, distance, different cultures, these things are melting within you. And so they melt in your exterior reality. You will simply find that you will be with whom you need to be when you need to be with them. Regardless of where they live, regardless of where you live, you will simply find yourself coincidentally once again being in the locations that represent the energy of the vibration you are living at that point.

Many individuals in different cultures are of like heart, like mind, like soul. That they are beginning to awaken to the fact that you are walking one road even if you are doing it in your own unique way.

That awareness that you are all generally moving in the same direction will lock you in step, not rigidize you, not unitize you at the cost of your individuality, but will propel you in a particular directional momentum that will expand your ability to be the full individual you are side by side with every other fully expressed and unique individual upon your planet.

You can once again truly begin now at this timing to gain an experiential understanding that all the unity you will experience in your world will come from the equality and validity that you will grant to all the diversity. 

All the different ways, all the different personas, all the different perspectives that your world has to offer. You are a rich and deep well of experience and information.

We will take the opportunity therefore to reestablish in a different way when the channel returns to the present physical local. The solidification of that link and the transference of that energy, your energy to them, their energy to you by functioning as a gate, as a doorway through which your energy and their energy on the other side of your ocean can flow to and fro. 

Allow each and every one of you to open up to whatever portion or aspect of that energy you desire to know that your ocean is no span, no barrier. That it is simply a representation of the life of your world and that there is much life within that ocean that is a part of this interaction and a part of this exchange.

Even though the consciousness you may recognize as an aspect of my consciousness will still communicate to you through another channel next week of your time. 

There will also be within the established frame of reference of the number of your days that this channel will be across your ocean a specific mechanism being employed. A specific timing being played out and a specific connection being formed so that we will reestablish that compact in what is in your terms a very magical number of days.

This physical channel will return and be present among you again in your own local in thirteen of your days and that number has significance for us as a very magical gate. We know you are sensitive to the idea of the number thirteen representing certain vibrational relationships. Although most of you have created this idea in your terms to be unlucky, recognize your energy, your calling of that symbol as unlucky is only a subconscious recognition that the mathematical vibration represents the opening of many gates within you. And it is only the fear at what you will find that has made that seem unlucky to you.

It represents the opening of a multiple dimension of gates within you. And there will be representation with more acceleration from that point forward in a very specific way with regard to forming new associations upon your world, shrinking your world so that you can meet anyone anywhere you wish anytime, to draw all individuals into your sphere of influence and vice versa that are required to be the path you have chosen to be for you and for them.

So allow yourself in this passage of thirteen days to not think of that symbol of that vibration as unlocking. There really being no such thing as luck anyway since you create your reality. Luck is simply what you may recognize as a conscious awareness of the fact that you are now functioning within positive synchronicity, that you are allowing the universe to show you that everything is connected and falls into place.

Shimi, kashimiro shim keni, shakashimi. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen in our ancient language.

Allow yourself to recognize that through that gate is a strong connection to all of your pasts, all of your futures, and all of your counterparts. Be they in your immediate physical local or their neighbors across the sea. You will attract yourselves together like magnets, for thirteen is the magnetization number.

At this time, we therefore once again extend our deepest appreciation to you for the gift of your sharing, for your willingness to bring your civilization closer to our respective civilizations within the association of worlds. And we ask you now, how may I serve you?

Good evening, Bashar.

Unto you, how are you?

Perfect. I don't think anybody that knows me would believe this, but I'm almost speechless. The synchronicity of what you are saying tonight and what I've been going through this week. I was like that racehorse that was trying to get out of the gate and then I was a home stretch kid and now what you're saying tonight just ties in with what went on this week.

Do you remember a couple of weeks ago I told you I had channeled some music? And then in my home I had a vision and I saw children entering and getting on the stage and singing this international peace anthem. I was encouraged to try to do something about that. Yes, that's what they said. So, I said if it's important, I will do it. And that's what I've done. I've contacted somebody and it's in the process of happening. Thank you.

But last night, just when I thought I couldn't hold any more excitement, I was speaking to somebody on the phone who has been working for four years on a project, a peace project. Nice. And has recently come back from Washington and was speaking to somebody from the Soviet Union called Vladimir Posner. And there's a number of things that you said tonight that tie in with what we are going to do, which is to connect with other nations and people in those nations, not political, not the government, and come together to show what we have in common, not anything that is divisive.

And it is an expansion upon what you have termed your peace child movement. Yes. And it's going to come from the children. I know that. And I am so excited about this because it's not like one of my manuscripts that I have done and I put away in a drawer somewhere or something. This is something that came to me in the middle of the night and woke me up and I told you I wrote it down and it is through me that this is going to happen. So I am here as the co-creator.

I haven't... There is nothing near about being a co-creator. Oh, okay. But I wanted to share with you that I was speaking to someone Tuesday night and we were talking about this project and he said, "Amy, don't say can't. Eliminate that from your vocabulary because you don't have any limitations. Go for it." So, I did and I'm meeting with someone tomorrow night about the project and there are a lot of people that are involved internationally and it is going to happen and it's going to be something that's very important and I'm very grateful to the people that help me to co-create that.

We thank you and remember above and beyond that even though you will be using the reflections of the children to learn from, what you will be learning is about the child within you and that child within all of you will also add to the momentum so that you do not think in that way that only your physical children know what they are doing. You follow me?

Yes. And I appreciate your expansive and timely creation. I'll keep in touch with you to let you know what happened.

We will know.

Before I sit down, could you tell me the origin of... and I haven't used this in a while, so I hope I'm pronouncing it correctly. Baruk manor.

The only perception that we are receiving at this time is the interjection, if you wish, perpendicularly into your timeline, your history timeline, of an energy of a consciousness that manifests itself from time to time through you. It is a combination of you, all of you, and it is also a connection to what you might call an exterior idea. And it manifests itself through you, through your civilization as any particular observable momentous explosion or revelation or renaissance in your society of change.

There have been many epics and eras in your history in which this has occurred in its sense on a fundamental level. Although there are specifics overlaying it, specific symbols overlaying it that have specific reference to individuals who are aware of it. The fundamental energy has to do with the seeds of explosion, of explosive revelation, of self-awareness, of self-acceleration, of self-growth, self-expansion. It is a trigger, very colloquially put. It is a trigger consciousness in our perception. Will that do?


I was very interested in lucid dreaming and that I felt it was buried deep inside. And that's deep, deep, deep down inside. Yeah. Well, after years and years of trying to lucid dream, I finally did about four or five nights ago.

After years of not flying in my dreams, I picked up a little dog by the paws and took off into the air flying. And then after dreaming of flying and knowing that I was dreaming, I was sitting up on a hillside looking down and I saw an airplane coming up spitting smoke and it went up behind me and it went way down in front of me and it crashed and there weren't any flames or anything like that. But I was very puzzled because nobody seemed alarmed about it. 

And then I went up onto the mountain to kind of think about it and found myself wearing a brand new pair of red shoes. And I happen to be very fond of red shoes. I have no idea what all this meant. 

Anyway, then I was in my kitchen trying to cook dinner for a bunch of people and all of a sudden all my family and all my friends and everybody just crowded into the kitchen like a bunch of sardines. Like they were all trying to tell me something, yattering and chattering. And then I woke up. Seems rather nonsensical to me.


Once again, even though there will be specific meaning you can attribute to it, the idea of what may seem to be nonsensical in your physical terms usually is nonsensical because the experience you are having in a non-physical reality does not necessarily have that many physical symbols to represent the actual experience you had. Your mentality will choose from the symbols that are available to it to make the best sense out of it that it can. You follow me?

Generally speaking, the idea of the plane... Well, first of all, let us say the idea of the dog is an accepting and uplifting through service and letting yourself also be served by the same energy. In knowing that you now can fly as you are. You do not need the symbol of the machine to help you in that way anymore. So you can allow the old ideas to come crashing down. You will understand it will not be a true destruction but a destructurization in a sense.

Now this is specific to your own society in that way. Many individuals here know what the red shoes represent. For they represent what you call in your mythology the idea of going home.

That's right. That's right. I'd forgotten all about that.

And once you were home, the gathering together of all the different aspects of yourself that had been away for so long. It felt crowded at first simply because you do not yet think of yourself as an expanded enough being to contain them all. But as soon as you expand a little more and know that you are truly free in all directions, there will be more than enough room in the house for everyone.

I love it. Actually, while I was standing in the kitchen there, I don't know who it was that was standing next to me. It was somebody I liked. And I reached over and bit her cheek. I thought, "This is really strange." In fact, that's what woke me up was the strangeness of biting someone's cheek lovingly.

Yeah. It is all right. Allow yourself to understand that you have now accepted many, many portions of yourself that you had previously not accepted. And we do not mean that you were purposely antagonistically, fearfully suppressing them, but you have simply reached a point now in your energy where you are now willing to, quote unquote, break the ancient karmic tie and simply let yourself come flooding in so that you can expand as the total being that you are. You follow me?

Fabulous. Yes, I do.

There will be more and more and more that will now come flooding through those gates that you have opened in your dream reality and more and more that will come flooding through those gates into your physical dream and begin to blend so that the synchronicity and the spontaneity of the dream reality will be that which more and more presents itself in your physical realm as well. Great. Fabulous. Thank you very much.



Are you aware of or have your people or other ET societies that you know of actually taken people of Earth aboard their spacecraft for research and information?

I think the classic example I had was Barney Hill and his wife. This is a very famous case. Now do they actually get brought aboard or is it all telepathic?

Sometimes not. More often than not there are telepathic communications which to you can be interpreted in no other way other than physical reality. But there have been physical encounters in that way as well. Yes. I see. And understand that with the majority of what you recognize as contacts, there is usually more than one involved. The majority of them may be telepathic, a few will probably be physical from time to time.

I see. So, it's just so vivid for the being that is being taken because you are enveloped within a different dimension of imagination and imagination is real. I see. It's sort of what happened to Whitley Strieber. Is that his name? Who wrote Communion?

Strieber. Interesting. Some of it was telepathic. Some of it was physical to some degree. Again, remember whether the individuals upon your planet know it or not consciously at this time, this is all with their agreement. Agreements that have been made prior to physical life, agreements that have been made in the dream state to allow them to release the fears that they wish to release, to expand within themselves and recognize the connections that they have that perhaps for a time they will continue to deny they have with the rest of creation.


There are a few legendary stories that our government and perhaps other governments around the world, I'm not quite sure, or military, I should say, have in fact shot down some spacecraft such as there's a story about Hangar 18.

The idea is not that it was in your terms literally shot down. There have been attempts of such nature, of those that do exist in that way. You will find the one specifically referred to as your Hangar 18 scenario was a craft of Zeta Reticulum origin exploring an area of your planet during what you might call high storm electrical activity. Your radar installation at that timing no longer but at that timing had the ability to interfere with navigational guidance systems of those craft. In interfering with navigational guidance systems, in altering, let us say for now simply the shape of the protective field around the craft, it created portions of the metallic hull of the craft to be vulnerable to the electrical storm. It was struck and in that sense it was knocked out and recovered and retrieved by your government in your year 1947.

There have been several and some attempts have been made to utilize the same radar effect upon other craft. So in that sense you could say shot down but not in your terms with the idea of missile, bullet, of such nature. There have been a couple of rare occurrences where again in your terms, let us say for a moment because of the timing taken off guard, certain utilizations of your more typical weaponry have caused malfunctions, but not to any great degree. But yes, your governments have possession of several crafts, remnant thereof, and bodies.

I was going to say, were there people aboard or beings aboard?

Yes.

Were they alive or didn't they survive?

Not at the first.

We have discussed the idea of what one can imagine can truly be or already is already real at some level or dimension and you can manifest to certain degrees portions of it in your own reality. I seem to have trouble envisioning things in my mind and I was wondering if there's a way that one can improve the imaginative skill.

There are many ways. First of all, do not be so hard upon yourself about what you think you can and cannot visualize. Allow yourself to be in a relaxed state and first of all allow yourself to experience, if you will, many physical manifestations of different nature placed before your physical eyes, configurations of different size, shape and color, to get used to the variety of things you can experience and you can use them as templates, as models for various other things. One idea is that therefore you can build a library within you of rudimentary shapes and colors and use them much in the way you would program a computer to build out of those shapes any other shapes you need. That is one way.

Cube, did you get an impression?

Yes.

What color?

Blue.

Thank you. You can visualize just fine. Many of you simply place many demands upon yourself for how you think visualization should occur. Relax with the understanding that you really very often do it just fine and let it expand in its own way instead of trying to force it. Be relaxed and it will expand. Explore it for its own sake, for its own enjoyment and it will expand. Okay?

My name is Kurt Kim Kate. I'm with the Whale Authority. Well, at least I've been functioning in that capacity for the last nine years for the Cabrillo Marine Museum Society.

Did the whales send you?

Well, I think so. All right.

I have some questions. One is on a theory that's currently making the rounds regarding the killer whale. During World War II, all the nations involved were involved in anti-submarine warfare and because targets were very expensive, killer whales became the target of choice. And in effect, we fought World War II without even being aware of it. That's the theory. Would you care to comment on that? That since World War II there hasn't been a documented incident anywhere on the face of the globe of a killer whale attacking, killing or eating anyone, but before World War II apparently such reports were quite common not only here but all over the world. Did we fight World War II and not win?

In a sense you have gone through a transformational gate. It is not really something that I would consider calling a world war, but perhaps if you wish a world awakening to a certain level, a certain understanding, a certain acceptance of the self and also a recognition of what that particular being you call the killer whale represents in your society. For the killer whale, again using your colloquial terminology, is the samurai and the sorcerer of the sea. It is the polarity consciousness, the black, the white, it embodies both sides. And anyone who comes face to face with that being comes face to face with every aspect of themselves, positive and negative, and must deal with it.

So you went through a war if you wish with yourselves even though some of those beings may have functioned physically and been involved to some degree physically in some of those skirmishes and interactions and coming to terms and grips with yourself. It was a reflection, much in the same way as the sonar they use, a reflection, an echo back to yourselves of your own polarities, negative and positive. And they were incorporated and adjusted within you to enough of a degree using the negativity of your World War II scenario to accelerate you in a sense through a type of World War II energy so that you would understand that in incorporating that energy at the same time, in accepting those polarities within you, you would not have to physicalize the idea of your World War II. You follow me?

Yes.

They were an echo, a reflection of a potential future that could have gone either way. You accepted the beginning of the acceleration of the blending of the polarities within you and in so doing, from our perspective, ensured a greater probability that the idea of all other blendings need not play themselves out upon the surface of your world destructively but can be incorporated in an integrated manner. The killer whale gave the first sounding and reflection, the first, if you will, challenge to you, to your society, to incorporate within yourself the understanding of the life of a sorcerer, the life of a warrior, the life of a samurai, but in peaceful terms, in positive terms.

Well, that corresponds very closely with what we know about them scientifically. Thanks. I've got a number of other questions regarding the cetacean project that I'm deeply involved in. This is we're going to try to perform the first ever attempt to make a civilization-to-civilization friendly contact and hopefully to open up channels of communication between our cultures. What I'm wondering specifically is, is there a particular species that we could communicate with most easily? Many of the dolphin species are known only by dead bodies. They're deep pelagic animals and they've shunned us like crazy.

Understand there are already many communications taking place within various areas of your world. It is not the first communication that you will be providing but you will add to the acceleration. But what you call your tursiops, your bottle-nose, in that way will be the most viable, the most like you. For the whales represent something you can communicate with but also represent combinations of dolphin consciousness as if you had a physical embodiment of your own collective oversoul. Whales are the physical embodiment of the collective oversoul of many dolphins. Dolphins are more on the level of what you would call individual humans, individual souls. You follow me?

Do they have multiple point consciousness? Can they think about more than one thing at a time?

Yes. Oh yes. And so can you. Well they fortunately have three voice boxes that can operate independently. So we were kind of pretty sure that they did. Okay.

They simply have allowed themselves to create and be created within an environment that allows for such an expansive evolution. Whereas in being land beings, you have placed certain limitations upon yourself that simply took you in different directions. You can do it within what you would call the electromagnetic field of your mentality, but not physically so much. Although to some degree you have more physical expansiveness than you have been taught to realize even as a species. There are many things you can do within the resonating cavities and chambers of your body that you simply do not know how to do yet. And the dolphins can teach you, well, let us say now I'm being very colloquial, but some fashion of what you might in the future refer to as dolphin breathing yoga to utilize the resonating cavities of your body in much the same way that you may perceive the physical channel to be accommodating our energy at this time and allowing there to be a recognition that there are different ways to stimulate and mimic some of their echolocation procedures.

One of the things that we're trying to be very careful of in the cetacean project is to avoid this becoming either a political or a national or a scientific attempt. We're trying to get as many people involved in it as possible from as many different businesses.

All right? Do not bring fear and worry into it and you will allow it to remain as pure as it possibly can within the vibration of what you desire it to be. Simply trust that if you are moving in the direction of what excites you the most, that vibration in and of itself will attract all the dolphins necessary, the appropriate humans necessary, and everything that occurs will be a part of what needs to occur and not an interruption in the process. You follow me?

I can't tell you what a relief you've just given me.

You have given the relief to yourself. All we are doing is reflecting back to you what you really already know deep down, but were afraid to admit.

Thank you, Bashar.

Thank you. I have one more.

All right. We're considering the possibility of, since we'll be able to obtain the permits for acquiring some captive dolphins and possibly communicating with them, giving them specific information before we release them. Is this likely to be effective? And if so, what's the best way to do that? In other words, acquiring those already in captivity with the idea of releasing them and giving them a message before we release them.

Radiate to them your joy and your symbolic understanding that the release of them is your own release from limitation and from bondage. They will go and spread the word and they will be back in greater numbers than you ever imagined possible.

Do you think if we released all of our cetaceans after no more than three years in captivity that we wouldn't have to capture them anymore?

Recognize that in what you call your near future, and it has already begun, centers will be set up around your coastline to facilitate interaction between humans and dolphins without them having to be captive. They will willingly come to those centers and interact with you. It's already happening all over the world.

Yes. Thank you, Bashar.

Oh, thank you very much.

I have a couple of questions. The first one is I've been told by a couple of sources that I need to have fillings in my teeth, the metal replaced with either a quartz substance or some other substance other than metal. Can you add anything to that?

Is that what you wish to do?

Is it affecting my health or my ability?

To some degree it can. Specifically because many of you may harbor the belief within you that it will. And because it is a very fundamental electromagnetic belief, or let us say it is a belief grounded, no pun intended, in electromagnetic levels, you may find that the substitution of the metal for something more of what you would call the crystal or ceramic nature may allow for the realignment of certain electromagnetic fields around you. Because sometimes the metal within your body can short circuit some of those fields and create what you might call health difficulties.

I recently had trouble wearing silver chains. Is that also...

Silver in your terms is very conductive of electromagnetism. Very conductive. And if you have in any way an imbalance in your electromagnetic aura to begin with, to some degree it can amplify it. When you are clearer, more balanced, minute utilizations of the silver metal can be used as tools for healing and balancing and centering purposes, but you will find not that much need for it. This recognition of silver's properties is why it has always been associated with what you would call the idea of witchcraft and occult practices. You follow me?

And to some degree it is also an extension of other lives you have had where you have dabbled from that particular direction and now simply wish to understand more reliance and ability and capability upon your own part, capacity upon your own part to direct the energies without the utilization of so many of the symbols. So many of the uses of the metallic substances, you can now exchange them for ones that in your terminologies are more neutral and allow you to flow the energy through you in a natural and neutral way.

Would that be crystals instead?

Yes.

Oh, that's what I seem to be drawn to. Oh, okay. Thank you. Thank you.

I have another question. A few weeks ago, you talked about the moldavite tektite. Nice. And I went out and got some and I'm very excited about it. All right. And I was wondering if you could tell us a little more about it. If you could maybe suggest ways to use it.

We will now leave that up to you.

Is it used on other planets or is it strictly on Earth?

There are those of us who have some samples of it. But for now, for now, it has a very strong Earth symbology. Again, it is a memoir from a connection of the past, connections of the other planetary civilization in your solar system that destroyed itself. So it is a message, a calling card from the past that now you have arrived at the same point in time and you can use it as a memory, as a reflection and allow yourself to choose integration rather than destruction. You follow me? Yes.

It is a door and it is green because green is the transformational color of your world.

Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much.

If you wish, you can recognize that moldavite in terms of what you call your vibrational language, in having wrapped that vibration around it to name it, is very similar to another way it could be phrased that might be more representative of its origin point. Maldekite, Maldek, the destroyed world that you now recognize as your asteroid belt and several of the comets and also chunks of moons around other worlds in your solar system, specifically the two moons of Mars.

Okay, thank you.

We thank you. Within those moons, you will find many veins of the same substance.

Hello, Bashar.

Unto you. I've been listening to a lot of the tapes and when you described the fourth density on your planet, I don't remember. You said you don't have to eat. Your body doesn't require food. Does it require water?

Not ours at this time anymore. And in what you would call the near future, neither will yours.

Does yours require water or liquid?

From time to time, there will be some of that, but it will be minimal.

How about the babies when they're grown? Do they require food or mostly in liquid form?

Mostly energy given. There is in your terms I will say a ritual wherein they are passed through what you would call the three phases of sustenance. From their year of birth to their third year, they are given the flesh of the fruit that has sustained us for many generations, what you would call something similar to your lima bean, greenish yellow in color. They are given the nectar of the fruit of a different variety to sustain themselves in their second year and then in that way acclimatize to the energy diet from the third year on.

Okay. I'm still intrigued about the idea that civilization and how Earth is... all the planets have civilizations in them or many of them.

Yes and no. Recognize again that the idea of hollow Earth is not that it is literally hollow in your dimension. The idea is that civilizations' realms exist within, quote unquote, your Earth in other dimensional frequencies. And because it is oriented to your dimensional frequency ninety degrees out of phase in a certain direction, I'm being very colloquial for a moment, very simple. It seems to you that to enter that dimension, you actually go down physically into your Earth to get there. And so because you move in that direction, you actually pass through a gate. After a certain point, you are no longer actually physically in the interior of the same Earth you started from physically inside your Earth. You follow me?

It is in that direction because many of the civilizations in what you would call your Earth interior represent many of the past connections of civilizations that have given rise to the evolution of all civilizations upon your planet. And so it is like going back down in your mind through history. So you go back within the very core of your Earth to the different layers of civilizations that have existed upon your planet. But they are all in different dimensional frequencies, different bandwidths, different spectra. And from one to another, you are actually not in the interior of your physical planet. And in fact, there is a way to find yourself within that interior dimension on one level and then find that there is a varying succession, a progression of different interiors the further you go. Different civilizations, different dimensions the further you go within.

Do they have gates that open up sometimes?

Oh yes. Oh yes. Here and there upon the surface, individuals when appropriate will attract themselves and wander in.

Okay. Some will wander out.

Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much.

Happy belonging.

Good evening, Bashar.

And to you. On a number of occasions in my life, I have created very exciting things to happen which I had no concept would not happen. They were very enthralling. They were sharing creativity with many individuals and there existed no concept within me that these things would not occur. And yet on many occasions I have found that these things did not occur, that negativity, that negative influences occurred on these particular projects. And this seems to contradict in me the concept that when you are thoroughly excited about something, you love it, you're doing it with an integrity, that it would materialize. And I found myself confused as to why these...

All right. May I ask you, as you say, point blank, a personal question?

Of course. Thank you.

Do you really, really, really believe you deserve that type of reality? Or do you still have doubts about that? What is your degree of worthiness?

I felt very worthy about those things. No, no, I wouldn't say there's any doubt in that particular area. No, I felt very worthy about having those sorts of things occur. It was very much of a sharing.

All right. When circumstances took on certain form, why did they have to be pronounced negative?

Well, simply because the projects that were moving along, yes, repeatedly did not materialize.

So they repeatedly did not materialize. That's a neutral way of saying it and perhaps the most precise way of saying it. Why does that have to be negative?

Because the vision was not actually attained.

So that was what I was looking to have it be attained. All right. But again as a reminder we have discussed from time to time that if when the momentum is going in a certain direction for a moment if it seems to stop, that usually means that it is simply continuing on in another way rather than assuming that when it stops here that that is actually the cessation of that particular project.

From a philosophical viewpoint, this is excellent in terms of why are you making a differentiation between a philosophical viewpoint and a physical reality because in consciousness I'm looking for the materialization of a specific way of operating and that did not materialize.

Yes. You could say, "Oh, this is exactly what should have occurred and I think this is a wonderful method for feeling terrific." You know what? You know what?

What? Without in our part as we know you will understand meaning to be derogatory, it is our perception at this time that you do not believe, not really believe that as you truly, truly, truly feel, as you truly know, really is no different from the physical reality you experience.

You are continuing to make differentiations between the idea of a philosophical outlook and a physical experience. You are still differentiating between, "Well yes, that's a nice feeling to have," but without really truly believing that the feeling itself is the generator of the physical reality. You are still not allowing a connection to occur between those two. You are continuing to separate the idea of philosophy and physical reality.

No, only recently.

No, you have fluctuated from time to time in and out. Now, when you say, "Well, that's a nice feeling to have," that in and of itself in that statement is a revelation that you really before that point have not truly believed that the point of view and the physical reality are truly one and the same thing. You are still acting as if a point of view is still remote from the physical experience and that something specific must be done with the point of view in order to create the physical experience.

I see where you're going. Yeah.

So to us this is simply an indication that perhaps you have not yet allowed yourself to trust that the actual point of view is the physical reality, that they are not separate things. And therefore when you create with your point of view a circumstance that occurs in a certain way as you say up to a certain point, when you see that way change out of the way it has been because you are continuing to separate point of view and physical reality, you are all too ready to change your point of view to match what you have been taught to believe are the reasons for the change in the physical level. In other words, you are letting the physical circumstance dictate your point of view rather than trusting your point of view to continue the circumstance in whatever way it really needs to continue. You follow me?

Yes, I do. A much deeper trust, a much deeper and stronger belief that point of view is physical experience and that even though something may change, it does not mean it has changed for the negative. It can simply be a different route in the same direction. It doesn't have to fit your expectations of how you think it should play out to manifest what you desire.

Why can't the consciousness match?

We are not saying that it can't. But we are saying that more often than not right now, right now in your world, it generally will not because your mentality and most mentalities in physical reality do not have the capacity or the need to have the capacity to know consciously all the different ways in which something could manifest in the most easy way. Why carry around with you a conscious catalog of all the possible ways something could manifest when you can simply trust that the way it changes is the way it needs to change to continue in the same direction without having to encumber your mind with all the different possible ways it could change? Why not simply trust that the way you see a change is the way it needs to change and that it has chosen the path of least resistance instead of insisting that you have to be consciously absolutely aware every single moment of all the details, all the specifics of exactly the route it is traveling? That's tiring, of course it is.

All right. That you went off in another direction... That wasn't the direction I was speaking of. No, the direction I was speaking of had to do with an obvious manifestation.

But let me put it another way. Your quote unquote obvious manifestation could be at the end of a path that to you doesn't look like it will lead there. Right? So what we are saying is that when you are moving along a certain path, when you are walking down a certain hall and all of a sudden the door at the end is locked, but the door to the side into another hall is open. What we are perceiving from you is that you are insisting that the door that is locked is the door you should go through, when the door that is open into another hall moving in the same direction is the one that will most likely lead to the obvious manifestation you think is behind the locked door, but which isn't.

Does this make some sense?

Yes, it makes some sense. We've been going over this concept analytically. Yes, it makes a lot...

And again you are still looking at it as a concept without solidity.

I understand what you're saying, Bashar.

That is where the so-called difficulty in this obvious manifestation lies. And this is what causes the apparent non-materialization. Yes. This is what you're saying.

Yes. There is no substance being given to the concept itself in the way it naturally unfolds. There is only substance being given to certain portions of the path that will lead you to the obvious manifestation. The certain portions you have been taught to believe are the portions you absolutely insist upon seeing. At this time in your world, there are many, many, many portions of that path that may not occur to you that actually represent the quickest path of least resistance in creating the obvious manifestation.

Okay? Some of the paths I've chosen seem to be extremely easy to materialize. Yes. And I couldn't understand why they did not materialize. The vision was always there that they would happen that way. It was very exciting. The particular film, particular book, a particular relationship would go into a very loving, very exciting, very expansive way leading to more creativity. Yes. And then those specific projects did not materialize in those ways at all.

But understand what we are saying is that when you start, when you initiate an energy, it doesn't mean that the materialization you see has to come at the end of the hallway you have envisioned. The hallway may be longer and it may look different than you think.

I can understand.

But when you arrive at the end of the part you have mapped out and think that the materialization should be at the end of that hallway and do not allow yourself to continue walking down the adjacent hallway, then you yourself are actually not acting through the initial energy momentum you started. You are only stopping halfway down, a third of the way down, at the point where you say, "This is all of the hallway I have envisioned. Therefore, that's all that's valid." You are assuming that a change is not a continuation. In another way, you are assuming that when the scenario changes, that represents an end and at the end should be the materialization. If the materialization is not there at the end of the map you have charted, then that's not the end of the hall. It has changed in another way. Keep moving along the path that now presents itself to you. Even if it looks like it has nothing to do with it, even if it looks like it's not an extension of the hallway you have charted. The hallways you chart that truly are the end just before the actual materialization will result in the materialization. Those that don't are hallways that change into what they need to be so you can continue down them in a different way to then lead to the obvious materialization.

But the obvious materialization doesn't necessarily have to be at the end of the portion of the hall that you think represents the end of the entire hallway. You follow me?

I'm following what you're saying. But it's not sinking in. No, it is sinking in conceptually. And I have worked with that particular approach many times.

Here is a suggestion for you. We would at this time suggest that when you have a desire for a specific idea, put the energy out there, but do not necessarily place upon the way you get there so many specific needs of how it is you will actually get there. Why not? Because that limits you. Because you are not able to conceive of all the other ways, of all the ways that actually might be easier ways to get there. You may have only conceived of difficult ways to get there. Maybe there are easier ways to get there and if you refuse to look at them, you won't get there easily.

No, I don't agree with you, Bashar. That's a negative connotation. No, no. Okay. Just because you've got a specific materialization doesn't mean that I'm closing the door on all other ones.

We understand that. But when you with that specific materialization then say, "How come I didn't get the manifestation at the end of the specific materialization I have envisioned? How come?" Then that's your sign right there that the specific way that you visualize is not the total way. And there are other elements you have not consciously been aware of that still need to be played out. So that the point of limitation, the viewpoint of limitation, is moving toward a more expanded point of view in a sense.

Yes. The idea simply, we are not saying that you cannot envision a specific mode of travel. But all we are saying is that do not insist that the mode of travel you envision has to contain all the elements necessary for the obvious materialization. It may not. And therefore, when you arrive at the apparent end of the mode you have visualized and the materialization has not occurred, that right there lets you know that there are more elements than you are consciously aware of and that you do not necessarily have to be consciously aware of what they are to simply act upon whatever opportunities present themselves to you at the very next moment at the end of your hallway that represent what excites you the most.

I tend to create a frustration.

In a sense, we would suggest that you simply take more walks in nature. It will expand and loosen you up and allow you to understand there are many more paths to a certain point than the one you may plan out on your nature hike map.

Okay? We truly literally mean this. Take more walks in nature. It will assist you in allowing you to understand you don't need to be consciously aware of every step you take. And when you expand and relax that need, then the obvious materializations can occur more quickly because you will be letting all the different paths that really represent the paths of least resistance work for you rather than insisting that you have to know what those steps are in order to let them be valid, in order to let them get you where you are going. Right? You do not have to be consciously aware of all the specifics of the path. And in many ways, attempting to be consciously aware of all the specifics of the path is what slows you down. Correct? Because there are so many specifics of which you could be aware. Then all you will be doing is enjoying a long time observing all the specifics and never reaching the materialization. Right?

You realize that impulse isn't really there. I'm not attempting to be aware of all of the specific ways.

But we are saying in an unconscious way you are because you are outlining a specific path and you are saying that there is an insistence within you that at the end of the path you have outlined you should see an obvious manifestation which you are not seeing. That insistence in and of itself implies that only the variables within the path that you are aware of are the only ones you think need to be there. And so that is a type of insistence that only certain specifics can be known by you in that way.

I understand.

And the idea again is that when you arrive at what seems to be the end of your map, that doesn't mean your map is really ended. Don't assume that something hasn't worked just because it hasn't worked by the time frame you have given it in the way you have ordered the time frame. Okay? Continue to move on whatever presents itself to you and stop assuming that you have failed to manifest. You have always manifested exactly what you need. But it is an opportunity to decide whether you're going to look at it as the end of a hall and a failure or as the middle of a hall and a continuation towards your success.

I got those concepts for sure.

Then let the concepts really be real.

I understand. Thank you. One tiny more point. Does this mean that one cannot... No, I don't. I know it doesn't. But say you want to manifest a specific script in a movie that you've written. You want to put this particular film on the screen. It does not mean you cannot do it. All we are saying is that allow as many variables as need to be there to be there. And very, very important. Perhaps this is also a good suggestion for you. In meditation, continue daily, daily for now, to be gently and lovingly, not in a reprimanding way, gently and lovingly in touch every day with what your beliefs for that day are. Every day. They will change and they will begin to expand and relax. True, honest self-examination will reveal to you what you really believe about your day-to-day reality, will give you the elements you need to work with in an easy, effortless way, and will truly put you in touch with a true sense of your ability to manifest what you really desire.

That's excellent. That's helpful. Thank you, Bashar.

Thank you. Love you.

And you, we love you deeply.

Oh, by the way, it's almost strawberry season. Are you going to pick me up?

When you pick yourself up.

Hello, Bashar.

Unto you. I share an illness with many of the female members of my family on my mother's side. It's been diagnosed as lupus. I've been in perfect health for ten years, but my mother is currently suffering from this. Lupus is a blood illness. I'm not quite clear exactly what it is, but I've been told that it's something like the number six element in all of our blood is defective. It manifests in different ways but basically the same way. With my mother it manifests with arthritis, with swelling. She had a stroke last year. Her sister had a stroke. So it manifests in different ways for all of us, but there are similarities. I've been trying to help her by giving her healing stones and some tapes to listen to, and she's open to this type of thing, but there's still an up and down situation with her health.

All right. Our suggestion is that you require a conclave. Now, we do not mean this in the derogatory sense that some individuals in your society take this word, but what you need is to reestablish your covenant. You need to reorient and align yourself with nature, with your early ancient understandings of the earth, if you will, mother supportive natural vibration. You need to reaffirm and reestablish your ancient ties. And as you represent all the different stages of femininity, of the feminine expression in your world, you can know that you are your own complete cell in that way.

And together, truly once again together in the restive and restorative scenarios of a natural surrounding in lush, green, fertile, supportive, highly energized surroundings, you can breathe with the earth and breathe into the blood and out of the blood the things that need to be there and don't need to be there. You require a conspiracy among you. Conspire to breathe together. Inspire to breathe together as one so that each and every one of you can feel all the different eras, all the different ages within you. The mother, the daughter, the child. In that way, what you would call the sister energy, the lover energy, you need to feel all the different aspects of your femininity together. All that you can reflect to each other about all the different levels within each of you. Share it. Blend it. Breathe as one. Breathe together. Mix it in the central area that represents the old style pot that will hold the brew, the magic potion for you.

With your breath of life and with the earth crystal, you can create a substance, an elemental substance in your imagination, in your etheric magnetic energy, in your auric fields that can aid and assist, blend and balance. It is like drinking deeply from a well. Literally sit in a circle and drink deeply from the well you will create in between you. It will be a well of life, a well of rejuvenation, a well of balancing, a mirror of your soul. You will be dipping into the well of your own soul, the well of the earth. In time will come with it the balancing of the polarity of your masculine aspects. Some of that balancing is necessary to allow you to stop focusing so highly on the idea of the feminine aspects, which creates some of the imbalance within you, as you have a tendency to have picked up from your society ideas and beliefs about some of your feminine aspects that are not completely balanced.

So in getting in touch with all the different ideas about your femininity as a unit, as a family, as a soul group, as a single soul, as a single cell, you can then learn to breathe freely that feminine energy and then allow for the balance of the masculine energy, blending it in that place. Pick, in your terms, a special place somewhere serene out in nature. Go there and have a picnic of energy sharing and simply feel, loving unconditionally, all the different women that you are, all the different levels of femininity that you are for each and every individual. Feel within yourself the mother. Feel within yourself the daughter. Feel within yourself the lover. Feel within yourself the sister. Feel them all through the ages. Blend. Breathe them together. Literally let the breath between you intermingle in the center. Create a balance and a blending that when you breathe back in will then center and align you more and more.

Now you may find this will accelerate certain processes within you, relieve some of the toxicity within you, and you may actually feel a little bit sicker at first because you will accelerate some of that negative toxicity. But it will blend and balance out if you are open enough to share unconditionally and without fear and explore all the different aspects that you have ever been with regard to the feminine energy and then allow for a polarization balance with the masculine side of all of you.

So you feel that this illness is rooted in a past or not past life but a concurrent life or lives that we've led together that deals with our feminine/masculine aspects?

Yes.

Can I... I'm a little confused about something that somebody told me. There's a theory that I heard today that when we die and our consciousness is going to go into another physical body or make the agreement of what it will do next, that it merges with all the other energy and becomes one energy. Therefore, is it possible that if this theory is true that perhaps at one time all of the members of my family that have this illness, that we were all the same person and we have splintered off and become different physical?

It is not that you were the same person per se, but as we have said, you are the same soul group, the same soul. You are aspects of the same soul. So there was an oversoul that there still is. There still is. But you are reflecting to each other as, let us say, shards of a mirror so that you can reflect to each other that you are in fact one mirror. It is time to now rejoin rather than exist as shards. You follow me?

Yes. That is why we are suggesting that you breathe together to experience the one breath that you are so that you can support each other and let the entire earth in its nurturing feminine aspect support you. Because as you become the one soul that you are, we are not saying you will lose your individuality in that sense. But as you live and understand and connect with the one soul you are, that will be a unitized integrated reflection of the one soul the earth is. You will form a perfect mirror reflection of each other and then you can exist on the same vibratory level that will allow the earth vibration to support you unconditionally so that you will be in perfect centered health.

Well, the fact that I have been in perfect health for ten years, how does that... if we all have the same genetic problem, how does that pertain?

It's not a problem. But the idea is that you have now triggered within yourself an opportunity to aid and assist other individuals as well in your family to begin with this balancing. You do not need to experience in and of yourself long-term suffering with this idea. You have simply triggered it so that you can play your part in the combining of the soul. You follow me?

So I'm kind of a cathartic.

Yes. Catharsis, catalyst, good terms.

Okay. Another question I have is I'm a screenwriter and I've written many scripts and I have many ideas for other scripts and I'm curious about where these ideas come from. Are they channeled to me from other entities or are they channeled to me from my higher self?

Does it matter? I'm curious.

All right. Understand this. Whether or not, as there always is, whether or not there is information that comes from quote unquote elsewhere, whether or not you are tapping into all different levels of consciousness, you still have to know it also always comes from you because it is a co-creation. You follow me?

Who am I co-creating it with?

Different levels at different times depending upon the reason, depending upon the information. You are, as everyone is, a switching board and you are always plugging and unplugging into whatever levels or streams of consciousness you require to allow you to channel the information through that is necessary for the vibration you are being at that moment. Being in a certain idea places you on a vibratory level that automatically plugs you into a certain level or stream of information and then allows that information to be translated through you. It is not specifically that you have to relegate it to any specific other consciousness. Simply trust that it is you and it is also everything. You follow me?

For now, we are reluctant to give it a specific vibratory label because that will create more separation within you rather than a blending. Trust and understand that regardless of whether it is anyone else, it is still also you because you have to be of that wavelength in order to perceive it. And then that means you are blending with that other level of consciousness. And so in that sense, it might as well be you. And in a very real sense, even if it is another consciousness, it's still you because on one level, everyone is the same one soul.

That's true.

So we would simply suggest less differentiation, less labeling, more unification. Let it flow. It does not matter where or when it comes from because every where and every when is right here and now. You follow me?

Yes, I do. If there is any need for a specific understanding, it will come.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you very much.

One moment.

Good evening, Bashar. My name is Simon.

All right. I heard you speak about evolution and transformations and my curiosity is to question what do you mean by evolution? Are your society evolved to such a degree that it's superior to ours and we are expected to evolve to that state?

Well, in a very loose sense, but we do not consider ourselves superior to you. We are equal but in a different way, perhaps a more expanded way, a more trusting way. You have this capacity within you and it is the direction we perceive you are going in. There are many different ideas of evolution that your society does not understand and in a sense are even quote unquote difficult to talk about because some terminologies do not exist in your language to truly define the idea of evolution. It is a linear format. However, when you look at it as an evolutionary process and all things in reality are simultaneously existent and not truly literally linear. Linear reality is created by the physical universe you perceive yourself to be in. And so you look at your progress and your expansion as an evolution. In a sense, it is simply a shifting to a different vibratory level that allows you to then occupy a reality which already exists and simply look through the eyes of the you that inhabits that particular reality.

So in a sense it is like stepping upstairs so to speak in the sense that you are increasing your vibratory level or rate of existence, but in another sense it is only like moving over, stepping into another room in the same house. In a sense, overall on the same level, even though the vibration is different, we are not superior to you in the sense that we are better than you, that we are more capable than you. We have an expanded point of view. We have an expanded unconditional trust and that allows us to express ourselves in a more expanded way. Your civilization is now learning to do this. And therefore we do perceive that you will also as a civilization within a very short order of time express yourself in a similar way to our civilization and many of the civilizations we are familiar with.

I do have a question though on the evolutionary process as we know it. Perhaps you can help. We assume that or we have heard that homo sapiens has evolved from former species of man and there has to be some type of transformation that takes place. And the same thing when we talk about animals evolving, we hear about genetic drift and variation in a species, survival of the fittest, but nobody has ever mentioned anything about the mechanisms that are involved in this type of transformation.

Physically, a lot of them are simple mutations brought about by shifts in conscious awareness. There will usually be a physiological scenario that will represent the shift in consciousness that brings on the mutation. This physical scenario will seem to have caused the mutation. But it is the shift in consciousness, the shift in the awareness that already exists and has existed since the quote unquote beginning of creation, though there isn't really a beginning. That brings on the mutation to create a bodily form that is more conducive to a connection with a level of consciousness that can then express itself in a way that is more representative of the next level it has taken itself to.

So the idea in a sense now to be very simple for a moment is that your so-called scientific evolutionists and your so-called religious creationists are both correct. There are in a sense indigenous patterns of physical life that are the result of the blossoming of the initial creation. And consciousness, non-physical consciousness, when it wishes to inject itself into physical reality, will perceive one of those indigenous life patterns that seems to be conducive already proceeding in certain directions that require few changes and will with its consciousness initiate the mutational changes to create a type of body that will then be more accommodating to the consciousness that may, this is very colloquial, place itself within that body.

So while there was, let us say, a pre-homo sapien form that existed not as a thinking being but more in what you would call an animal consciousness state, the consciousness, the collective consciousness that you now recognize to be your civilization, made the alterations, mutated the genetic structure with its consciousness so that it could evolve as a physical consciousness, as a physical being into a form that would be more adaptive to the non-physical consciousness that could then project itself within the physical body.

Mechanisms mean when you talk about genetic structure that might have something to do with mechanisms, but the actual things that are occurring at that level of genetics, that level of a cell, of the atom, all right, these things are what I'm hoping that you might be...

let's lay a brief foundation. There is a template universe. To some degree, it is the borderline between the non-physical intangible and the physical tangible universe. The template has a tetrahedral crystalline structure which is the filter that translates non-physical consciousness into the energy vibratory patterns that give rise to the first manifestations of physical matter as quarks [protons]. 

These then become the building blocks for the necessary molecules that represent in coded form the consciousness desire having passed itself through the tetrahedral prism. 

It will encode itself in energy that will then slow its vibration down to material form and actually allow to appear as subatomic particles that carry a different type of orientation that will attract themselves to one another in a different way than has ever been attracted before, that will then build into the atomic and molecular groupings that represent the shift in the genetic structure of what you would call the DNA molecule. 

It takes a turn in a different phase, in a different direction, a different orientation, and that will magnetically encode all the changes that occur from that point forward within any resultant progeny.


I was fascinated by the concept because conventional trust here has had nothing to do with what you were talking about and I wonder if you could elaborate on that.

Trust is a true natural knowingness that the things within you that move you, that excite you, are the things that represent what you are all about. Trust, therefore, is a willingness to act upon that knowingness, that internal knowingness, to be true to yourself in an integral way, to function as an integral being. Taking all the aspects you see yourself to be, knowing they are a whole, knowing they function as a whole, trusting that in a sense, acting, functioning as an integral being is an expression of trust.

The part of trust that I'm referring to and I appreciate what you say now is the one you talked about as a society, trust between individuals and the group. Yes. It was something that you referred to that I'd like to have you elaborate on, that there is sort of an understanding that each one is doing their own thing in a specific way for the benefit of the group. Is that what I was hearing?

Yes. And when each and every individual functions with that in mind, then their combined trust will be the energy that magnetizes them together so that they interact only in a way that is representative of what they trust to be true. Trust in a sense therefore is, if you wish, glue. It is magnetism.