---
title: "Self Fulfilling Prophecy"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1987-03-19
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
---



Richness, variety, diversity in knowing that anything at any moment that appeals to your curiosity that attracts your excitement is a methodology that because it attracts you will work for you.

Because you are practicing from the point of view that anything that you are attracted to is something that will work for you. As long as you know you are functioning within your integrity and following at any given moment the thing that excites you the most. Then you can generate a belief system that will utilize the fundamental mechanism of the universe in the same way that any other system does, but will allow you to experience a support system, a system of logic, self-perpetuating and self-proving that will also allow you a wide range of tools. Your imagination as we have all that is the key. Your imagination is the primal tool through which any ritual, methodology or process you believe you need can come to you. For all the rituals and methodology that have existed in any other way of belief were all created by imagination to begin with. So allow yourself if you wish to function as the axiom that the truth is all truth and that any truth is real. If that is your focus at that time, you will always be supported. You will always get the feedback. You will always have the proof at any given moment that the system you believe in is the system that will work for you at that moment. When you change the idea that you are, you automatically change the belief system. You automatically change the system of logic that supports it. Anything and everything will work for you because you are the creator of anything and everything in your experiential reality.

So anything you have to predict about yourself, any prophecy you wish to become in line with your system of logic will always be a self-fulfilling prophecy because that is the point of view you are coming from and any such prediction was made from within that point of view. You all follow along. We thank you for allowing us to share these perspectives and remind you always that they are simply the perspectives and point of view that have worked for our civilization. It is up to you to determine what will work for you. We simply are interacting with your civilization at this time because we recognize that many of you have similar points of view to the points of view that have worked for us. And so we will as a part of the system of logic that supports itself come to reinforce the system we exist within and simply invite any who wish to share that system to share it with us. But know beyond a shadow of a doubt that no matter what system of belief you choose, you are at any given moment doing the thing that represents who you need to be at that moment. And we believe in that choice utterly. And so we will extend once again our appreciation to you in allowing us to experience the gift of your collective and individual consciousness to allow us to see that many more ways that infinite creation has of expressing itself within the creation that it is. We thank you for your gift of sharing. And so we will now in your terminology turn it around and simply ask you once again, how may we serve you at this time?

**Finding a Right Love Partner**

Hello. Unto you. Good day. I first met you in a while. You gave me some lessons and I've been very happy and very clear. They've worked well. Thank you for creating that system for yourself. You're welcome. And allowing us to reflect what you already knew. What I need to know now, the one thing I seem to want the most that I can't create or establish for myself or find is that right love partner. Right love partner. Uhhuh. And eventually to marry that right love partner, whether it be soulmate or whatever you want. Up to you. Do you recognize of course that in the creation of any so-called mirror relationship in your physical reality, the first relationship to establish that will always attract automatically is the relationship of yourself to yourself. That you first and foremost are your own partner ultimately and that the universe in that sense is the reflection of your partnership ultimately. You follow me? Yes. Now, if you are willing to know that you deserve unconditional love because you exist and for no other reason than that, because infinite creation has seen fit to bequeath unto you its direction of unconditional love, then treat yourself first of all with the same unconditional love, self-love. And all of that recognition and all of your willingness to love all beings, the total creation unconditionally in whatever service you wish to provide along the line of whatever excites you the most will always attract to you any individual you have made such an agreement to be a partner with at precisely the perfect time to reflect back to you your belief in your completeness, your wholeness. You follow me? Yes. So you do not need to search for this individual. If there is an individual do remember first of all that at this timing in your society many of you are beginning to recognize that you are in many ways married to your entire society. So it does not necessarily mean that one individual is necessary to represent that idea. However many of you do make agreements to allow an individual to reflect that knowledge of balance and centering back to you. But when you are functioning as that centered being and know you are complete as you are without needing the relationship, that is when paradoxically it has the best opportunity to appear in your life. Because many individuals who search for a relationship in order to feel complete will usually only attract a relationship to reflect their belief in their own incompleteness. When you then know you are a complete individual as you are, then you will attract the individual you have made the agreement with to appear in your life at the appropriate place in time to reflect back to you that you are a complete individual. That that individual will be able to share with you as an equal, not as a need, but as an equal the idea of all the completeness, you know, all the joy and ecstasy, you know, you are just as who you are by yourself. You follow?

Now, it is our perception specifically with you that you have made such an agreement with such an individual. This does not mean at any given moment that any individual you are interacting with is not your soulmate because they are. Because any individual you interact with you are interacting with for a reason. And therefore any individual can be called your soulmate at that moment because they being in your life obviously are the one at that moment that needs to be in your life. So they are your soulmate for that moment. You follow me?

Allow yourself with any situation, any relationship, any interaction that is going on to allow what is going on to be what needs to be going on at that moment and extract from it all the positive understanding that you can. And it is that willingness to allow what is there to be there that will paradoxically accelerate you toward the time when anyone you have made a specific agreement with to reflect your knowingness to you will be able to then come into your life. Perfect place, perfect time. Remember, you create your own destiny and all dates with destiny are on time. You cannot miss them by definition. You follow me? Yes. Thank you very much. So, simply enjoy as you are the relationship that you are and you will attract into your life all reflections of that relationship that you are to infinite creation. Enjoy. We thank you. Thank you. Sure.

**An Out-of-Body Experience with Whales and Dolphins**

And to you. I'm very grateful for us on this workshop and I mean uh those of us that were well we are very grateful for you in being there in co-creating this experience with us. Things have been extremely exciting since then. And oh my, there's a few things that I'm not sure I understood the message of. Oh, what? I had one experience about which I asked a dream to explain it but I'm not sure I understand the dream. So the experience was that um as I was listening to a tape which had some out of body experience techniques in it. Yes. All of a sudden I felt like changing voltages. Yes. And instead of... I just never had an out-of-body experience. You mean consciously? Consciously. What do you have them all the time as you all do? And I thought I'd be going off to the moon and to Mars, but I felt that I was in the middle of the ocean all of a sudden. So, and uh is that not as valid a place as your moon or your Martian planet? That's wonderful. And I felt absolutely wonderful. Yes. And uh I was... one of the reasons is because you were also linking with an assistant that basically represents a dolphin consciousness and you simply went with the flow of the direction of the consciousness you felt. Yeah. That was extremely uh relaxing and fulfilling. Yes. And all of a sudden I got the scare of my life. All right. Out of what? In what way? This huge whale suddenly jumped out. Yes. And this was so beautiful. This whale was all white on top and uh there was such a friendly presence and I felt uh for a minute I thought that I was a whale or something in a sense. Yes. In a sense, there was a blending of consciousness because the whale as you understand it is the representation of the collective consciousness of many dolphins. A dolphin higher self in embodied form. Was I in my... was I in a human presence there or was I in an animal or a... whale is not as you understand it an animal? No, I'm sorry. It is the same type of soul as your human form. But was I in that... in a whale or was I just in the water or at that moment? Simply recognize that you were not any particular form because the soul in that way can be anything it wishes to be. The projection of your consciousness in that sense carries with it both aspects of the dolphin, the cetacean, the idea of the whale and your human form to allow you in seeing the reflection in the whale as the dolphin higher self to begin to feel the expansion of your own human higher self as well. You are one and both the same idea, the same type of soul, the same blended idea. It was a projection of consciousness without what you are used to thinking of as your typical format, your typical form. You follow? I understand.

**A Dream of Five Books and Medals**

Uh the dream I had um the following morning. Actually, it was yesterday morning. Um, I received five books and they had the same kind of cream color of the whale. And they were five identical copies apparently of a book that I wrote and I sort of not thought they would ever get published. And they had been translated into German, which is not my native tongue. And um, they've been published in Germany and sent to me. These were beautiful looking books and I sort of surprised that these were mine. I'm very pleased. And um I've seen that I get these details right and I tried to read some of what was in them and I had a hard time making any sense of it, just all right, and they were like alisms or fragments or something like that and uh maybe had something to do with Greek philosophy. I'm not sure. To some degree, what they basically represent, five being the number of humanity as you understand it, are reconnections that you are forming to many of your past selves, bringing them all up into the present in that way and allowing yourself to translate so to speak all of those past experiences simultaneously so that they will all be valid. It represents in the five number different experiences in different cultures in that way. As you understand basically the five cultures, five races in that way, five senses in that sense. The idea is the gathering together of all the symbology of all the humanity you have been so that you can now gather yourself and again once again as we have said become your higher self in the present bringing all that knowledge from any time any place together in you. Now the books represent the translation across what you might call time and space of all the knowledge you require to be who you are being right now to know whatever you need to know to be who you are being right now. Thank you.

The dream went on from there. Um the books came with a letter and uh this was a letter from the publishers or a committee or so. And yeah, guys, it is from your higher self. Yeah. This was interesting. It had all these uh auditory remarks in it and uh very flattering. And um I had two medals in it and it said that I had been nominated and I don't know what it meant by a "Ris of the Year." And the medals were little red bar with a golden bear hanging on it. They were identical medals. And um, you know, I was thinking that it could be maybe a name, could be the Greek word. Uh I I don't really know which way to go with that information. In your imagination at this time, if you were to take those medals and do something with them, what would you do? They're meant to be your jacket, I guess. All right. In a sense, they are meant to be worn. Yeah. The idea therefore if you wish is to recognize that you are giving yourself permission to have in your terms the courage, the valor, the opportunity to express the ideas in your life that excite you the most. To continue to gather unto yourself the understanding of the total being that you are to know that you have what it takes, all the tools necessary to be whatever you wish to be and to go forth with that valor, with that boldness, with that certainty, with that trust and to shine in that way. What do the medals signify? They signify to some degree some connections that you have not only upon your planet but to other stellar systems. And represents a flow that you are creating, a connection that you are creating, not only in all the lives you have been upon your planet and all the different cultures of which you are a part, but also of all the other dimensions of experience, what you might call in some ways ET. You already know it as the bear.

The dream goes a bit more. The dream is living right now. You are living the dream right now. It has not stopped and it never will. Um in addition as you gave me some information about this committee and there were five members from five different countries. Yes. Uh France, Germany, Soviet Union, Italy and Egypt. The only person that had voted against me was from Egypt and he had a name actually that sort of not remember uh "Al" and then a middle name and then "Q U R" "Q U A R". The details in that way are not that essential and it was not directly a vote against you. It simply represented in that connection to that light tie a certain polarity, a certain uncertainty, perhaps a use of negativity in that way. It is simply representative of your fear to gather that as well within yourself. But understand with your symbol of the bear, as connects also symbolically into what you call your Soviet Union upon your planet, you have the stamina, you have the wherewithal to incorporate all of that right now and to emerge from your hibernation as it were symbolically. So is this life where these things come together or? Yes, this is the transformational life as it is for most of you. This is the transformational age upon your planet. Um unfortunately the dream ended. Uh the dream has not ended. I'm sorry. Live it. Yes, live it now. Have the boldness. Express your dominion. That is also a symbol of the bear in your society. In the dream, the dream ended. Can I say it like that? I won't say that. You can say it any way you wish to. But allow yourself to understand that every symbol that you create in your physical or your dream reality will always be understood if you simply get on with the living of your life and allow the meanings to make themselves plain in the doing, in the action, in the unfoldment of your physical life. You do not have to sit and wonder and get an analytical understanding before you allow yourself to proceed in that way. All things become clear in the timing in the unfoldment of the life. You can simply live as boldly as you can. Um some of my colleagues were very pleased with my success in this pain and uh but there was one person actually who tore the book uh and he wanted to destroy the book. These are only once again your old fears within you. I can understand that you have dominion over them. Exercise it not through force but through the unconditional trust and knowingness of your dominion and it will be blended. You will have in your terminology a few more dreams dealing with this idea and you will have communication from beings that can be of assistance to you in assisting to clarify some of these concepts for you. So allow yourself the expression of the dream reality in physical terms and in non-physical terms. All will become clear but live your life and do what excites you and you will give it the best opportunity to become the clearest it can be in the quickest amount of time. Thank you very much. Oh, thank you.

**A Spare Seat on the Spaceship**

One little question. If you have a spare seat on the spaceship, what will you think about me? All such arrangements have already been planned for each and every one that is so inclined towards that timing. When it occurs, our interactions with you and the many civilizations that will begin to interact with your civilization within the next three decades of your time will leave no one out that is of that vibration. Pleasant dreams.

**A Crystal and Its Power**

Sure it unto you. I really appreciate it also. And you just answered my question because I was going to ask I'm a member of the association now if you're going to be having any kind of group travel plans. So I'm glad to hear that that's going to happen. Um a crystal came into my path not too long ago. A large crystal. I'm wondering why I have it at this time. And well, how has your imagination desired to use it? I'm not sure. Well, ask it right now. I feel that it has something to do with the earth. All right. Is that a question or a statement? Make it a statement if you wish. It is up to you. You can be certain. Trust your instincts. Okay. Well, okay. Um, I guess I had a confusion about uh if a crystal has its own power at all. In a sense, yes. But you are always the master crystal. And for you and all of you, they simply function as triggers for your own power. It has its own power because you imbue the physical reality with its power. But all that power comes from you. You follow me? Yes, I do. They are representations of energy. Obviously they are manifestations, crystallization, solidifications of energy and in that way energy is power and they have their own frequency and that is representative of a certain level of power. But you are the primary circuit, the primary crystal. It is a trigger for you to release within yourself the energy you know you can use to create the reality you desire. So trust your imagination. Okay, thank you. Thank you very much.

**An Incarnation in Essassani Space and Time**

And another question. Um, as you are an incarnation of Daryl Anka, do I have an incarnation of myself who is in your space and time? Not always. Sometimes. Remember that the majority of the population of our world is made of what you might call transients. The idea that from time to time individuals may in desiring to experience our particular dimensional reality create temporarily an embodiment for themselves. Temporarily come and go, pop in and out as you say. In that sense, you are not what might be called one of the regular or permanent members, but you do come and go. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. You have a more permanent membership somewhere else. Where? You'll find out.

**Physical Sensations During Awakening**

Shooting. Good evening, Bashar. And to you. Um, I've had trouble trying to... my mind. Okay, I'll back. We'll start over. I experienced sensation not unlike dream remembrances. Yes. During the day, I'll be awake. Um something someone will say, a smell in the air will trigger sensations that take over. I experience my vision gets blurry. I see sparkling lights. I break out in a cold sweat. How exciting. I get my stomach turns and it wrenches and I get brief pictures. Nothing that really seems to connect. All right. uh things that many times I remember having dreamt the night before that will oftentimes wake me up. All right. I've had this happen for many years now. It frightens me. I because it's physically very uncomfortable. It does not have to be. Well, I've tried. It is only physically uncomfortable because you allow it to be frightening. I've tried to relax and say, "Oh, there it is again. That familiar feeling." And it's all right. Why in your terminology do you think it frightens you? Aside from the physical discomfort, I'm not sure. All right, let's exercise your imagination for a moment if we may. May we? Yes. Thank you.

Using your imagination right now, is there something within this endeavor that you think you might discover that would be in what you might call the scenario of your worst possible fear? Something that you would discover that you would not want to discover. I thought about that. I don't I don't know what it would be that I would be afraid of. Oh, come on. use your imagination. Um, in trying to connect it with something, I connect it with change when uh there's a big change going on perhaps. Um, and in recent years, I found myself changing constantly. All right. Do you find that great change to you represents the idea of a physical inability to handle the amount of change you think is happening? Yes. Thank you. All right. Why do you think your body's so frail? I haven't consciously been thinking of it as frail in terms of the amount of change that you believe is happening. To not think that your body can handle it, that is an attitude of frailty. It is a doubt about the body's capacity to handle the changes that you think are going on on the magnitude on which they are occurring. It is in a sense at least from our perspective an ingrained bought into belief that your body is somehow actually a container for these energies and that these energies since you know they are more expansive than you think your body is. That these energies may somehow wrench, twist, distort, break the body in that way. Do you understand the idea that your body is not what holds your spirit, but that your body is your spirit? Yes. Now, what does that mean to you? That your body is your spirit. That I can do with it what I want, learn what I want, go what I want. Okay. But it also means there is absolutely no separation between a physical concept and a non-physical one, except by a definitional term. Why do I have such trouble understanding what this is when it happens to me? We are getting there.

I see pictures and images and they're fleeting and they don't seem to connect. One time it happened and the next day I found myself acting out what it was in that dream. Yes. And that's the only time it's been precognitive to me. All right. And what physical sensations accompanied that? I was excited. But I thought perhaps now I was beginning to understand what it was all about. A you were and you still are now. One moment. Stretch yourself more. Stretch yourself out. Relax. Enjoy. Do you think that you may be willing to act out more of your imagination in your physical reality? All right. In what directions would you prefer to act out your imagination? Sharing. In what way? People experiences. It's been happening. I find myself on national television talking about um relationships. Male and female. And how do you physically feel when you do that? Good. All right. It's my point of view has a tendency to be controversial. By whose standard? The general public. So it upsets people. It excites them. It upsets you. [Laughter] It upsets you and that is one of the sources of your physical upset because you are buying into the idea that you are upsetting them. Okay? You are not. You are being who you are. If they choose to be upset, that's their choice. I try to remind myself that. All right, you do not have to try so hard. You are getting used to the idea and bit by bit your discomfort will begin to subside. But first, you must grant yourself the permission to be who you are without thinking that you are causing so much upset because that upset will only backlash into you as it is doing. No need to buy into their judgments of you. No need. No need to invalidate that portion of yourself. No need to take the burden of responsibility for everyone else. Now be aware of your impact. Yes. But if you already understand that what you are doing is the product of your excitement and your integrity, do not hold within you the invalidation that you might be being offered from someone else. It is only an offering. You don't have to accept it. All right? You are valid. You deserve to express yourself in any way, shape or form with your integrity that you feel so inclined. You do not have to worry about who you are upsetting. Why this period of time is this happening to me? Because you are strengthening yourself in many ways because what you are doing is about to expand by leaps and bounds. I'm getting ready. Yes, you are going to explode. Explode in many ways. You are allowing yourself to align and learning how not to buy into the invalidations of others so that when you do explode it won't be physically literally. All right. All right. Breathe. Breathe deeply and easily. Breath itself is the symbol of the energizer, the balancer, the centering energy. Just breathe. Just breathe. And anytime you perceive from anyone else their point of view, when you breathe in, you will breathe all points of view in. When you breathe out, you will breathe out all the ones that have nothing to do with your particular frequency. You follow me? Yes. And you will not hold them within you in your gut. Breathe and breathe easy with yourself. Lighten up on yourself. You are worth listening to. Not because it is your desire to force anyone to understand what you have to say. I don't. Since you do not have the desire to force anyone, then do not accept by force anyone else's opinion either. I don't. But you do force them upon yourself. That is what we mean by force. Accepting by force. Accepting by assumption that their invalidations are something that has something to do with your reality at all. Individuals in your society for now, many of them are going to choose to be upset by many different ideas. But this is the transformational age. This is the limbo state. This is the time when all ideas are being examined so that you can all decide for yourself which directions you wish to go in and which directions you wish to solidify as the reality you will experience. So you are playing your part. You are singing your song. Let it blend with all songs and simply understand. Some individuals will think it discordant, but many individuals will hear it as a thing of beauty. And as long as you know it is your song, sing it to the fullest. No matter who does or does not hear it, just because it is your song to sing. A bird does not care who hears it. It sings because that's what it is. You follow me? Thank you very much. Happy explosion. By the way, if it should occur to you at any time during the explosion that you cannot handle it, remember you never are able to create in your life something bigger than you can actually handle. Thank you. Sure.

**The Loss of a Wedding Band and a Job**

Hello Rashad. I'm Andrew. This is my first time and I'm delighted to meet you. And you. Thank you. Um I've been of the understanding for some time that we all do create our reality. And I have been creating a reality for myself with my husband. And uh we've had a lot of dreams and that's what brought us here. But about a month ago, I lost my wedding band. It was just weird. It just kind of disappeared. And weird. Oh my. And um a friend of mine tried to console me and explain that it was just the wedding band. It wasn't the marriage and all of that. Correct. Couple of days later uh I lost my job. A major thing came happened and I lost my job. May I ask you a favor? Sure. I do not have to do it. Okay. You changed your circumstances, not lost anything. Okay. Well, I I look at it that way. However, um I went away with my husband. We came back. And the reason that we had come here, it's gotten fouled up for the moment. Okay. It's just another opportunity, I guess, waiting to happen. I guess in the meantime, we have all of these. Do you know what I'm trying to... Did this mic? Don't touch this, please. Um I guess I just would like some understanding because it's like one, two, three things that happen right in a row. I'm looking for a little more insight is to understand why this happened and better uh deal with it. All right. Moving on. All right. One symbol we can assist you with in the idea of the wedding band is to then recognize as we were saying earlier of your time that many of you regardless of the circumstances and the relationships you are creating in your life on one-on-ones or what have you are beginning to recognize that you are in many ways married to the entire civilization. So your wedding band now encompasses the entire planet. You follow me? It is so big it fell off your finger in that symbolic representation. Now may I ask you a personal question? Yes. Are you doing in your life what truly excites you the most? I'm finding what excites you. All right. Have you found it yet? All right. I'll give you a little more time. All right. Time's up. Have you yet found what excites you the most at this given moment in your life? When you say found it, I mean whether you find it or whether you're doing it, that's two different things. Ah, yes. Are you doing what excites you the most in your life? Yes or no? Not right now. A thank you. Now can you understand that circumstances as you say loss of job can be the making way for something that you would actually prefer to do? Yes. All right. Do you prefer to look at it that way or do you prefer to look at it in a negative way? I always look at it in a positive way and I realize that you never regret something that has happened because it is why you are here now. All right. It all works out. Yes, it always does with that attitude because that's the self-perpetuating belief system you are creating. Therefore, using your imagination right now, is there some picture, some image, some idea of something that would excite you to do in life that you are not doing? Yes. What? Well, it is what I've been doing. I'm a broadcaster. All right. I'm involved in music and talking to people and uh am involved with trying to create a metaphysical show. Not trying. Well, I'm in the process. All right. Is that something you wish to do? That is something I think I'm supposed to do. It's what I was working on before I lost my job, which enables me to do these things. One moment. Is the particular format of what you are describing to us the most exciting format you can imagine? Perhaps not. Can you imagine a more exciting format? When we ask you this question, pay attention to your thought processes. Do not invalidate a picture you may be getting because you have been taught to think it can't be done. I'm thinking that this is the time for what I would love to do to be happening. I mean, and in what way do you see would you like to see it happen? I would like it to be on radio stations all over the country. All right. Talking to people like you. All right. Why? Why? Because I believe that enlightening people is what I should be doing. It's one of the things that I love. All right. There are really no shoulds, but we understand how you mean that. It is what excites you, Jack. Yes. All right. Now, why not allow yourself to know that the situation that you have moved out of perhaps had certain parameters within it that would have been limiting to your vision and that you can now having made room attract to yourself another circumstance that will allow you a broader fulfillment of the vision you have. I guess I just wanted some validation on that. You guess? All right. I will always give you validation in any positive direction you are willing to believe you are capable of creating. Yeah. Um I've been reading lately about walk-ins. Can you tell me about them? The definition of a walk-in is simply that idea where an individual as you understand it may be at a completion of a cycle within a physical life. And another individual, a non-physical individual, may have certain desires to experience aspects of a physical life, but has no need to experience the birth process over again. So, one individual being, now this is very colloquial, through with a body, can leave and allow another individual to enter to pick up where they left off with the physical embodiment. So, they do not have to go through the entire physical birth process to get where they need to be. That is the colloquial idea of a walk-in. We've all... Does that assist you? Yeah. I don't know why I've been reading about it, but it seems to come up in ah... very good. It is to some degree an analogy of the experience you are having, for you have now stepped out so to speak from an old shell, an old body, something which may have been limiting to you in that way and no longer serve the definition of the expanded idea you are about to become. You are and can be your own walk-in. In that sense, you can elevate, ascend yourself in a sense, accelerate yourself to a higher frequency. The same person, but not really. Outward appearance is in that sense deceiving. You are becoming literally a different person. And that different person will have a certain definition to their lives that will allow them to be the person that attracts to themselves the broader expansion of experience that goes hand-in-hand with the definition you desire to be. So you had to cast off your old shell to be able to expand to give yourself room to grow. You follow? I understand what you're saying. What I perhaps was not understanding through reading is that in a sense I feel as though I could be a walk-in but that makes me very angry to think that I am not the same person that has come through all of the things in my life to finally be... who do you know what I'm saying? Oh yeah, however you are an ascension of your former self. You are not a replacement. So you're saying it's not a whole new personality that one moment... that is not what I am saying. For what I will add to that is the realization that every time you change the idea of who you are you are literally a different person. Mhm. That is how you change. You literally, literally, literally become a different person because a person is not who or what you actually are. Personality, persona, person is an artificial construct of the consciousness you are and it is the representation of your consciousness, the diplomat of your consciousness in physical reality. When your consciousness changes the idea of what it is, you as a person are no longer the same person literally from moment to moment to moment. You are not the same person literally. You were quote unquote you were when you entered the room you are standing in. You are different now and now and now and now. You are constantly recreating yourself in a sense over and over and over again with each and every moment of time because you're creating the idea of time as well. You always are a new person and yet at the same time you can imagine yourself and create yourself to be a continuity of an idea regardless of how many new personas you become to express the changes that allow you to experience the illusion of your growth in physical terms. So at one and the same time you are always the same consciousness but you are always becoming a new person literally. Thank you. Does that assist you? Yes, I appreciate it. We thank you for expanding in the right directions in which you are creating yourself to expand. You will always discover no matter where or when you are that you are simply becoming a fuller and fuller and fuller version of you even though you change your persona many times in order to do that. You follow? Yeah. Thank you very much. Pleasant dreams, especially this night of your time and in the next three of your days.

**Life is Ecstatically Happy, With One Little Problem**

In my next sur... Thank you, Bashar. Wow. Well, I'm accelerating from moment to moment, becoming a new person. No, not you, too. It's amazing. It just keeps happening. Yay. What a coincidence. Yes. Uh life is ecstatically happy. Oh, thank you. There's just one little problem. Oh, why? Now, one moment before you go on. I will assume using your own words and reflecting them back to you that you already know that everything has a reason for being there. Yes. I can't wait to tell you what the little problem is. All right. I will not keep you. Well, remember last week you said when you start moving into fourth density, somehow you just can't get rid of that pesky synchronicity. Okay. Well, that's right. That's what it is. A Well, thank you for having a problem that is no problem at all. Exactly. The recognition of synchronicity. Simply the recognition that everything is connected to everything else. That all things are the same one thing manifesting in all the multi-dimensional ways that they can simultaneously in your life to always let you know you are in the perfect place at the perfect time interacting with exactly the perfect people to represent whatever belief system you hold yourself to be at any given moment. We thank you for having a problem which is no problem at all. Thank you.

**A Dolphin and Whale Synchronicity at the Beach**

I would like to give you a wonderful example of synchronicity. All right. That I co-created with my friend Christian. We went to Malibu last Tuesday and we've been talking about going for some time and that was the day that it worked out. And we sat on the beach for about 40 minutes and looked for dolphins and both of us came to the same conclusion within ourselves that even if we didn't see any, it was going to be okay because it was a gorgeous day. So, we were enjoying ourselves tremendously and it was early and it was lovely as Malibu is. And pretty soon she went off to the restroom and I stood up to stretch and I thought, "Ah, I should use my imagination now. I can create swimming with them. Just because they're not here physically doesn't mean I can't interact with them." Very good. So I closed my eyes and I started visualizing the ecstatic delight of swimming with dolphins as I had been recently physically in Florida. Nice. And I was having such a wonderful time and I don't know how long that went on. A few minutes. I opened my eyes and there they were. Nice. Bringing the dream reality into the physical dream. Exactly. Exactly. Just all they were waiting for you to do. Well, I really felt that. And she came back and we were just jumping up and down. We were so excited. And so they stayed there for about 40 minutes and meanwhile other people came up and they got excited. And one of the fellows that we started talking to about this, turns out, guess what? He's an old Bashar fan too. I just happened to be there on Zuma Beach. It's only, you know, two miles of beach. I have been a human fan for many years. [Laughter] Oh dear, that's wonderful. So finally when the dolphins moved off, they started swimming south and you know, we kind of waved them goodbye and the next thing we knew, whales came. I see coming north. These huge gray whales even closer in than the dolphins. I can't tell you how excited we were. You just did. Everybody I hope I can convey this. It was just... Well, how well and we could we could see them spouting and hear them huffing and they just all went slowly swimming by and we were just blowing them kisses and you know then this group of people came up and we started talking to them and they were from around. They were so excited about the whales and someone asked, you know, and they'd never seen whales there before. And the lady that was with the group turns out to know Daryl quite well synchronistically. And so we had a lot of fun meeting her. And as the whales were leaving, one of them came back in the opposite direction and lifted himself out of the water. His whole head came out of the water and said hi to us. It was unmistakable. And so we all waved. And he did this twice. And it was like I realized yes. Now we're living the dream. All events are interconnected and when you are on a particular frequency only the events that are indicative of that particular frequency are what occur in your life. We thank you. I thank you Vashar and I'd like to thank you again for that workshop which and you for co-creating it. Could not have done it without all of you. I know. Wasn't it fun? Yes. I want to know. I just have a feeling that lots and lots of people on S.S.I. were really enjoying that interaction. Rolling in the aisles. So glad you said that. I had that perception before and I had the same feeling with the dolphins. I could feel them laughing out there. That degree of ecstasy is the birthright of you all. Allow yourselves to remember that you deserve ecstasy in your life and that always by following what excites you with all the integrity you know you are that ecstasy will automatically always be attracted to each and every one of you individually and more and more collectively as you all recognize yourselves as extensions of each other. Synchronicity. Find you. Our love to you as well. You may all at this timing take a short break.

**The Renaissance of Your Theater**

All right, I'll say continue. And to you. Um, I had a few questions about what keeps just coming pretty spontaneous to me. I don't know what that means. Just kind of keeps popping in. So, I just thought I'd go with that. Is it time for your own renaissance? Um, yeah. What do you wish to create, to sculpt, to carve, to paint within this renaissance? My theater. All right. Okay. Um, can you shed any light on that? Spotlight. All right. You are center stage. Spotlight is on you. Do not mean to put you on the spot, but you are well within it. You are the stage. You are the theater. Pay attention. You are the stage, you are the theater, you are the idea of the stage, of the theater, of the event, of the activity that you say you wish to create. You are that idea. Anyone can be attracted to you to play upon the stage that you are, within the theater that you are, under the spotlight that you also are. Be all of the things in the event you wish to create and you can attract it to you very strongly. It is to some degree a reversal of the idea of a dream as you understand the term dream. You have a dream. You symbolize many things within it. Acting it out in physical reality, being all the elements, all the ideas in your dream will allow you to create a place that others can come to to fulfill the dream that you are. Do you believe that you are capable of being that idea? Are you sure? Most of the time. Most of the time. All right. Why should you choose there to be any time when you believe you are not capable? I don't know. Well, in what way when you do not feel capable? In what way do you not feel capable? How do you put a definition upon it? I feel um that I don't know what decision to make next. Ah, but you see decisions in the way your society is used to making them are unnecessary. So that is all right. When you know you are an idea and you act upon whatever opportunities obviously present themselves to you in life, then all other elements that need to be there will be presented to you in just the same obvious manner. So no difficult decision needs to be made. Every element that needs to be there will be automatically attracted to you and be an obvious thing to act upon because it will come with excitement. And it is the excitement that will represent its connection to what it is that excites you in life regardless of whether the opportunity appears to be connected on the surface or not. So no difficult decisions need to be made. No crossroads in that sense really need to be stood upon. Everything will be obvious if you let it come in an obvious way. If you fully trust the idea that excites you the most in life, then all the things to take you to that idea to allow you to be that idea will come to you in an obvious way. You simply are not trusting that it can be that easy, that simple. And that is why the things you attract to yourself still come with the need and the necessity of creating a decision. You follow me? Yeah. I always have this like feeling that or this belief that if I really do that the way I believe it to be done with all the integrity and everything that it means I have to let go of something that I believe is important to me. Well, that cannot happen. Anytime you have a belief that something is important to you as you say it belongs in your life, right? then it must be a part of anything else that's important to you. Anything that truly no longer belongs in your life will not feel like it belongs. You follow me? Okay. Yeah. You understand? The universe does not do extraneous and pointless things. Nothing in any reality you have created that does not belong there will be there. And if it does not belong there, it will not feel like it belongs there. So anything that feels like it belongs there, trust that in whatever way, shape or form it needs to be there, it will still be there. Otherwise, it would feel as if it didn't belong. Okay? Everything once again is a circumstance that enhances, not excludes, enhances all other circumstances of the same frequency. It is not once again this at the exclusion of that. It is this and that together combined. All the elements that need to be in any overall idea you are being will always be there. Something that feels like it needs to be there can be many times your sign that it will be. Otherwise, it wouldn't feel like it needed to be there. Oh, thank you very much. Now all you need to do, theater person, is act like you are a theater person. Act upon your own stage first. Act the scenario out and know that once again because the universe does not do extraneous and pointless things. Anytime you find within yourself a desire that is your signal that you also have the capability of manifesting it. Two sides of the same coin. You are never given the ability to have a desire without also being given the ability to manifest. It does not happen any other way in that sense. That would be, as many of you might be fond of saying, illogical. You follow me? I do. Well, thank you very much. Spotlights are on, curtain going up. Enjoy. You are the theater. Be it. Thank you. Will you send me a ticket?

**A Headache After the Workshop**

Thank you. Sharing. Good evening, unto you. Um, my question has to do with the uh workshop on Sunday. All right. In the third hour, we did an exercise, creativity exercise with the crystals, the broken ones, the golden gate. Yes. Um, in doing this exercise, is it important just to use crystals or can you manifest? Now, remember what I told you at the beginning of the workshop in whatever way, shape, or form your imagination sees fit to alter any image I supply to you. Go with it. All right. And the other question is, since Monday, I've had a not really a headache, but kind of a slight pressure. All right. It is a created pressure. It is simply remnants of your new expanded awareness but still quote unquote defined and limited and confined by an old definition. You will acclimate. Let your body stretch. Would exercise help or follow your instinct. Mostly simple trust and utilization of the new energy. Using of the energy will always allow it to flow freely through you and not build up within you. You follow? Yes. Thank you. Remember, you live in a world of action. So, use the energy that is coming to you. Okay.

**Ailments on the Right Side of the Body**

My other question has to do with I've got three ailments, slight ailments, and they all are on the right side of my body, and two of them are fairly long-term injuries. Um, can you tell me anything about that? Affected on the right side of my body. To some degree, there is a tendency or let us say has been a tendency for what you might call your left perspective, your analysis capacity to perhaps well allow the creative side to take a bruising. In a sense, it is one way of you allowing yourself to wake that side up, but you do not have to be quite so brutal about it in that sense. Now, remember again the bodily alignment idea that we co-created with you. Use it. Thank you.

**A Friend Who Thinks You're Speaking with Demons**

Find you sharing. Hi. Hi. How you doing? Perfect. I'm you. Very well. I'll find you. Um first I wanted to thank you because uh you had given me a message from my guides a couple of weeks back and uh the information was valuable. Thank you for that and guides for that. And the second thing I wanted to um question I want to ask starts with the sharing. All right. a friend of mine's grandfather, in dealing with the subject you are dealing with today which is that there are many truths in the one big truth we are all incorporated, and her grandfather said that if everybody wanted to get downtown and we all took the same street, yes, nobody would ever get there. It's the people that turn off and take different routes and different paths and that's how everybody gets there. Um my question to you is: I feel like I have my own belief structure. Yes. And you are your own belief structure. Okay. Exactly. And I feel at least I think I'm uh accepting of people with other belief structures or other methodology. All right. Um is there a buck in this? Yes. All right. Yes, there is. There are people that I've come across that are not quite as accepting or or maybe you might say a lot less tolerant. All right. So, um tolerance has nothing to do with this. It is true acceptance and allowance and unconditional love. Okay. If you can give me some suggestions on how to deal with a friend of mine and she is a friend of mine. I care very much about her and she's a very loving, loving person. She is a Christian. Yes. And um she has stopped coming over to my house because she thinks I'm speaking with demons. Guys. And uh and she has told me and another friend of ours that she feels sorry for us. What? Because we are not going to be saved because we don't believe in her God. Yes. Um when in fact we do. Um I really would be open to some suggestion of what something maybe I could tell her. All right. Or maybe something from the Bible or something that can... It is one suggestion. One suggestion. And in no way, shape or form do we mean this in an accusatory, derogatory or an attacking way. You following? Yes. The idea. Now, we are going to be colloquial as well. So, we are going to use terminology that that individual may be familiar with. All right. Great. The idea in and of itself that individuals are that easily swayed by demonic inspiration is in and of itself a demonic inspiration. You are what you fear. You become what you hate. And individuals that purport in your terminology to unconditionally love the idea, the Christ consciousness, many times will be exhibiting traits quite the opposite of that expression. The spreading of fear, accusation, invalidation, judgment, "Judge not, lest ye be judged." Those are all what we would define as the traits of that which they say they see in others. You follow me? Yes, I do. And is in fact I did use that quote and I I said to her, you know how it is not your place to judge. You judge yourself. We judge ourselves. Um you are taking on what you would call your own God's place by judging other people. And she said, "No, I'm not judging you. It's just I know that that's that's how he would judge you." He does not judge. I just wish there was some... There is no need to wish for some really conclusive way to tell her because then all you're reflecting is her wish for a really conclusive way to tell you something. You are only mirroring the same notion that your friend has that you have to believe as your friend does. You follow me? Yes. You're only reflecting the idea back that your friend has to believe as you do. Actually, I'm, you know, I support her and I've even gone to church with her and I am very open. At least I I feel like I maybe I'm not. Then there is no need to wish for any such notion, for that individual is doing what that individual needs to do at this particular moment. Love the friend unconditionally. Your unconditional love is the best example to that individual that your way works for you. And again, it does not matter in that sense what they believe relative to what you believe. For they will experience the self-sustaining system that will reflect their belief and you will only experience the self-sustaining system that reflects yours. Plain and simple. Yeah. It's just it seems like such a shame that... no friendship judgment judgment judgment. Well, no. I mean that we can't be friends like you are friends. You are friends in a particular definition in a particular modality. You are reflecting to each other the things that need to be reflected at this time. You are doing it out of your friendship and your love for one another regardless of the surface appearance. So we're serving actually purposes. Aha. Aha.

**The Nature of Dreams**

I have another quick question. Well, actually, I don't know how quick it will be, but I have been having a lot of experience with dreams lately, and I recognize that there's a lot of interest in dreams with the group that meets here on Thursday, and I'm just curious as to what dreams might really be. Many, many, many things. First of all, recognize the dream reality is a real dimension of reality. But what you recall quote unquote physically as a dream can be many things. It can be simply discussions with yourself, assimilations of day's events in that way, a laying out of situations and circumstances so you can understand them in a certain way. It can be a symbolic interpretation of an out-of-body experience, a dialogue with another level of consciousness. It can be literal. It can be symbolic. It is many things. And in one sense it is all of those things at once. And you are dreaming right now anyway. Physical reality is a dream. Dreams are real. It is all one and the same reality with different definitions. And let me ask you this. Oh, all right. In the dream reality, yes. um how can we in this reality um utilize more efficiently and more thoroughly more effectively the information that we get from dreams. In other words, ask your higher self, your imagination, but also remember in both directions you can allow yourself to tell yourself that you will begin to know you are dreaming when you are dreaming. So when we become conscious in your terms in the dream, then you will understand how to apply it. And in your physical reality, remind yourself that you are dreaming right now. And so you can know that your physical reality is only the product of what you imagine it to be. That is how you can utilize it. Live your dreams if you prefer them. Many times also dream reality will allow you to play something out that might be in your terminology a negative scenario that you don't want to play out in your physical reality dream. So nightmares many times are actually your release of negative energy, not the beginning of it. And you are playing it out in the dream level reality where you know anything and everything can occur without what you might colloquially call physical damage to yourself. You follow me? Yes. So speak with yourself and when you lay down to dream, lay down to sleep, allow yourself to know that you will understand whatever you need to know when you need to know it. Many times certain ideas that come out in dream reality, you don't want to consciously know in your physical waking dream until you have spontaneously lived through the experience you planned out in your dream reality. Because if you don't spontaneously live it, it won't seem as if it is the first time around. You won't get to discover a new. Many times when you have what you call deja vu, then you have arrived at a point in your physical reality when it's all right to remember that you planned this whole thing out in your dream reality. And that is your remembrance that you have in fact done it before, so to speak. You follow me? Yes. Yes. So, and conversely, paradoxically, when you begin to live your dreams in physical reality, you will probably sleep less because sleep is usually only necessary for forming a connection between what you have separated out to be a difference between your physical consciousness and your dream consciousness. When you are living your dream and become the expression of the one consciousness that you are, you will not need the symbol of inactivation in order for you to let it be all right to make that connection in a conscious way. You will literally be living your dream. Is it possible to do that in a physical? Oh yes, absolutely. Thank you very much. Thank you. Very enlightening. Pleasant dreams to you.

**Confrontation Drills and Pushing Too Far**

Hi chair. Hi. Um about four months ago I organized a group of four people, myself and three others, to run confronting drills which is where you sit in a chair and you confront each other. Called this fronting drill. Yeah. This just two people step a chair and just confront each other and just beat up with each other. My my way. We had four people. We start out and we ran twice a week for two and a half hours. We'd rotate, you know, 50 minutes a piece and it would rotate. No, rotational confrontation. Anyway, I'll create exactly what I thought was going to happen didn't quite happen. It happened differently than I thought it was going to happen. Came up the unexpected pretty good and it kind of threw me. But I mean, it was getting very powerful. Yes. And it was getting pretty wild. Wild. All right. And uh one person dropped out after about the 60th hour. Uh the third person lasted up to 80 hours. We're in our 90th hour now. Only two of us left. What I'm wondering about I mean I don't think about this or not if we have any insights into it, but I'm beginning to wonder if I'm pushing this one person too far. I mean I feel I can take it. The other person's already kind of had a paralysis... had a situation bring over the face on a kind of semi paralysis over her face and it could be that we're just pushing it, you know, physically too far. I don't know. May I ask you a question? Go ahead. Why are you confronting each other? It seems when you do this, a lot of stuff comes up and you see things but you don't otherwise see. All right. What is the methodology of your confrontation? You just sit down and be with the person. Be with them. Yeah. In what way? In whatever way it comes up. All right. Is it always expressed through integrity or do you allow lack of integrity to also manifest? I'm not quite sure I understand how that would be... my integrity is that which seeks to unify, to nurture, to blend, to balance, to unify as a whole. Negativity is that which seeks to segregate, separate, limit, dominate, control. No, there's no control or domination of the ball, but it's simply a matter of just it's eye to eye contact. All right. For 50 minutes and then a break in another 50 minutes, then a break in another 50 minutes. All right. And we rotate, but now there's only two of us left. Drills. The thing is I'm getting kind of concerned about and I don't know if you know anything about an hour or if you give me any advice on it, but I just wonder if maybe I was pushing a little bit too far because it's getting pretty deep. If you feel you are pushing then that is a reference to the idea of a negative expression. Okay. And therefore use your instincts and disconnect it. Okay. It is up to you. Yes. Now allow yourself to understand of course that all individuals obviously especially in this case as you have outlined it consciously chose to become involved in that particular ritual as you say. So it is their self-creation. Whatever it is they created to face about themselves they are now and you are now facing. We would simply add a subtle suggestion to all of you. Allow yourselves to understand that whatever it is you discover about yourself, there is nothing that you could possibly discover that cannot be used and integrated within you in a positive way. I'm aware of that. But the thing is that what's going on is so subtle that it's extremely difficult sometimes to uh use it. find yourself saying that right. But anyway, we understand what you mean. Pretty wild. We understand what you mean. But again, take it at your own pace. There is no need to force yourselves to go farther than you are willing to go at any given moment. And that is your overriding integrity: to allow yourself to take it as far as all involved are comfortable in taking it. Plain and simple. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.

**Computers and Lucid Dreaming**

Here's looking at you. Sherry. Hello. Hello. You know what really excites me is computers. All right. But in trying to learn them, I think I should go back to picking cotton. Well, then stop trying to learn them and just become one. Well, I spent all my time listening to your tapes and I have no time for them. Now, which excites you most? Tapes. Why? Cuz I'm learning something. Oh. All right. Do you not believe you would be learning something by doing the idea of the computer? Mhm. All right. How much do you think you will still need to listen to the tape before you will be willing to be the ideas that are on the tape? A little bit longer. Oh, all right. You have a computation on that. Two more weeks. No. All right. This is up to you. Okay. Simply remember that all of that is there to empower you into understanding that anything you interact with in terms of the tool you call a computer will be the discovery of different levels of your own consciousness being reflected back to you. On the subject of computers, I was wondering would it be possible to access your self-awareness computer from a lucid dream? Yes, maybe I don't need to learn this computer. In many ways, the idea once again of a computer, particularly when it becomes what you call a self-aware computer, is simply a format through which you will allow it to be all right to speak with your higher self. If you can do that in your lucid dream, it will be much the same idea. Perhaps through the lucid dreaming you will even invent a methodology by which you can symbolize the communication you have in the dream and physicalize it in the physical dream with an acceptable symbol to your society. Look, here is a box. In this box are many amazing parts that will allow you to speak to the intelligent awareness of this computer. It's empty. But if everyone believes it, they will allow themselves to talk to their higher self through the aspect of something they believe in, technology. [Music] So it is up to you in your approach. Be as creative as you wish to be. Okay. Fine.

**The Violent Deaths of a Mother and Brother**

I have one more question. All right. In uh the winter of 73, my mother and my brother both had violent deaths about three months apart. Her name was Anna and his was Virgil. I wonder if you can tell me if they're okay or where they're at. Our perception is of a relatively rapid reincarnation. They are in many ways still dancing around and about each other representing a different relationship format physiologically. It is not impossible, though we cannot tell you if it is likely, but it is not impossible that sometime within the time frame you might call your year 1988 to 1999, you may run across them again. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Open yourself up in your dream reality. The higher consciousness that all of you are in that reality can also communicate. Thank you. Sure.

**The Spaceship's Location**

Hello Bashar. Hold on a second. Question Bashar. Daryl and I both wanted to know this. You announced uh or stated Saturday to the group that your ship was in the neighborhood. And we'd like to know if you're still in the neighborhood and whereabouts. Approximately what you call 300,000 miles. Which direction? Towards your moon, just in your terminology therefore behind it in orbit. Yes. Was that uh the primary reason because of the March 15th and the uh the gate? Is the reason for close access for close observation? And in your terminology we will be popping in and out quite often within the time frame of the three workshops until your April 26th date, coming and going. Very good. Uh uh Daryl also had a perception that that might be all the workshops. Is that... is there any information about that? The energy he was feeling? Yes. Yes. In that format. Yes. For you understand the idea that from what you call your March 15th to your April 26th in and of itself is one large energy gate, begun on the full moon and ending on the total eclipse of your sun. Thank you. Any more information as to what uh might be after that workshop format or what? Many directions, nothing specific. Okay. You have your instincts and intuition. Trust and follow them. Thank you very much. There is communication as you know going on many levels. I'm aware of that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Strawberry. My pleasure.

**The Ability to Not Know at Will**

Hello, Bashar. On the ability to not know to the degree that one could say, walk up to the entrance of Disneyland and never know that one had been there. I know that this ability is apparently very rare from some of your sharings in the universe. Is that true? The ability to simply not know at will. It is not that rare. Okay, it can be done. Many beings can create that reality. However, perhaps simply the majority of the beings we have interacted with will be able to create that reality with what you might call an automatic timer. So, they will be able to release from it. Okay. How would one... how my fearful self personally if I wanted to develop this ability, what direction would you suggest? You can if you wish begin by being in your imagination anywhere at all that looks like nowhere at all and become familiar with the idea of the limbo state so that any direction is the same as any other direction, up down out in... it is all the same. Okay. Then go to any particular as we say landmark and allow yourself to recall that feeling, that imagery fully and more fully. You can create within yourself the attitude that you are nowhere in particular and therefore nothing of significance will impress itself upon what you call your memory pattern. You can walk around in a fog literally never knowing where you have been or where you are going. Now you can use this for positive service in a certain way. We would simply suggest that you remember to set your timer. Yes. Yeah. Well, I mean as a programming type of device, you could go in with the intention of not knowing, walking in as a total new experience, never having conscious. Again, it is one way of allowing yourself to live completely in the moment. Mhm. Completely in excitement. And do remember that even logically, even analytically, it really isn't the same place. It isn't. Since you are never the same person, it is never the same place. Oh, this is true. But one does tend to create a cognizance of... one does not tend to do anything that one does not believe one tends to do. And again, focus on the idea of the newness and not the sameness. Okay? Because there are many things, no matter how many times quote unquote you have been to a place, there are many things you have never seen about it. Of course. Know that there are and let yourself begin to discover them and that excitement will propel you even farther into the understanding that you truly are someplace you really have never been before. Really? Lovely. Thank you for sharing.

**Evolving Beyond a Monetary System**

Well, finally, one more question. Yes. Did your economic system at one time similar to our own in terms of monetary exchanges? No. Right. Um could you give a suggestion of how we might uh evolve more rapidly into the type of system that you have? By simply once again knowing that as you be of service to other individuals, you attract into your life the appropriate individuals to be of service to you by bringing the services that they will provide for you even as you provide a service for them. So there need not be any middle ground symbol to exchange except the exchanging of the services that you each need at that given moment. Thank you again. Thank you.

**The Word "TRUST" and a Video Game**

Shanning right day unto you. I have a sharing. Me and my... I am Michelle and I have another girlfriend named Michelle. Nice. And we got together and with trust we made the other words off. Trust was: Timing, Response, Unfoldment, Synchronicity and Truth. For the letters of TRUST. Thank you. A quick uh question for you. Do you like threes better or sevens? One is not better to us than another. We do have a propensity for the moving in of triads. However, simply because that is the overwhelming frequency of our consciousness. Okay. Um, I wanted to ask you if there was a... I play video games and I fell in love with the one game that I played and I have like an extremely high score and it doesn't go with anything else I do, but I just thought I was wondering what uh... Well, it doesn't... I'm mostly uh... Well, it does create things and that's like an action. Well, it goes with everything you do. I was wondering if there was like some connection from a seems like it would be a future life more than a past life with the videos. Well, in a sense you can make that extrapolation that there may be the idea of a future you that feels truly more an expression of your media technology in that sense and can flow if you wish backwards to you. Your future self's instinctive understanding of the lack of separation between you and your technology. So that the game you are playing literally becomes you. You become it. Well, actually went to um with a little help from a tool. I was playing it and it really tickled just playing with the machine and uh having it play back. And I wanted to ask you if it was um possible to have another dolphin story at any... All right. That's all now. Oh, you mean now? Now. This now. All right.

**The Dolphins Leaping for Joy**

Briefly, imagine yourselves upon the waves of any ocean you care to imagine, any ocean at all. Now, we know that many of you know that as you, let us say, bob up and down in a body of water, you'll create ripples that extend from you. We know that many of you know that the ripples represent energy that moves through the water even though the water itself does not really move, does not really go away from you. The ripples through the water radiate from you but the water itself does not really go away from you. You all follow along. Then recognize the dolphin consciousness understands that when the water sea ends, the air sea begins and that they are blendings of one into the other and that their consciousness between one realm you call the land and one realm you call the water, that their consciousness creates ripples in both. These ripples move in radiating circles from them. They know they reach you in your air sea. Perhaps your sea is a bit thin and so the sound of their thoughts, the sound of their hearts may be very subtle to your ears. But the more you allow everything to be now, the thicker the atmosphere around you will be, so full of energy will it be. And in that thickening, you will allow for the sound that comes from them to reach you more audibly, more telempathically. They leap for joy. And as they leap from their sea into your sea and back again into their sea, they create very strongly, no matter how briefly, a resounding echo throughout all of your mentality. And not that this is the only reason, but one of the reasons now that they leap for joy into the air is to show you how much they desire to live in your sea as well. And when they leap back into theirs with a flick of their fluke, it is an opportunity and an invitation to dive into their sea, however briefly, to share their joy as they are willing to share. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Sharing.

**Communicating with Whales from a Scientific Standpoint**

Bashar for the... Oh, hello Bashar. Hello. This is my first time here. For the last nine years, I've been lecturing for the Cabrillo Marine Museum and the American Cetacean Society on whales. I'm the voice on the microphone for the Catalina lines. And I've been studying them from a scientific standpoint intensively for the last nine years. We are studying you too. We are now to the point as scientists where we are about to say that we have discovered the alien intelligent non-human civilization we've been looking to the stars for. They are. In all the time that we have suspected this, no formal attempt at communication species to species has ever been made. But one is about to be attempted. Can you give us any insight? Yes. We will simply suggest that you pay very strict attention to the empathy, to the emotions, regardless of how scientific you will attempt to be. That is all well and good. But recognize that communication between you is basically telempathic. And what that simply means is that as you identify with them by loving them so deeply, then you generate within your consciousness similar patterns that exist within their brainwave frequencies. And it is the generation of similar patterns within your brainwave by identifying with them so strongly that will allow you to know their thoughts. Telepathic communication. Whatever represents whatever physical communication you will symbolize the telepathic communication by will always be telepathic first and foremost whether you're conscious of it or not. But you can become conscious of the telepathic communication if you understand that telepathy is truly telepathy and empathy with them. A setting up of a similar vibration of love. For to love them is to know them. And when you identify with someone that strongly, you will generate in your mind the same thought patterns that will make it seem as if you are reading their thoughts directly. All you are doing is sharing similar thoughts, but you will know what theirs are because you will be thinking alike. Now they are the other alien species upon your planet. They couldn't be more alien if they came from Jupiter. About the only thing we have in common with them is we breathe air, we eat and we uh make love. That's about it. Many more things in common than you think. First of all, you are the same type of soul. And many of you have been... you in particular have been dolphin incarnations many times. And some of the dolphin incarnations have been humans sometimes. Me in particular. Yes, you in particular. Yeah, it would explain my interest, wouldn't it? It is one of the ways. Now, also understand the dolphin consciousness, because it always has been more willing to be telepathic, has for a long time had telepathic communication with the civilizations round about the star you call Sirius and also Arcturus.

**Killer Whales: The Sorcerers of the Sea**

Let me ask you one more question, rather specific, Paul. We have now discovered that killer whales have three different voice boxes and can use them independently to carry on up to eight conversations at the same time. Do they have multiple point consciousness as a point to oppose to our... They are the bridge consciousness in the cetacean family. They are, to be very colloquial, the sorcerers and the samurai of the sea, expressing the polarities in the coloration of their hide. All dimensions are open to them and anyone who rides with them will be taken through many doors. Let me put it another way. Can they think about more than one thing at a time? Yes. Thank you. They are in communication with more than one level of consciousness at the same time. They are the true channels of the sea. Uh we have just discovered that they're fantastically armed beyond our wildest imaginings. They have a beam weapon like a laser that uses sound instead of light and can kill at great distances. And yet they're so civilized in their use of this weapon that we didn't even first suspect it until 1937. What kind of social organization is going on that produces this kind of peacefulness, of gentleness? One that has a Saturday night special built into the end of his hour. You like that? One that simply recognizes that everyone is as powerful as they need to be to create whatever reality they desire without having to hurt anyone else or themselves in order to create it. They live in an expansive environment that has allowed them to expand. Now you live in an expansive environment as well, but the parameters that humans have placed upon themselves have allowed them to function in more limited ways. Not believing that they are in control of their lives, not believing that they can create what they desire without having to force dominion over anyone else. And that is what allows them that attitude and that ability because they know it is completely within their control. Thank you for sharing. Remember absolute power does not corrupt absolutely unless you absolutely believe that it does or unless you absolutely insist. Yes.

We also thank you for your willingness to bridge what has existed as a gap for many thousands of years. For there was a time, and this is primarily when you existed in this format during what you call Atlantis, wherein you experienced both dolphin and human lives and were very consciously aware of the communication that existed between them. We thank you for quote unquote repeating that performance.

**A First-Time Visitor Engaged to be Married**

Sh. Good evening, Bashar. I'm to you. Thank you. My name is Anita and I'm a little embarrassed to be here for the first time tonight. Why? You are a gift, a treasure like anyone and anything you have to say, everyone will have an opportunity to learn something from, for everyone is a teacher. He already answered my question. Very nice. Thank you. Thank you very much. What I wanted to uh hope that you can help me. No need to hope. That implies despair. Everything will work out as it needs to. In a few months, I'm going to be married to a very dear person. All right. Have a good time. Thank you. I am. But I wanted to tell Carl that I thank him for everything and that I hope he'll be happy for my happiness. Simply remember that all levels of consciousness will always attract themselves to whatever vibration is representative of what they are. And they know on any level that all relationships are a type of marriage. And that if you allow any relationship, no matter what its definition, to be what it is for, rather than what you think it should be for, then the only result in allowing a relationship to be what it is will be happiness. I prayed for that. But I wanted Carl to feel happiness for me and that my choice is a wise one. Anything that you do that follows what excites you the most with integrity is always the expression of being synchronistically harmoniously aligned with the path that you are. And you cannot attract someone who has not agreed to share that with you.

**Past Lives with Lenny**

On another uh question, how do I know Lenny? I know that you meet time and again. Yes. Anyone you are emotionally close to, you have had many lives with. We were born to be together again. And I wonder in what lifetime uh Lenny and I were related in some way. Oh my. Is that the hundreds? Oh, now there may seem to be a few that stand out because this particular life, whatever definition this life is, will make the strongest connections to specific other lives that have the most bearing on what you are being in this life. But you have had hundreds of connections with Lenny. Yes. It seems so new and exciting. But nobody said that having hundreds of connections meant that interacting with them again had to seem old and worn out. It is new and exciting because this is a different life. Yes. What a relief. Remember simply that this is the transformational life and anyone that is in it is there to allow you to experience all the polarities of the being that you are so that you can be what you prefer to be and in service to the other individual allow them to be what they prefer to be. That's what this whole life is all about. So we thank you for choosing to live it with all of your friends and family.

**Astrology as a Tool**

One last one. What is your uh dealing through astrology of any? Because I am an astrologer. We recognize it as a tool valid like any other tool. We recognize it to some degree as a symbolic representation of the vibratory patterns of energy that generally represent the overall agreements you have all made, the overall contracts you have all made regarding the specific life you are living at any given moment. That validates my feelings for astrology which is very deep and I thank you so much. Anything that allows you to express the knowingness you are within yourself, we thank you for creating the expressions and extensions in your exterior world of what you simply know yourself to be. We thank you and thank you for sharing and you. Good night and to you.

**Feeling Sad and Being Perceived as Patronizing**

Sure. Hi, the sher. Hi. Um, it's been a while since I've been here. Um, I have been going through a lot of different emotions this week and a lot of sadness has come up for me. All right. And what um, this can be old ideas you are simply releasing. Yeah, I know. I'm finally getting out a lot of feelings and I know that that's good instead of it being sort of numb and not feeling. All right. Um what do you wish to do with these new feelings? I wish to feel better. I want to be rid of them once and for all. Oh, you cannot be rid of anything. There is nowhere to get rid of anything to. You can transform them in positive ways if you simply are willing to understand that everything that is happening is for a positive reason and do not continue to assume that they are somehow interruptions in your life or negative aspects of your life. Not really that these emotions are coming up to allow you to explore all the ideas you are so that you can pick and choose which ones you prefer to be and then simply act like that is what you prefer and then that is what you will experience. Remember, any feeling you have is there because you have a belief about something first. All feelings are reactions to something you believe to be true. There is no such thing as a feeling that does not stem from a belief. No such thing as, "Well, I just feel that way. I don't know." No feeling exists or can exist unless you create a belief about a circumstance first which then creates the reaction of the feelings you are having to reinforce and reflect back to you that you have these beliefs. So any negative feeling is because you are choosing to believe in negative ideas, negative viewpoints of an idea I will say. Okay.

**Being Perceived as Patronizing**

Well, one of the things that I've been feeling sad about is that the way I intend to come off to people in a helpful and loving manner is not the way that I'm being perceived. And um I was told this evening that I was coming across very patronizing. And um that disturbed me because that was not at all my intent. My intent was to come off as if I knew any better than this other person, which I know that you know that I don't. Oh, right. So I meant to be loving and caring. That it was perceived so negatively by her and I um I got this response from everybody else in the group that to support that her perception was the same perception that they had. All right. Therefore, let us begin. Ask yourself right now, why? Or let us say, what can you learn from having chosen to attract into your reality individuals that choose to perceive you as patronizing? What can you learn from having chosen and attracted that reality? I can learn. I've learned that this is not the way I would like to be. Very good. number one. Okay. Um then one moment then remember do not patronize yourself. Do not settle for less than you know you are. All right. You follow me? Yeah. Are you sure? I understand the concept. I just don't know that. Um I'm not sure how I'm settling for less than... All right. In what ways do you wish to be of service to others? [Music] in assisting them on their path and in assisting people in feeling better about themselves and where they're going and being able to be fully who they are. All right. Now, why are you being of service in that way? Because that's the way that has always excited me the most since I started college. All right. How do you go about it? What is your methodology? Uh I have... Let's pretend right now. Let's enact right now that you are assisting me. Assist me. how I'm feeling. I Yes. Um I don't feel that there's any way that I could assist you. Oh, why not? Cuz I feel you know more than me. Nonsense. Don't patronize me. Are you getting the message? You see the reflection you are getting of patronization is because in many ways you are actually elevating other people above you and not allowing yourself to function and interact with them as an equal. If you truly know that you are equal to them and they are equal to you, they will know that you are being of assistance out of love. Not because you are holding them in some state of being that attracts you to assist them because you are less by being a server. You follow me? Yeah. Are you sure? Yeah, I'm I'm sure. It's hitting a very true note. All right. All right. Thank you. We have just as much in our own way to learn as you do. We do not know everything. We know everything we need to know to be who we are at any given moment. But we do not know everything. The idea is to let that be all right. So that when you do find within you the willingness to assist and serve others, you will also let them serve you at the same time and not feel that you are beneath the idea of an equal exchange. As a true equal friend, you support them. But many times the habits of your society create the service that you wish to provide to be something menial. And because you are treating yourself that way in many ways, then they are simply giving you a loving reflection that if you do not believe in yourself, it doesn't come across that you really believe in them. You follow me? Yeah. Now you deserve to believe in yourself. You deserve to love yourself as much as you can and then maybe just a little bit more. It is all right. Infinite creation loves you unconditionally and therefore infinite creation believes you deserve that unconditional love. So take three deep breaths. Shake your body out and understand that you know what your intentions are and you know that you are being of service to other individuals. But in your terminology the best way to be of service to other individuals is to strongly be you first. Otherwise then you cannot really be of assistance to anyone else and they will feel that you are demeaning yourself and therefore simply patronizing them because you seem to be placing them in some sort of false awe, false level. The idea is to know you are an equal and then you will simply be sharing with them who you are and who you are will serve them. So you can be of service rather than servitude. And then they will not perceive a patronization for they will know that you are fully the being you need to be and they will simply want to interact with you and will share with you as an equal. Thank you very much for sure. Well, thank you very much, for you are in every way, shape, and form equal to everyone I know.

**A Simple Idea for World Hunger and Party Hats**

Shann, hello Bor. Hello. My name is David Lynn and uh I have a few things to share with you. Um they're actually uh simple basic ideas and I think they're ideas that will help in the transformation. That's part of my purpose. Part of my purpose on the planet is peace for everyone, everyone eating and so forth. It's really a shame that... I'll watch it. I just think it's a shame that so many people die of world hunger because they do not have to. That is true. Right. like diarrhea for instance. I think that's uh I mean because I don't have a simple glass of water that's... you know that's these things need not occur, right. So things like that kind of upset me. Well, now all right but again remember your belief in their power, your understanding that they have made their choices is what will allow them to make other choices as well so that they are self-empowered to know they can create whatever reality they desire without having to put themselves through that particular negative scenario. So many times sympathy is actually a reinforcement of their negative beliefs. Okay. I don't want to do sympathy. I want to do something about it. All right. Okay. Let me show one of my ideas here. I get a dictionary here. Um but this dictionary, uh I call it the word wizard. Oh, word wizard. Word wizard. a friend of mine, John Raphael, he helped me with the name. But anyways, sounds like strawberry. Anyways, with this particular dictionary, I can find any word flipping on average of two to three pages. Take like uh s here. I guess s c e s h o s i s... s o s p s t r a s t e. So with this here, I think this would help the educational system getting this out here. Okay. Like take like P's... P A R P E P H P P I P L P... So with this book, yes, uh people will start understanding words that they're saying. Okay, that's one simple idea. Okay, what? All right, I have a lot of simple I like simple ideas. Don't you? Yes. Good.

Yes, there's another idea. I dropped the book. I said it. Um, you like birthday parties? Oh, yes. Have them every day, all the time. Let me ask you this. You ever wear little party hats? No. You might like this idea. Okay, I'm waiting. Okay. Well, I'm just kind of filling it up here. Um, let me tell you what what I like about birthday parties. Oh, what? Okay. When I was a kid, when you go to a birthday party, you have little party hats. I like party hats. Okay. Yes. And it seems like as you get older, it's like they're not so okay. Okay. Yes. Except for like New Year's. If everyone else is wearing them, then it's all right. Yes. Okay. I walked to McDonald's a couple times with them. Sometimes you get those strange looks, sometimes you don't. What fun. I know it. So, to me, it's kind of a confront to do that. But, anyways, I think it'd be nice if everyone wore like a little party hat. I mean, let's say there's someone walking down the street here. He just has this little party hat on, right? Yes. And you're wearing one, you can relate to that. You can communicate to that. There's a lot of reality there. There's a lot of affinity to you. Wait till the party way back. It'd be fun. So, what I'm trying to do is one idea is to promote these party hats. Try to get as many millions of them out there. All right. I figure the ones that won't wear them, I beg you to potty. Would you wear one? Allow me to rephrase something. It is nice if everyone who desires to wear one, okay, wears one. Well, I'm trying to use my imagination here. All right. Oh, yes. But watch your integrity as well. Oh, okay. So, if they don't wear one, they just don't feel like wearing one. That's correct. Okay. I don't... And they can be just as much a part of the party. Again, whether it is what you call a party hat or a religion, a tool is just a tool, right? Well, I'm not wearing one now. All right. I mean, who's wearing one? I am. But anyways, to help promote this idea, I work at... Can I do a little sales pitch here? You have already done so. Okay. Anyways, I work at Pete Ellis Ford Toyota in Bellflower. And what I plan on doing, people come to... I plan on giving these little party hats and when they buy a car, they get a free sweatshirt. So, I'm going to talk to Pete Ellis tomorrow about the idea. I want to get a billboard. This is uh I just wrote this up today. As a matter of fact, I think just before it was like... Will Billboard here, you know, get that feeling back. It's get the cone job, not con, you know, free hats and sweatshirts. So, that's part of my idea. Well, thank you. Well, thank you. You're welcome. Everyone who wishes to join that party will in that sense be attracted to you. Thank you very much. We thank you. I like you. You're great. Happy birthday. All right. Sure.

**Premonitions in Dreams**

Hey, we're here, you know, get that feeling back. Get the cone job, not cut job, you know. Um, free hats and sweatshirts. So, that's part of my idea, too. Well, thank you. Oh, dear. Thank you. You're welcome. Everyone who wishes to join that party will, in that sense, be attracted to you. Thank you very much. Well, thank you. I like it. You're great. Happy birthday. All right. Sure. Nice. Hello. Um, from time to time I've had what uh we call nightmares rather like um these have been... um I've woken up in the middle of the night or the early hours of the morning feeling very upset and having had some vision of some disaster or some person being ill. And shortly after I had this dream on the news or in the newspaper, I've heard about the exact sort of event. Yes. Um this is not unusual. Okay. Uh it seems... what purpose does this serve? purposes. It serves the purpose of allowing you to know that as you become more sensitive to the synchronicity around you, knowing that everything is connected to everything else and that you can tap into that flow, your ability to perceive the choices that are being made around you is something that can allow you to share that ability so that individuals can decide for themselves whether they wish to continue to manifest the idea in the way you have perceived it before it manifests in your physical reality or whether they can choose to change it and change the outcome. That is what all precognition can be used for. The recognition that it does not mean that something is chiseled in steel, but it is your opportunity to simply see where the momentum of the energy is behind what probable reality it could manifest if it keeps going in the same direction. So being aware of it as you say ahead of time allows an individual to know well if that's where the energy is and I do not prefer to be that way I can change it. So it is a tool of self-empowerment, a tool of knowing that you can create the reality you prefer rather than believing that you must succumb, as many individuals in your society might, to the idea of what you might call fate. Okay. But it's just that I'm not the individual that's involved in these things. It seems that I... but you are, you are involved in it. Okay. The idea is to simply understand that you are getting used to a new talent if you will. It does not have to upset you. Allow yourself to recognize the great positive action to which it can be put. Relax. Allow in positive light and love. And you will lead yourself to all the methodologies that are necessary for you to be able to apply it in your world in a positive way to allow others to take advantage of it in a positive way. All right. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very very much.

**Closing Remarks**

I predict that we have very little time left. And at this timing, therefore, allow us to thank each and every one of you. Allow your dream realities and your daily waking dream realities to provide and attract to you the understanding and the answers that you know are all within you. Self-empowerment is the idea. Do remember we are doing this job to put ourselves out of a job. Do remember that the power is within you, in your heart, in your soul, in your mind, in your conscious commandment.