---
title: "Old friends and new friends"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1987-04-16
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 145
---


Of all the changes that are taking place upon your world and within each and every one of you in this life in allowing yourself to know that you are encountering and will continue to encounter many old friends, friends you have shared many other lifetimes with.

You may also find that there will be new friends, perhaps friends that you have not had so many interactions with over the course of various lifetimes in your civilization, but who now resonate at the same frequency that you have created yourself and your world to be. They will feel familiar to you even though they are in many ways new. These old friends that still resonate according to the same vibratory frequency that you have created your life to be, together with the new friends, will begin to reinforce each other's vibratory frequency to build the world and accelerate the world you now in your hearts and minds prefer to experience as your Earth. Many perhaps what you might term old friends may at this timing not make the transition with you, but recognize even though you may in this transformational time perceive that some of what you considered to be old friends may pass by the sidelines, they are not in your terminology gone forever. Each and every individual progresses at their own rate, different from every other individual by definition. You need not necessarily focus upon the idea that they are not exactly with you at exactly the same pace at the same time.

The overall time of the transformation is perfect. The overall bubble in which you are all changing is one event. Therefore, you need not worry about the various rates at which different individuals within that bubble may be progressing. Simply feel the overall energy, the overall direction, the overall essence attitude of the transformation, and just know everyone is a part of that change in their own way, at their own rate, in their own timing. Everyone plays their part, and each individual that plays a part in that way forms a basis for each and every other individual to play their part.

You are all interlinked because you are all different expressions of the same one energy, the same one universal thought.

Each and every being within creation can be called God's thoughts which is composed of all beings within the creation that it is.

So you do not really lose old friends either by death or circumstance. Death is only change. There are many different ways in which individuals can exist, and exist you always will. If you exist now, begin to play in the dance of life in all of its forms, and you will begin to recognize many, many friends that you may not have considered to be your friends. You may remember and recall and gather together once again all of those in your terminology you may have thought were lost but which have only been living in their own worlds.

Now that you have all gleaned the experience of the many lifetimes of limitation and experience that you have created, now you can pour into the collective mind pool all of these experiences so that each and every one of you can drink deeply from this well, the family well, and gather yourselves back together as the family that you are, recognizing all the old and the new friends alike. You are all one family. You are all one world, and you are one family with us, one family with every other civilization within creation. Each and every one of you has the right to drink as deeply from that well of knowledge as you desire. Do so. It is freely given. It is yours simply because you exist. And in this way, by way of the anniversary that was mentioned, entitling this "Old Friends and New Friends" during what you call the second half of your break this evening, we will have a visit from an old friend and a new friend.

At this time, allow us to simply express and extend to each and every one of you our heartfelt appreciation in allowing us to interact with you and your energy, allowing us to experience the joy and ecstasy of the expression of creation that you are individually and collectively. We thank you for being willing to function as the ambassadors of your family. And in return for this gift you have given us of sharing, we ask you simply now: how may I serve you?

Hello, Bashar. It's a pleasure to be here with you and the whole group. This is my second time here, and I feel wow, I'm the first one up. I had two questions to ask you, but before I do, I just thought I'd mention I listened to the tape "Field Trip" which was made a year ago, "Solar Wind." It would sure be great if we could take the whole group up to visit the mothership. I would sure enjoy it, and I'm sure a lot of others would.

We will do such an exercise after your break.

Fantastic. It's a pleasure being a night of reunion as it is. I have my own awareness that I have lived my last life in England and my name was George, and yet there is a bit of doubt, and I've been given the idea of the possibility of something called false information implants. I was wondering if you could give me a little data on that as to whether this is a true past life for me or not.

First of all, allow us to ask you a question: how does it feel to consider the idea of that life?

I like the idea. It was a very bad life. It taught me a lot. I don't want to go into the whole story — I died in the gutters of London as a drunk and a bum and so forth and so on. I do have a bit of recall on it, but to me it's real.

Then understand something: the moment it becomes real to you in feeling, you are creating that life truly right now. Understand the idea once again: there is no one truth against which to measure all other truths for their validity. The truth is composed of all truths, and whatever is real to you, whatever feels correct in that sense to you, works for you and is valid and does exist truly in some dimensional plane, on some dimensional realm. You may wish to call it the past, but that is quite an arbitrary label. It exists because you create the essence of the desire to associate with, to identify with that idea. So it is real. It does not necessarily have to take place in what you would colloquially call the linear time frame of the history you recognize as true, for all histories are simultaneously real and true. Do you follow me?

I do. I have created that particular life a number of times, so it's real on top of reality then. I feel my last life was there.

Simply allow whatever information comes to you within that life to work for you. The information that does not work for you, you do not need to connect into at this time. Let it go. Again, all of this in a sense, even though it is real, is all symbolic. All lives, all physical reality, is your projection. Remember: perception of reality is the creation of reality. The perception is the thing. There is no thing aside from your perception of it. Your perception of it is the reality.

Yes... no... maybe. I mean, what I was looking at is if I fall down and break my arm, that to me is very real. I don't consider that I'm dreaming it.

But you are. That's where I haven't 100% accepted yet. Understand simply that the more you allow yourself to begin to know that it is your dream — a dream perhaps with a very solid definition to it, but your dream nonetheless — the more malleable your physical reality will become. Should, for example, as you have supposed, you fall down and break a bone, if you change the dream in the very next second, you will have no broken bone in the very next second.

I got you, yes.

I wanted to ask you if I have a spirit guide.

All of you do.

How do I contact him, her, it, or whatever?

First of all, remember once again that the majority of the conversations that take place between what you call your guides and yourself do not always have to manifest in what you would recognize as a typical conversation — "Oh yes, I hear you talking now, I know you're there." The idea many times can play itself out. The conversation between you can play itself out in the events that unfold in your life that can be representative of the conversations you are having, because you live in a world of physical action. Therefore, perhaps to allow things to occur in the quickest, the shortest amount of time possible, a conversation that you have an agreement that you make may simply render themselves into the activities that you perform so that you can get the benefit of the conversation and the action simultaneously. If you wish, simple recognition of the conversation, of the communication that is always going on between you and your guides, all you need to do is sit down, center yourself in a very quiet place, allow yourself to collect all that you know yourself to be, be silent, and then simply have your say, then listen. Now, many of you have done this many times. Many of you have gotten an answer, but because of what your society has created you to be, the first response you usually have out of habit is, "That was just my imagination. That was too easy." "Yes, I heard a response, but it couldn't possibly have been my spirit guide. It was too easy, it was too obvious." Your society does not believe in the easy, does not believe in the obvious. Therefore, many of you hear these conversations all the time and pass them off.

I love it. Thank you very much. Enjoy, pleasant dreams.

Hello, Bashar. My name is Lola, and I'd like to thank you for this wonderful evening of reunion. I'm glad to be back here.

We thank you for co-creating with all of us.

I have two questions. Number one: I have had three, as we call, Close Encounters of the Third Kind. Three times. Yes. And I'd like to know the significance of these encounters.

The significance: first of all, once again, the idea of any recognition each and any one of you might have with beings you would call ET are for several general reasons and many specific reasons. Many of the specific reasons are entirely within you and your understanding of what you have created yourself to be and what it is you desire to do in your life. The general reasons are to form a reunion in that sense, to awaken you to your own power, your own godhood in that sense. That is the general, fundamental reason for any such encounter: to wake you up, to allow you to be aware of the energy of creativity that you have within you so that you can put it into use in your physical world and create the changes that will change the world, that will allow more interaction to take place between your world and other worlds. That is the primary, fundamental significance. Any other significance in specific terms is up to you in terms of the specific agreements and contracts you have made with those beings to have them remind you at those specific timings of who you are.

Does that serve you?

Very much. Thank you for that.

My second question is for my daughter. I would like to know how she's going to fare in a relationship that means very much to her.

If your daughter will allow the relationship to exist for the reason it has been attracted, rather than placing, as your society teaches people to do, the expectations of what she thinks the relationship should be for upon the relationship, then if allowed, the relationship can exist. She can learn what she needs to learn. She can learn why she attracted it. All relationships are fundamentally for the purpose of being of service to the other individual in the relationship to allow them to learn what they need to learn about themselves to grow and expand, while they are being of service to you to allow you to learn what you need to learn about yourself so you can grow and expand. All relationships, the moment they are going on, are in your terms the sacred soulmate relationship at that moment that the individual needs to be in. Whether it changes or not does not mean anything regarding the level of its significance. So allow her to trust love unconditionally. And also remind her: do not forget that loving unconditionally does not mean that you do not choose to live the way you prefer to live with integrity, rather than giving your power away to someone else in a relationship because they tell you you should.

I do very much so. Thank you very much.

I wonder if you could possibly look into the future consciousness of our planet and find out what the effect of using nuclear waste to radiate our food has happened to cause to the people.

The future we are connected to will find absolutely no effect, because you will transform yourselves beyond that particular fear. You will transmute it, and therefore in the future we are attached to of your world, there will be no negative effect, for you will have learned how to transcend all such effects.

I have a question on the idea that once you've had the thought, that's the end of the process. It seems like I just finished about eight months of a really frustrating time at work because I picked up a list — I've been designing printed circuit boards for 20 years, and I could design them perfectly without an error. I picked up a list one day and the back side of the eights and threes was kind of chopped off, but I was hooking up threes instead of eights. I observed that I was making a lot of mistakes, and that seemed to have created making a lot of mistakes, because in the future I started making more mistakes. I couldn't believe I'm making these mistakes.

Any time you acknowledge a negative, that is what gives you the power to transform it into what you prefer. Not acknowledging it locks you into a repetitive cycle. I mean acknowledging it — now that I did it, but at the time I didn't notice that I was doing it. I observed that I had created this in the time by making a negative observation of what happened instead of trying to find out how it served me positively. Now it seems to be okay. I'll have to see a little bit in the future. I know it's okay now; I've ended the cycle on that. Also, I observed that on the same concept, I've been trying for several years off and on to use a pendulum, and I always did exactly what I thought it was going to do instead of answering. I observed that what happened is that once I get the thought, instantly the pendulum starts swinging, but by the time I get the question out — either think it or verbalize it — my judgment is coming in. Now the pendulum will be acting on my judgment, but I think the answer is going to be instead of what the answer really is.

It is a very good tool for you to begin to differentiate between your instinct and your analysis. In fact, I observed that even at the instant that it starts to swing, I already know the answer, which I don't seem to do without it anyway.

It is all right for now. If you wish to use a tool, it is still representative of the power you have. More trust will bring you less need for the tool. But do not judge yourself if you are still using one; that only adds to the negativity. Use it in a positive way. If it helps you differentiate between your intuition and your analysis, then by all means rejoice in the fact that you have attracted to yourself the perfect tool for the job, and use it well.

Thank you. Reconnect your circuits in a different way.

Hello, Bashar. I have something to share. I think a week ago — not I think, I know — a week ago I was doing some school work, and for a moment I was channeling through a dolphin, I think it was. It was a dream, and it felt very good. Usually it does. Then it was at night time, and in the morning I channeled again. Since I have channeled that, I have had better experiences going out of my body. Because before, when I went out of my body, I had this awful feeling. When I went out, I would picture lots and lots of bridges with very dark-toned people on them, and I would feel very horrible. But ever since I channeled through, I have had better experiences.

Has that helped me?

Oh yes. You have opened yourself up to a higher vibration, and therefore when you leave your body, you go to a higher level that does not contain the vibrations of the individuals that you perceived on the bridges before. The bridges are symbolic. They are symbolic of the linkages that those individuals are still seeking. You were passing through the level where individuals who have physically died still do not know they are physically dead and are still walking across all the interconnecting links to life, trying to find themselves and where they fit in. You have simply now elevated yourself through and above that level, and so you yourself are lighter, higher in that sense. The consciousness you have channeled through has simply aided and assisted you to remember more of yourself so that your vibration is more open, faster, higher, so that now when you explore the different levels of yourself, you have a tendency to go farther, faster, and not hang around the lower levels.

And when I went out, I would feel like the vibrations were going up straight. I would be in class and standing up, and I would sort of go out and pass out, like going out of my body, and I would see this picture. But now that I've been going out of my body, I have not pictured anything, but I have felt that it isn't that sort of awful feeling. What you have said is that has happened to me. My life has been much better, and some people say that I have been more lovingly.

Yes, because feeling better, you are fuller, more fulfilled. You are a fuller, loving vibration. Also you have transcended the fear reaction that many of you have when you leave your bodies, because to many of you leaving your body means death, and you are afraid of that. You have already transcended that fear. Death holds no fear for you. You know you are eternal, and so you know that you are safe. It is all right to relax and explore as far as you want to. You will always be at home no matter how far you go, because you never really go anywhere. It is all within you. You are simply more expanded, and now you contain more understanding of the universe within you.

When I was channeling through, that loving feeling came. Now that I have had that, it's always been this way. When I go to my body, it can't cut through anymore. It's all lifted. Thank you very much.

Now each and every one of you has this child within you. Let it out.

Hello, Bashar. First of all, I wanted to share with you that we co-created something very exciting for me in my life. About the crystals — after I spoke to you for the first time, several people came up to me and gave me names and numbers and information that has led me to begin what I know will be a very exciting crystal business. Thank you. Also, I had a dream that night that I wanted to share with you and ask for your comment. I dreamt that I was walking in a forest with a large picture frame. I put the picture frame down and I walked through it, and I walked on into the distance. I watched myself go through this gate. How exciting! Yes, it was. Then I was in a garage or some sort of little place, and I saw all sorts of people which I later felt were my other selves — some of the old friends — walking through, going into a main place. I was very embarrassed because I was naked, so I jumped into a hole so that nothing but the top of my head was showing. They all saw me, but they pretended not to see me because they knew I was embarrassed, so they very nicely walked past me into some place. Later on, I was back on the first side of the gate, and I was very worried because I felt like I had left this gate or picture frame up and I didn't know if someone had walked through it and didn't know how to get back again. All of a sudden a little child was there, and I said, "Did anybody go through? Are they lost? Can I take the gate away?" She said, "No, it's okay." That was the end of the dream.

How beautiful. You know the child was you too. Yes. And you were the one that had gotten lost, but now you have found yourself. Thank you. I have done nothing — well, I didn't know that before. So it has been a most marvelous journey across the ages, has it not? It has indeed. From your beginning to now, from your child to your adult, you are now awake and capable of using the gate consciously. Congratulations. You have nothing to hide. No more cloaking, no more symbols.

That is still hard for me, but I'm working on it. Well, I'm still doing it, but all right. Then enjoy it, and the more you enjoy it, then you will find yourself released and free. If you are going to continue to play that game, at least act like you are really playing the game. Then you will be free. I see, because you know you will be in control of playing the game, and it is your choice to play it.

My second question was about a comment that I've been told you spoke of about a year or so ago about the fact that in fourth density we will experience time in a different way, in the sense that we will be on this Earth as we know time now for a much longer period. Could you comment on that?

The idea is that as you begin to live more in the now, in the present, and not so much living in the past, not so much living or worrying about the future, the more you live in the now, the less you experience the idea of time itself. You will simply, in your terminology, lose track of when it is. The days, even though they may be observable by the coming and going of daylight, will not necessarily have as much meaning to you in the sense of absolutely having to know what time it is, what day it is. You will simply move as you feel you need to move, and you will automatically be exactly where you need to be when you need to be there, whether you know what time you got there or not. Days will blend into days, years into years. Hundreds of years will pass, and to you it may still seem like a day, so much in the present are you living in the now — the eternal now. That is why many of you will find that your lifespans are increasing. This in a sense is an abstract misnomer: it is not literally that you are having more time; it is that you are creating less time. So you simply come into your primal now, continuous existence, and simply span the ages because they become reduced by comparison to you because you are no longer counting. Because you will accelerate at that rate. It is our perception that your civilization does not need to remain physically embodied for any more than approximately 2 to 3,000 years more. Then you will go on to other realms, other dimensions.

Does that assist you? Yes, it does. Thank you very much. One last thing: I have been noticing two things. One is that I seem to require very little food these days, and the second is that when I'm meditating, I am just like vibrating.

As you connect into the primal vibratory frequency of creation, you become sustained by that energy, and you require less symbolic sustenance. And this other higher vibration you feel — it's almost like you are being introduced to more of you. You are being accelerated by you. You are becoming the higher yourself in physical terms. You are simply acclimating to a new level, a new frequency. You are more expanded. If you are in that sense more — there is in your terms more energy, higher frequency. If you have a certain degree of energy, it vibrates in a certain way. If you add energy to it, the vibration becomes higher. So as you expand yourself into your higher self, simply becoming aware of more of your energy, higher frequency vibrational energy, you are aligning with the primary frequency of creation, aligning, harmonizing, synchronizing with that energy. Because the society you have created yourself to be has existed on a very low energy level, so comparatively, as you make the comparison in your mind, you are now going to a higher vibratory level. You are speeding up your frequency.

Hello, Bashar. It's me, the unknown concert pianist from all right. I haven't done any more piano playing, but this morning I literally woke up singing. It was before 5:00, and it was dark, and I was trying to find pencil and paper in the dark and sing what it was that I was hearing, taking shorthand in the dark. It was being presented to me on a stage such as this. One child came out and began to sing, then another child came out from another side, and from the audience, until the stage was filled with these children in international costumes singing of peace. It was beautiful.

Yes. You are all of you, and we thank you for already beginning to release the children that you are, to blend and harmonize and to know what every child knows: everyone is your friend. That's beautiful. Thank you for creating. The other thing I was going to mention was that a few of us were speaking last week about our feelings that we have observed since March 15th. Some of us have had similar experiences where we're having emotional feelings or feelings of insecurity or confusion. Personally, I seem to have dredged up everything that I have avoided for the past 10 years.

Now is the time to do it, because you're trying to create that new person that's going to go through the gateway. And if it is all coming up, it means you're strong enough to handle it, or it wouldn't come up. Obviously, yes. Thank you. I wanted to mention that to the others that were here because I have made the observation that everything has accelerated to such a pace that it's like my life is a microcosm of what it had been for 10 years that I had not been for 10 years. It's sort of like a tape recorder: when you rewind a tape recorder, it rewinds and rewinds, and the closer you get toward the end of it, it seems to speed up faster and faster and faster, and then you hear that click, and then you're ready to go forward again. Right. Yay. Nice analogy.

Well, maybe you can settle something. I'm very curious about a comment that you offered the last time I asked a question. You mentioned that I had been here for 3 months before I was actually here physically. Can you elucidate on that for me?

Simply put: your energy, your mentality, your spirit, your soul if you will, visited these interactions 3 months prior to your physical body. In other words, you were exploring, found something you wish to participate in physically, and then lured yourself into these interactions for three months.

Did that have anything to do with a visit that I made in November to somebody named April?

It is connected tangentially only in the sense that the energy that you share with that individual is a part of the exploration, a part of what you are sharing, a part of what you are learning, a part of what is being mirrored to you, a part of your exploration in that sense, a part of what you are gathering together to become the total being you know you are. This interaction, this idea, is simply one of the elements — not that it is any better or more important than any other, but simply one of the elements that you prefer to participate in right now, simply because it allows you the opportunity to find mirrored back to you the elements you need to learn to expand yourself accordingly. But all of you do this. You all go exploring when you are asleep in that sense, and you all penetrate the barriers of time and space, and you all lead yourselves to the places, the junctions, the destinies that you desire.

Does that energy have anything to do with what happened to me 5 years ago?

It is all connected. There really is no need to differentiate one particular moment from another. You are a path. Remember that you are a path. You're not on a path; you are a path. Therefore, everything in your life will be a part of the path you are. It is all connected. So in the foundational sense, realize that when you say, "Well, does that have anything to do with it?" it must in some way. However you wish to apply it, that is how it will work for you, how it will make sense to you, how it will fit for you. But fit it does. You will determine how it fits by your approach, your attitude, your willingness, your trust, your love. It all fits. It is all one idea, whether we are a part of it or not.

The channeling that I've been receiving musically — music is not my forte. I'm more a writer than I am a musician.

You are at this moment again. Remember that when you channel the idea through you, you are at that moment another you — the you that is conducive to that vibratory energy, the music. When you are a writer, you are a different you than you are when you are a musician. You are not the same you, except in the overall fundamental sense that you are the same soul, but you are not the same personality. Personality is the soul's artificial construct and can change and vary moment to moment, whatever it needs to be to represent whatever idea the soul is being at any given moment. Whatever the persona is at that moment, the personality is only your representative, your diplomat into physical materiality. It is a facade, a cloak. It becomes what it needs to become to facilitate the idea you are as a spirit, as a soul.

I was interpreting something that happened this week as meaning that I should follow that excitement. I was collaborating with somebody on this book, and they suggested it should be a play rather than a book. When we met, although I'm not a playwright, I had already been given the staging, the direction, the sets, and everything, and I already had pictures of them to present. Was I channeling that because it should be a play rather than a book?

Perhaps it excited you. If the offer, the suggestion, excited you about it being a play more than being a book, then if it truly excited you, the vibration of excitement allowed you to transform into the person that would channel it as a play. If you were to become excited about it being a book again, you would transform into the person that would be able to channel it as a book. Why can't it be both? That's what they said. But it is up to you. Whatever you prefer, whatever excites you the most, you will become the persona through which that idea can then channel into physical materiality. It is not that it should have been or should not have been. Whatever you become determines what it is at that moment. When you change in the next moment, that determines what it is at that moment, regardless of what it has been or what it will be. They are discreet and unique unto themselves and valid experiences unto themselves. The idea that it is a book has no connection to the idea that it is a play. They are two distinct universes, and they are created by two different people — you and you. You, the playwright; you, the book writer. Two different people, two different universes. They have no business being compared to each other for their relative validity. What is better? They are both equal.

Wow, yeah. I'm trying to... you are doing just fine. Thank you.

This next comment/question is for someone else. This person is... thank you for that. I appreciate it, believe me.

We only reflected what you already knew.

Thank you for that too. The next question has to do with a friend of mine who is in the process of settling her father's estate, and it has been in progress now for some time. They would like to conclude it because there are things that we need to move on to.

Not at this time. There are other factions and other processes that are going on into which at this time we may not interfere. It is not our place. It is not the timing.

I respect that, and I thank you for your help. Good night.

Good evening, Bashar. My love to you. I was going to sidetrack myself with the talk about our visit to the beach yesterday, but I don't think I will. I'd like to thank you for the reminder that it is okay to drink from the well of knowledge. Recently I've had a tremendous buildup of energy around my body, so much so that I'm blowing out the wires in the bathroom.

This is a common symptom of the fourth density transformation. Since you are now accumulating the etheric-magnetic and electromagnetic field of your mentality and exploring and expanding it, you can allow yourself to balance out by envisioning yourself as a blue sphere of electromagnetic energy and seeing that sphere as homogeneous, with no one portion of it standing out over any other, not seeing electrical arcs of activity going through it, but seeing it as one pulse, one breathing, blue, transparent, crystalline energy, liquid light sphere. Blend, balance, breathe it in, breathe it out. Feel the coolness, feel the comfort, feel yourself balancing, feel all the polarities blending so there are no short circuits, no cross currents. Allow yourself to ease into your physical reality. Do not create an abrupt cross-connection. Allow yourself to flow smoothly, softly. Envisioning this can assist you.

I had set up a process — it seemed like things were really speeding up, and I tried to stop it from speeding up.

Do you not think you can handle it? Something like that. I was in a deep meditation last summer, and I have always had a secret desire to be able to handle my body, to bend all the laws of the universe.

Well, you do all the time.

I understand that, but on another level. In the meditation, I started to go into a vortex where I realized that my body was disintegrating.

We do that quite often. It's fun.

I thought it would be fun, and I really secretly had wanted that to happen, but when it came to the point...

We understand. We understand you are testing your own waters. Do not be embarrassed that you pulled your foot back at the last moment. It is again simply typical of your society at this time. But the more you do it, the more it will become familiar to you, and soon enough you will dive in head first, knowing that there is nothing to fear. The last thought I had before I pulled back was, "If I ended up in Joan Bishop's living room, it would be all right, but what if I ended up someplace else, in the wrong place?"

I know, no wrong place. I felt as though I didn't have the underlying data or something to go with that.

That is all right. Therefore, take heart in the fact that you have — if you believe you need it — a perfect self-regulating governor. You will stop yourself before you go farther than you think you can handle, always. So do not fear it, knowing that you always will check yourself before you go too far. That can allow you to relax, and that will allow you to go farther, paradoxically.

I hear. Thank you very much.

Good evening, Bashar. A pleasure to be here. I didn't realize this was an anniversary, so I'm glad I didn't miss tonight. I don't know where to start. Everything is so fabulously synchronous, and synchronicity above and beyond everything is brief. Thank you. I've been experiencing more of that. I just want to say how much I love these interactions and thank you again for your encouragement on my dolphin dreams newsletter. I got the first copy off the presses today. I'm very excited about that. I guess that's all. Thank you for your activity. Good night.

Yes. I appreciate this lady's sharing of blowing her electrical fuses and such. I blew the engine in my automobile, and I didn't think I was going to be able to handle it, but I guess I will. Several weeks ago, I was in the shower, and lots of times whenever I'm taking a bath or in the shower, I'll open up the channel and be able to communicate with dolphins. I was communicating with an orca, and he gave me a phrase. After I got the phrase, I wrote it down, and then I did some writing. I just wanted to share the phrase with you and see if you had any sharing on it. It was very foreign to me; I've never heard of it before. The words are "Omaha."

In a sense, it is simply that which slices like a knife, that which cuts through all illusion, which is the symbol of the orca.

I have something that I'd like to ask for a friend, Annie, and her son Morgan. Annie's son Morgan has had regular high fever since he was a baby, and he hallucinates now and has a lot of fear during these times of high fever. Also, other than having high fevers, his body will change and he has sub-temperatures below normal body heat, and he sweats out excessive amounts of body fluid. He doesn't remember these episodes or what has happened. They would like if you could give assistance on that.

Some of this idea is connected into other lives of his. Some of this idea is connected into agreements with the mother. The child to some degree is acting as a regulatory thermometer for the parent, siphoning off some of the energy to allow the parent to function along lines that they need to function, because the child can handle it. Now the child does not have to continue to manifest the idea in this way. Also, the child can begin to express the connection to the Earth now and allow the Earth energy to sustain the child. A more natural approach — allowing the energy to be drawn from the earth, allowing the energy to soak into the earth, allowing that marriage to occur — may accelerate the child even further. There may be some unsteadiness, but primarily there's a very strong connection. Allow it to occur at a gentle rate, for there may be some things yet which are fearful to the child which need to be worked through. But there's a very strong connection, and it is timing now in a sense for this individual to come to terms with the feminine side of themselves and the agreements they have made for the blending of their polarities. It can perhaps to some degree be best accomplished by going through the Earth's energy, the Earth's femininity in that sense. The child has many guides; it is surrounded by much energy. Now the child may find through the idea of hallucination that they are being led into many worlds, many dimensional realms, and shown many things that they can use through power later on in life. The idea is to relax into the understanding that this is a type of class and acceleration of many of the experiences the child has lived in and lived through in many other lives, in many other dimensions, and also to some degree symbolic of many of the interactions yet to come in this life. But it is incorporating, it is integrating, and this acceleration that is experienced as fever will pass. The difference in temperature will balance and blend. If sustenance is derived from the natural things of the Earth, this can aid and assist this being greatly. Also, water — clear, cool water — in this child's system can act as a regulator and in your terms a radiator.

We'll certainly give that to him, and thank you for that.

The other thing that I wanted to ask for myself was... one moment. The child also has many members in his family. Some of the ideas of the members in this child's family, even though the mother is a part of this, may sometimes make the mother uncomfortable. Some of that is also what is being experienced, but that is of assistance to the mother.

Continue. I had a private session with you at one time, and during that time we discussed in depth an energy that I had connected up to several years ago. It was and is an ET energy, and we discussed what it was. You were describing the essence of that energy to me, and you said something regarding it being like a father energy. I asked you if you could give me the name, and you said not at this time. I've been having during my sleep contact with — I'm not sure just two or how many, but a lot. Symbolically, for now, symbolically in essence this will work if you wish. This is all at this time we can share. Do not necessarily take me literally, but as really as is needed. The name of Jonah can work. Also Joshua.

Just to verify, is that Pleiadian? There is some intermixture. Over a period of four nights, the last night that I was having this contact, I came back into my body just coming back into waking consciousness, and a name was echoed out to me. I'm not sure why, and I'm not really sure just what to do with it or if there's anything to do, but it's just made me so curious. The name that was echoed was Quetzalcoatl.

All right. To some degree, you are flashing as it were upon the manifestation of a type of energy that now has made itself available as a symbol to let you know that there has been a thread woven through your life and many of your lives — identical energy experienced in different ways in many of those lives, primarily in what you would call your Yucatan area. The idea can now simply represent to you symbolically the recognition of your own dragon, your own ancient wisdom, your own primal Earth connection for now. But it is something that will allow you to climb and fly to the greatest heights. It is simply symbolic of the path you are winding and weaving its way around in all the ways that it has to to get you where you need to go as quickly as you possibly can. For now, that is what we can share. There are beings that are with you that can provide more information at this time. There are also more dream communications that will give you more of the energy at this time. Our interaction, our participation in this particular communication, is very peripheral. There are connections coming up, however, and some of them are ETly connected. For now, that is all we can share.

Bashar, you told me previously that I had completed a cycle in which I had committed suicide in a previous life. Could you tell me a little bit about that?

The cycle in a sense now allows you to know in this life that regardless of all that you might experience or have experienced in your life that represents blocks, frustration — these now, you are not running from these. Now you are incorporating them into your very soul, into your very being, into your very person. There may be things from time to time that agitate and perhaps create a bit of indecisiveness, a bit of fear, a bit of hesitation. But whereas before you ran out of life in a sense with the suicide, now you are knowing you are strong enough to incorporate, blend, balance, and allow all of these ideas that you have lived before to be lived through. But recognize, if I may simply set up a scenario: your society, you say the validation of your society. Use your imagination in a way that allows you to use the things you know your society would say in supporting the thing that you do. Just as an example: here you are saying, "Well, I am sitting, I am thinking," and you are imagining someone in your society saying, "Well look, you're not doing anything. She's sitting, she's thinking." And then now hear the very same individuals walking by a building saying, "You know what goes on in there? There are people in there who think for a living and get paid very well to do that. Isn't that wonderful?" There is that polarity in your society. It is up to you to determine whether or not the things that are going on that truly excite you the most are validly something you can allow to change and transform into a thing you can do that in your terminology will be valid, will fit into your society, simply because you are a part of your society, and anything that you are excited about doing must by definition somewhere fit into the structure of your society, or you wouldn't exist in that society. However, pay honest and close attention to the idea of whether your thinking is an excuse to not do something you don't think you are capable of doing, or whether you truly are simply exploring something at any given moment that you need to explore. Again, simple, honest, and open communication with yourself will always result in an awareness of what you are doing, as long as you know that you have no need to fear honest communication and exploration within yourself, because there is nothing about yourself you could ever discover that cannot be applied to yourself in a positive way. Nothing — not even one itty-bitty, little tiny, minuscule, microscopic, infinitesimal, invisible little thing. Nothing. There is nothing that cannot be applied in a positive as well as a negative way.

