---
heading: Part 1
title: "New Metaphysics"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1987-08-19
icon: Bashar
weight: 329
showdate: true
---



We begin with the idea that though you perceive with the idea that though you perceive that there is a singular Consciousness or entity thus transmitting this information and there is, we will for this particular work, deem to suggest that that which you have known Myself by, that which you refer to as Bashar, will in this case not be my name, for we have no such names as such. You may refer to the idea that there is a singular entity speaking a Consciousness, but allow me to say I will be representing that which in your terminology we have called The Association, and thus in this way we would ask of you that any and all information that proceeds here within will be ascribed simply to the labeling the association in this way. 

It will be viewed that these ideas which you have given us the gift of allowing us to share with you will then be of due course understood to be issuing from Gatherings of consciousness like unto yourselves, the representations of many different worlds, many different dimensions of perspective and reality, alternate selves, endless facets within the overall selves, endless facets within the overall understanding of the group Consciousness that you know to be all that is, yourselves included within this Association, yet your Consciousness at the Point knows it not. Recognize therefore that as we proceed with this discourse, we will be communicating not only to your conscious selves that which you deem to be your personalities, your minds, your mentality, but also to all levels of your Consciousness that which you have here to for deemed to be subconscious, unconscious, hyperconscious, mass conscious. 

This entire work is specifically aimed, if you will, towards the conscious recognition that now upon your planet is the timing for the integration and thus the removal of the separations between the levels of all of your Consciousness, and you will come to discover in this way, if you share this journey with us, that the removal or blending or integration of all these ideas between the levels of your Consciousness that you have deemed to be separations, you will thus understand that with this removal there will be a removal of the separations in all the Endeavors of your lives upon your physical plane. You will come to understand the inter-relationships in this way of all fields of effects, all physicalized Endeavors, both what you term to be micro and macroscopic in nature. Many times upon your civilization you have deemed to discover that micro, in your terms, scopic effects are of such nature as to differ greatly from what you perceive to be the macroscopic effects. 

But realize there are parallels in these ideas that can be felt as real, as you say real physical effects upon your planet that have in every way shape or form to do with those microscopic effects you are discovering. Recognize you have already come to terms with your own Randomness within the overall Consciousness, even though there may be events that will be undertaken by the overall entity that represents the consciousness of your entire civilization. Within submerged within that entity are each and every of the individuals that go to making it up, in the same manner that within the overall identity of a piece of matter there are your understandings of the individual entities you call atomic structures. In this way recognize that while these atomic structures in themselves, what you term to be the protons, electrons and so forth, have a certain Randomness that you find unpredictable, thus you can know with some degree of certainty the overall predictability of the entire material. In like manner you will find that while you're individuals within your Society have the freedom of choice and the self-empowerment to act in seemingly random fashion within the overall civilization, the overall effect of all these courses of action when Blended together within the ecstatic explosion of synchronicity and coincidence that you can allow to exist within your Society will give rise to an overall effect, a Gestalt if you will, an entire concept of your entire civilization that can be viewed by many different consciousnesses not of your civilization. And this overall momentum can be read to a degree to indicate that you are now choosing to push all of your energy toward the idea of a transformation of yourselves, a new understanding of yourselves with regard to how you view your ideas of your reality. In this way you are now creating vibrations within your society that are matching the vibrations of Integrations of other societies, and thus you are creating now within your outer aware Consciousness the opportunity and ability to recognize that there are other consciousnesses aside from your own civilizations, and that way have in this way been communicating with you for quite some time of your time as you create time upon your Society. Recognize we will be exploring in this way all of the ideas of the foundation of physical reality and how each applies to all the specific disciplines upon your planet in general terms. Recognize in this way that we will be formulating and projecting into your Society at this time a concept which in your vernacular may be translated into the idea we will call template metaphysics. In this way you may find that this will form the basis and the foundation for the purposes that physical reality has been created to begin with. 

You will find it to be the overriding and underlying template upon which the idea of physical energy is created, thus forming the unification ideas in a nonphysical template form that your scientists are now beginning to realize may exist and give the underlying template or skeletal framework to your physical reality, that which you recognize to be your Material World. Recognize in this way as we explore all of these different ideas, we will always always be affording you the opportunity to know that this in no way shape or form constitute information that you must believe, need to believe in any way shape or form. The choice is always yours. You are an unlimited Creator, each and every one of you, and together you are in this way the Creator, the all that is. You have always have had and always will have total self-empowerment, total freedom of choice to recognize all of the agreements that you made in creating this physical reality, co-creating it with every other being within it, and thus we will simply come to discover that your civilization and the individuals within it and our civilizations and all the other civilizations and individuals within them are all co-creating a dance, a play, a joyous experience and expression of all of the different ways that all that is has of looking at itself. Thus at the end of this discourse, you will then apply the appellation the association and that will comprise the idea we have called the introduction.


We will now explore many of the different ideas to be contained within the work that we will share with you. The overall momentum procedures and steps will be seen to cover, not necessarily as you say in this order, philosophy, religion, metaphysics, science, creativity, extraterrestrial civilization and Consciousness, past lives, future lives, alternate lives, alternate expressions of the dimensional self, expressions of the multi-dimensional self, discourses on time and space. We will cover the idea expressly in its own chapter of the physics and metaphysics of template metaphysics. We will discuss the connections to your here to before now understood quantum theories. We will speak to some degree of space travel. We will describe in a completely separate area the functions of the personality and thus we will broach into the ideas covering that which you know to be psychology in all of its aspects. There will be opportunity within this discourse for the inclusion of questions of dialogues of answers within the discourse on the psychology and personality. We will also be covering all of the ideas you call channeling and mediumship and cover a wide range of ideas of Consciousness itself. Preceding all of this between the introduction will be the creation of what you made, all charts two of which we have discussed with you which will allow there to be a reference point for the individuals. One will be the five vibrational levels: existence, knowing, belief, emotion and mentality. This will be listed as such in that order from highest to lowest. The other will be the chart we have previously given you with regard to positive and negative manifestation: winning, playing to win, playing to not win, playing to not lose, playing to lose and losing, the positive being above the line, negative expression being below, action above the line, reaction below, allowance, preference, integration above the line, judgments and separations below the line, the line being between playing not to win and playing not to lose. These two charts shall appear in this way in the work so as to give reference. There will be other diagrams specifically in the area we call template metaphysics, those will come later when we have established a format.

Now allow me to begin with the idea you call philosophy. In this way you will understand that that what you call philosophy is simply the idea in and of itself of different points of view, different paths, different ideas about the self about reality. Thus we will propose to describe the Matrix which creates this idea that you call point of view. As I have said, there is existence to begin with in your terms of beginning and ending, though there really isn't any beginning nor end. Understand that existence is in and of itself its own complete definition of what it is that will always be its definition, no matter at what point in time space you choose to look at it from. Existence exists period. Now to many individuals this may seem to be an oversimplification, but realize that is where we are beginning with a simplification. We shall go through the differentiation of all the different ideas that stem from existence, all the different disciplines that are created out of it, and thus we will arrive at the end of this work back into the Simplicity of the existence itself. That is, we will proceed from existence and end up at existence, and everything in between shall be seen to be the interaction taking place within existence, and the paths of all of that interaction begin at zero and end at zero, thus completing the entire circle and cycle of existence itself, and yet having no ending, as existence has always existed and always will.

Now allow me to say that in terms of differentiation or specialization out of existence, then comes knowing, self-awareness, the self-awareness of all that is of itself. This is the first and primary differentiation out of existence. Now recognize that this does not require per se a purpose. You may in your vernacular of before and after recognize that existence existed before the idea of purpose was created within it. Thus that which has existed before the idea of purpose does not need a purpose to continue to exist. Recognize simply that existence diversified as one idea of existence simply because it could. That which existence can do it will do. You have expressed it in this philosophy in your own civilization in other words, that which creation does not forbid, it demands. Therefore recognize that any idea which can be viewed as consistent with the idea of existence will exist on some level of reality somewhere. And one, I'll say, parameter or yardstick, if you wish, by which you can know what does or does not exist is to simply recognize that you cannot imagine non-existence, and everything that you do imagine is a vibration, is an energy form, has timing, space and time, energy, position and place, has substance, has focus ability, and in this way you can know that everything that you do imagine is on some level of reality existent. You cannot imagine nonexistence. Now in many ways you have also in your Society ascribed to another statement that which makes no difference is no difference. This is the entire substructure of that philosophy which you call relativity in your civilization. Thus it is no different to say that if you could experience non-existence you would not know you were experiencing it, thus it has no validity in the idea of that which you can recognize as an experience. Thus it will be the same as saying philosophically therefore that if you can experience it, if you can imagine it, if you can think it at all, it is a part of existence itself. It exists. Thought exists. Ideas exist. Existence exists. Now all the differentiations of what you believe in your civilization to be validly real reality, so to speak, are all still part and parcel philosophical viewpoints derived out of Primal existence, which exists before knowing, which exists before belief, which exists before emotion, which exists before mentality, and thus this is a description in that way of the movement of energy, the diversification and specialization of energy from The Unbroken one wholeness of creation within existence down to that which you term to be physical reality, which creates the idea you call thought or mentality. Recognize there is no such idea specifically as mentality in nonphysical form. You have Consciousness, you have ideas and really, which is something we will touch upon later in this discourse, you come to realize in non-physicality you are ideas themselves. Now even in physical reality you are ideas simply. The idea of having a mentality, the idea of defining a physical reality, of creating a physical reality in and of itself carries with it the definition of separation from being the idea, from being existence itself. You come to the creation of the Viewpoint that you are something that exists within existence, within time and space. Thus you simply are creating only for the purpose because it can create such a view point, the idea of physical reality as yet one more opportunity, one more way to view the self that all that is has of viewing itself. Now every idea in your Society, every discipline, every Endeavor, every relationship, all that which you call Work and Play, thought and feeling and belief, all are philosophies, philosophy simply being points of view. Even your science is only a point of view, one way to look at the entire idea of what you believe your reality to be, and this is an important distinction. Now recognize that in many ways even your own scientists know this distinction, that they are never described reality itself. They are defining what your mentality believes reality to be. Existence itself in an overall sense is above and beyond description. The definition of description always being a specialization or focal Viewpoint, focusing of Consciousness in such a way as to always be to a great degree less than the entire idea of the wholeness of existence. Thus all definitions in this way, as has been ascribed to many of your philosophies that what you call religion have already come to realize that any definition you can have, no matter what discipline it is disguised as, will always be a philosophy, a Viewpoint, a differentiation, a specialization of the entirety of the whole and never a description of the whole itself. Now the whole itself can be experienced, but in this way many times you will find not described per se, though you will find many of your scientists feel that it can. Now to some degree what can be created is an entire symbolic representation of existence and it can be understood mentally, but this even though you may create an entire complete symbolic representation of existence will never be the experience of existence itself. Therefore understand that everything that you do within physical reality and everything within physical reality itself will only be a symbol, a symbol of the experience. In the same manner that what you call a dream is a outer aware conscious collection of symbols, those symbols being chosen by your outer aware physicalized ego Consciousness that best represent the experience you actually had in the dream state. What you remember as a dream is not literally in that way exactly what happened per se, though dreams can reflect actual occurrence in symbolic manner, but you will find that the dream idea itself, that which your memory creates as the dream, is only a series of symbolic interpretations that your conscious mind uses in order to make sense to your conscious mind, to give it a translation for the experience you had in that state of beingness which is again a knowing state of experience and does not in this way need belief, emotion or mentality in order to be experienced, although belief, emotion and mentality will be the three areas that the symbols are chosen from to represent that which you thus create as the dream memory. But the dream reality itself takes place in the next level below existence and that is the level of knowingness. This is above physical reality. It is non-physical. You can incorporate this idea into your physical reality, and we will be discussing this type of knowing manifestation again later in the discourse of the work. That knowing State wherein you choose all of the ideas you will be living out in physical reality prior to such existence.

We will from our Viewpoint in our civilizations recognize that Philosophy for us is or can be manifested as physical reality, whereas many times in your civilization that which you have deemed philosophy you think to be separate from physical reality. You deem that philosophy can be a way to look at any physicalized discipline such as science, such as economics, such as religion. And yes, though religion does encompass a great deal of the idea of philosophy, it is not in its Primal sense simply pure philosophy. It is quite different and it is a physicalized manifestation of an entirely different idea, which again we will discuss later. But simply understand that from our point of view, that which you deem to be philosophy which is unconnected to any of the disciplines in terms of having a quote unquote real effect upon any of those disciplines, our Viewpoint leads us to regard philosophy as something that is intrinsically connected, very much unfolded and really not separable from any of those ideas. In this way you can know that your disciplines of Science and so forth will now, as they have begun to do, incorporate much of the idea of philosophy within the actual structure of the physics that they describe. In this way you will come to realize that we will in ending our discourse with metaphysics, physics and then template metaphysics, this being the last of the chapters, it will come to be viewed how philosophy will wind its way through all the disciplines upon your planet in your civilization, and thus it will be seen that the idea you call physics in a sense can turn out to be the ultimate philosophy and can contain all of the other ideas and disciplines within themselves without contradiction. Understand that your physics is a philosophical exploration of existence, and thus in this way you will find how philosophy that you deem to be insubstantial will actually be Inseparable from that idea once you begin to recognize that the unification of all of the fields within physics that you deem to be physically real also contain within them the templates of their reality, and those templates arise within the non-physical universe that which forms the foundation of existence itself and gives rise to the knowing state which you call the philosophical Viewpoint. Philosophy then is simply the creation out of knowingness of all of the different viewpoints that give rise to the different disciplines within your physical reality. They are the driving energies and forces of Consciousness with which you have created the tools of your Artistry within each and every Endeavor that you seek to undertake in that which you call physical reality.

As the timing of this endeavor unfolds, each and every one of you involved within this endeavor within this project will also, by allowing yourselves the exposure to your own integrating of energy by its completion, come to full understanding of that which we refer to as the template, and in this way allow yourselves conscious recognition of your ability to utilize its form and function and its effects within your physical reality. Thus we extend once again to you our appreciation for your willingness upon the creation of this endeavor, this work, and to each and every one of you we then the unconditional love that arises from existence supports it and supports each and every one of you in your creations and in your co-creations with yourselves, with us and with every other Consciousness within all that is.

Now allow us to continue with your idea that will lay the final section of what you term to be the forward and will set the foundation for all of the subjects and disciplines which we will discuss later in this work, aside from what we have already discussed in terms of that which you call philosophy, recognizing that it is but a point of view and as we said forms the foundation for every discipline that you know upon your planet. Recognize that the mechanism which allows this point of view to manifest upon your Earth within your physical reality in your physical plane is that idea which you call the personality. Now recognize that the personality is not who nor what you are. 


### Personality

Personality is an artificial construct, a facade, not in a negative term, but as a mask.
- It is created so that you can have and Express in your physical reality the idea that you call mentality, thought, analysis, rationalization, reason. With this tool of personality you can then know that you have created a specific mechanism or channel for the consciousness's point of view or philosophy, and therefore that philosophy will be expressed in your own unique way, colored if you will by the unique personality or mentality that has been created to express it.

Personality is created in a sense as a prism. 

Prism will focus white light through itself and break it down into what you know to be your visible spectrum. In the same way, personality will focus the entire whole unbroken Consciousness through itself and break it down into the aspects of the personality which you use to sense and create your reality, your physical reality, the reflection of that which you call your day-to-day experience. 

The three corners of the personality prism will be belief, emotionality and mentality or thought. Now understand that first in the fivefold system which we will describe as representing the levels of vibration from existence to physical reality in an overall sensing way, the 5 senses will be in this sense existence itself, then knowingness which is the first diversification from existence when the homogeneous existence knows itself it has made a separation, the first separation, the first differentiation is knowing. Knowingness is the product of non-physicality of the whole Consciousness in a sense below if you wish. Knowingness then comes belief, then emotionality and then mentality or thought. 

Thus only the last three are utilized in the creation of the illusion of physical reality. Now understand that therefore knowing comes before belief, belief comes before emotion, emotion comes before thought, and in this way you can allow yourself to realize that your knowing self, your higher self, your non-physical self will always be completely aware of all the different ideas that you are exploring within the physical personality, above and beyond any limitations you may impose upon yourself for whatever purposes in the physical personality. Your knowing higher self will always be in your terms Above This limitation. 

Therefore understand that all your philosophies which have been created upon your planet simply through the personality will always be to some degree limited, and in this way you will find that this work will endeavor to illustrate how the integration of your knowing self with the personality self, the removal of separation between knowingness, beliefs, emotions and thoughts, will now be giving rise to a completely new perspective of each and every one of these disciplines upon your planet and to the idea of yourself as a being. Recognize that your personality is a changeable thing since it is an artificial construct. It changes all the time.

Many times you do not realize it because the change is so smooth over a period of time as you say. Sometimes personality will change radically either in the terms you call Revelation or many times through self introspection, meditation, even including the form you call depression, which is not in and of itself negative but only when you judge it to be so. Depression is simply that form of meditation where you know the answers cannot be found to what you are seeking outside yourself, so you go within. When you do this you know what you are doing. It only becomes negative depression when you judge that it is something that is somehow antisocial, when you accept the judgments of others around you that you are not facing your problems, you are withdrawing. When you do so you know what you are doing, you are going within, you are restructuring the personality, the beliefs, the emotions, the thoughts, and when you emerge you are literally a new person, a new personality, a new perspective. Thus your personality is malleable and can be created in any way shape or form and changed in anyway shape or form to suit whatever purposes in the moment your knowing self deems are the purposes you have chosen to be physical for. Thus now you will see that we have established the idea of point of view through philosophy and the mechanism through which point of view is expressed in your physical reality, that being the personality. In this way you shall be able to apply these formulas of blending to perceive how your disciplines upon your planet have been created, which will be the first half of each chapter, and the second half being devoted to how the blending of your entire personality and knowingness Consciousness level will allow you to see how each and every one of the disciplines are connected, whereas heretofore you have thought they are not. We shall say therefore that this will be the ending of that section you call the forward, and we will express our appreciation in the sharing that you are willing to have allowed us to share with you, and in this way we will then for this section bid you good evening.


### **Section 1: Religion**

Now allow us to begin with the idea that you call upon your planet religion. We will begin with this idea for in it, it is, I will say, an offshoot of the initial condition in which Humanity upon your planet recognized itself as it became physical. 

The diversifications that occurred within the recognition of self as the Creator will have been created within the idea of separation from the Creator-Hood, therefore giving rise to all of the ideas you recognize as religion per se. Now approximately 25,000 of your years ago in what you term to be Atlantis, or in their dialect Atalanti, you will have found that the idea of separation of the self from the Creator-Hood began in Earnest, though it had appeared upon your planet before that. You will find now that was the choice within the mass consciousness of that area to determine for themselves that they were in this way not needing the integration of the self to the all that is, but that they could exercise their power directly in such a manner as to separate themselves from the totality of all that is so that they could recognize themselves in a more, I'll say, personalized way as being the Creator. This stemmed from the projection of spirit into material form. As it continued, as Spirit continued to project into material form, it found that the idea of material form in and of itself was the definition of separation, limitation to a certain degree. Thus the more Spirit experienced the idea of material form or physical reality, slowly in a sense but as you say surely, they became used to the energy patterns. They began to sense ideas, feelings, emotionality, thoughts, beliefs that they had heretofore not encountered within non-physicality. They began to create the idea of fascination with the limitation and in so doing allow themselves to become enmeshed and locked in so that they could experience all that there was to experience in that mode as well as every other mode that had been experienced within the all that is of non-physicality. Thus in this way they became used to or as you say created the habit of expressing themselves in material ways again, emotionality and thought and belief rather than knowingness. Once they had formed this Habit to a certain degree, they found that the separation became somewhat complete and they were to some degree walled off from their own knowingness and therefore found that they created a physical cycle that you call reincarnation. 

They became embedded in the energy fields of the Earth. In a sense they became a part of its Consciousness, it became a part of your Consciousness. Their Consciousness in this way found themselves now to be of the vibration of Earth, and because of the particular, I say concentration in which your area of space and time time is actuated is realized, they found that the intensity of this concentration of energy kept them locked into the immediate Rings, layers or cycles of energy surrounding the planet, and as such found themselves unable, once again due to their Fascination, unable to break from those Rings, those Cycles without integration. Thus they created for themselves, for yourselves, the idea of the reincarnational path. Now the emergence into physical reality was begun much longer ago in your time than 25,000 of your years, but there were still in the beginning some realization of the connection to the knowing self and thus many realities were created upon your planet, many manipulations of matter and energy which to some degree still manifested the idea of, as you say, heaven or Paradise on Earth. Only when the repetition of Cycles had gotten to a point when beings having lost their sight of their inner selves thus deemed that to gain it back they must gain Mastery and control over their environment and the other beings around them because they could no longer sense the connection between them, they felt that they were not already connected and thus in order to perpetuate a connection they must create the idea of domination of those they saw around them and their environment in order to feel connected because they could no longer sense the natural connection which existed. In this way you have thus the beginning of the idea of the formation of information, the idea of being able to Harbor ideas which are not a part of the whole and pass them off as you will as things which are beneficial for individuals but which only bring certain individuals under the control and domination of others so that they can experience their own self-growth and aggrandisement in a way that allows them, since they now feel powerless, to feel powerful. But it is in that way still the illusion of physical reality.

Now both the idea of religion and to some degree government is Created from this separation from the idea that stories, ideas can be created and perpetuated that have not to do with the connection between things but with those things that can be hidden, separated from, judged upon. And in this way individuals thus found themselves creating the cycle of giving their power over to these individuals who could in that way then protect them from the things they told them existed which the other individuals had no way of knowing whether it was true or not. In this way you will find this repetition has occurred again and again and again throughout this cycle of your 25,000 years in many different forms. Even when the interjection of higher consciousness from other dimensionalities such as in your terms the Christ Consciousness, even when these interjections were to occur, the cycle of Separation was so complete that still it was not understood the messages that were given which usually amounted to the idea that each individual was like unto the Christ Consciousness, was the Christ Consciousness. But the cycle of Separation had ingrained a habit so deep in your mentality and fortified and rigidized the mentality itself to such an extent that the only way these messages could be heard was in the fashion of again giving over the power to the individual and becoming followers rather than doers, rather than leaders themselves. Recognize that the Christ Consciousness never desired to be a leader, never desired leadership, only that it was a reflection through that individual Jesus in such a way as to reflect the idea that every individual is an extension or if you wish a son or daughter of the all that is or God. Recognize therefore that all the ideas that you call religion that seek in this way to deem that the congregations are as such as to need leadership, as to be worth less than the idea of the Divinity, as to be judged by the idea of the Divinity, will all be separations within all that is, will all be the giving away of the power that you are to other individuals who either through helplessness, fear, judgment or self aggrandisement would have you wish to maintain their feeling of powerfulness in the midst of their, I'll say, unconscious feelings of powerlessness because it is their true belief about themselves that they are worth less and not apart, separated from the Divinity that is their right, that is everyone's right to know that he or she actually is. Thus in this way you find the conglomeration, the multitude of religions that will always be a natural result of the confusion that stems from the separation of the self from the all that is that the self knows itself to be when knowing is Forsaken and only the personalities, the mechanisms by which the philosophies are presented into physical reality, only when the philosophies are allowed to be interpreted only by the mentality do you create such a diversification of point of view. Now understand that this is not a judgment against the idea that this was created. Your civilization has chosen, the consciousness of your civilization has chosen as a group to explore all of the different manifestations of negativity through separation of the self from the all that is. This is one of the great Creations within all that is and is in and of itself a valid expression if for no other reason than the fact that all that is can view itself in that way. Recognize that all that is needs no ultimate purpose to express itself in any way that it can simply because it can, it will do so. This is one of the definitions of existence itself, that which has existed before the idea of a purpose does not need a purpose to continue to exist in any way shape or form that it can exist simply because it can. Recognize therefore that the Integrations, the shiftings and changes that are now taking place within your religious institutions, your governmental institutions, your sociological institutions are all taking place because you are now at the end of your cycle of Separation begun 25,000 of your years ago and are now understanding yourselves to be one idea, one homogeneous reality, one energy, one Consciousness, and are beginning to take back your fear, take back your responsibility for having created your lives. You are beginning to reawaken to that time when you projected yourselves into physical materiality and rendered yourselves unto the system of the reincarnational aspects of your planet. You are now Awakening to your original agreements and you are now beginning to realize in this way that all of your separations, all of your religions which would have you become a follower, worth less than the Divinity that you are, not worthy of already knowing yourself to be whole and complete and not in need of saving from anything, you are now beginning in this way to recognize yourselves, the true core self that you are, the true core self that all that is created you to be.

Now all of the ideas of Saviors, whether Jesus, Buddha, Muhammad or whatever other labels you wish to ascribe to these consciousnesses that have in this way manifested physically upon your planet, all of them in their higher aspects are in accord. There are no discrepancies in the energy of the initial Consciousness that is represented through all those ideas you call saviors, but recognize that the first thing a savior knows is that they are not here to save anyone, there is no saving that needs to be done. Any discrepancies which you find in your literature is all a product of the personalities that existed within your civilizations and their interpretations through their own philosophies of what those beings meant. All your literature and any seeming discrepancies are the product of the philosophies being expressed through the personalities that existed at the time the information was delivered. In this way again it has served a purpose, for you now have a background against which to measure the totality of yourself in the expression of the negative separation of yourself from all that is. Recognize therefore that without judging any other religion or your own or yourself, you can allow each and every one of your beings to begin to live the ideas that your supposed saviors told you to live, not to follow them but to listen in this way to your inner being and to recognize that these ideas and foundations that you call religions and government, government in one sense being another type of religion to a certain degree in that you are giving over your fear and your power to a greater power so to speak in your eyes to take care of you, to fend for you, to keep all the things you are afraid of away from your door, to keep you safe, to give you Everlasting peace, comfort and security. You will now find that because these institutions were created out of your lack of willingness to take your own fear and your own responsibility, then they like any Consciousness once created out of fear will want to sustain themselves, and if they were created out of fear, the only methodology they have of sustaining their existence is to create more fear, to keep you separate from yourselves in this way, to keep you thinking and believing that you are less and worth less in the eyes of a greater power, that you are children unable to run your own lives, unable to take responsibility for yourselves. Now understand, though you may in this way allow yourself to create organizational systems, they will not run your lives. It will be a service provided to you in this way by beings that are willing to be of service, not to have you serve them, not to have you inflate their sense of superiority so that they can bolster within themselves a feeling of powerfulness so they do not have to recognize the belief that exists within themselves of their powerlessness. Take back your power, allow yourselves to know yourselves to be your governments, to be your religions. You are every one of these Concepts in your Society. You are your own priests. For surely as you listen to your sermons and go on your way, you are only creating those sermons for yourself in your head, that which you choose to remember it becomes the portion of each and every one of you that is the priest within you that reminds yourself over and over again, if you choose to accept it, that you are not worthy, that you are somehow less than the Divinity that created you. Understand that the Divinity that created you does not think you are less. It knows what you are. It knows itself to be its own Consciousness, but also recognizes itself to be the compilation of all of your own consciousnesses, and as such recognizes the idea of the relationship between you. It is that relationship between the polarities of the one unbroken wholeness and the multitude of consciousnesses that go into making it up. It is the relationship itself that exists and defines the idea of the multitude and the singular God. The relationship actually is all that is. It is what you are. You are the relationship. All of your religions, all of your ideas of separation can dissolve within this one idea, can merge, blend and meld into an understanding, a knowingness that you had many, many, many hundreds of thousands of your years ago. Even though you did choose to exist within the physical reality and the reincarnational cycle, you can still know yourselves in this way. That has been always first and foremost the main message of all of your saviors, of all of your Messengers. Know yourself, and in knowing yourself you will know God, you will know all that is.

We will also point out that all of your literature in your religions will not compromise nor comprise the ideas that were spoken of in full in any aspect. There is no complete record of all that was said by any messenger, only pieces, scant memories, sketchy recordings, many times many years after the actual occurrence. Recognize again that the main reason for all of these recordings is not so much to delineate history but to once again convince or attempt to convince other individuals that this is the way they should believe if they are to be quote unquote saved. Every major religious teaching has to do with bringing the winning over of converts for the bolstering and boosting of the feeling of being powerful to those who know and believe themselves to be powerless. Recognize that as limited as the idea of the personality construct is in representing your wholeness and totality of being, just as limited are all of the perceptions that come through it, including that which you call literature, creative though it may be, beautiful though it may be and perfectly representative of the ideas you have chosen to experience within, I will say, the era and epic story of your creation of separation of yourself from the all that is through the Viewpoint of your relation to the universe which you call religion. This has been your Saga of religion, your view of yourself in relation to the universe, but viewed through the perspective and philosophy of being separate from that Universe.

In this way in the next section of this chapter we will delineate how the blending of the knowing self will give rise to a new view of the relationship of the self of the personality to the all that is, and many of the manifestations which can take place upon your planet when you dissolve the barriers of religion and government. Now understand first and foremost none of these changes will be in your terms changes of force, changes of violence, changes of hate. No, these will all be changes that will occur from the unconditional love that you are now recognizing within yourselves, that you are now recognizing comes from all that is to you regardless of the idea of religion and government, and indeed transcends all of those barriers and artificial lines and constructs. This blending will allow you also to understand how the idea you have called religion and government are yet two more aspects of the overall all knowing philosophy that you have filtered in so many ways through your personalities and will allow you to realize that there is no one way per se. If there was only one way, there would only be one person. Each and every person upon your planet is all the different ways that all that is has of looking at itself. Now you have viewed yourselves through all the different facets that exist within the Oneness. In the next section of this chapter we will in this way as you say attempt to enjoy the view of your entire society and all the individuals within it from the perspective of the unconditional wholeness and support of all that is. In this way you will find that you will be being of service to all that is and automatically thus being served by all that is since you are a part of it. No more need for the separation, the need to feel that you require salvation. You already are salvation itself. You already are Heaven. You already are Paradise. This will be in your terms the conclusion of the first half idea of yourself as all that is. You will begin to recognize within your society that your own Divinity can be expressed still through the personality which will exist as long as you are physical, but in ways that will create as you say heaven on Earth. You will be able to see all of the symbols that have been created in your religions how they actually manifest physically on your planet. You will understand the mechanism of symbology. You will be in touch with your own archetypal energies. You will feel it running through your Consciousness like an underground stream. You will recognize it to be the energy in your subconsciousness that has been responsible for the formation of all of the Illusions and symbols out of which this energy thus was utilized to create all of these symbols to give you something to relate to as long as you were not considering that that which you were relating to was you in terms of the all that is of creation. When you have created this separation out of this archetypal conscious energy, you will always pull symbology that will give you something to reinforce the idea of separation. This you will first and foremost be able to begin to see, and it will in this way manifest through one of the philosophies you call psychology as it has already begun to do so, and this is why the ideas of psychology have begun to replace that you call religion in this way. Therefore you will recognize that there are these streams of consciousnesses that you have created in being an idea of a separation being, you have created separations within your Consciousness into outer aware Consciousness, unconsciousness, subconsciousness, hyperconsciousness, Mass Consciousness and all the different aspects of your personality. Now in times past, yet still within the time of the 25,000 year cycle, all of these personality aspects gave rise to the symbologies of your religious symbology: demons, Angels, visions and so forth. Now not to say that there was not Consciousness nor real energy behind those manifestations, but with your new integrated Viewpoint you will be able to understand how many of these ideas were extensions of your own higher Consciousness reflected back to you through the artificial personality construct using the archetypal energy to create a symbol that you could understand within the separation you had created for yourself to reinforce the fear you were Desiring to create because you had desire to create separation from the all that is, the knowing you, the Oneness that you are. Therefore you have begun to utilize this idea, this tool you call psychology, Psychiatry to understand that you have these streams of energy running within you and that you project these ideas from yourself onto the interactions that you have with other Consciousness or other aspects of your own Consciousness. Now understand in this way therefore as an example that you will begin to see all of the plays, all of the playing out of lives, manifestations of the supposed saviors were more than just physical manifestations, they were also psychic manifestations and operated on many different levels of existence, not just the physical. In this way you'll begin to realize the relationships between different aspects of one Consciousness. As we have said for example, the idea of the Christ consciousness not only manifesting as it was through the idea of the man you called Jesus but also through what you term to be Elijah, John the Baptist and Judas, forming in one particular overlapping life with the threesome of John the Baptist, Jesus and Judas, a Triad, a trio of players actually stemming from the same Consciousness, and in this way Elijah who came before as you say the town crier prophesying it all to pave the way for the play that would be acted out to allow there to be a multitudinous, many faceted Mirror Image Crystal to reflect all the different aspects of the archetypal energies that the people of the time were creating for themselves in their play of separation from the all that is. These things you will begin to see the relationships, the connections, the underlying patterns of synchronicity that have occurred throughout these cycles of Separation that always have been there, always have been the obvious links but have not been seen due to the separation of vision and the limitation placed thereon upon these personalities that you have created. You have as you have said many times been seeing through a glass Darkly. Now you are clearing yourselves. You are becoming clairvoyant in your own life, that is clear seeing, and thus while you have the idea of also psychology and Psychiatry now, you have the idea of psychic also rising to the surface because in that way you are allowing yourself to know you are in constant communication with all aspects of yourself and all aspects of Consciousness no matter where or when they may be. This is the psychic side and creates the polarity of the same energy that gives rise to psychiatry. Psychicness, psychiatry, the same energy in a polarity Viewpoint. You will always have polarity as long as you create yourself to be physical, and this will be the next aspect that you will understand, polarity as one of the definitions of physical reality. Understand already how this simple integration of the Viewpoint of the blending of yourselves, of the being of yourselves to be all that is, has already taken many, many magnitudes of steps away from the concept you call religion and thus is already beginning to lay the foundations of exactly how this energy will blend into all the other disciplines upon your planet. As we will take them a chapter at a time, you will see how they all key in and the foundations are formed right here in this particular aspect, the philosophy which in a sense is now more purely represented by the idea of the Blended religion, simply philosophy and its expressions of the polarities that you will understand Define the physical reality. Thus the first polarity that you are experiencing as the offshoot of religion to be again as we have said psychicness and psychiatry. In much the same way you will find that as atomic structure gives rise to the diversification of particles out of a nebulous idea of an atom, as you and your Society learns in this way to define the nature of reality with more and more awareness, more and more Precision in a sense, in the same you will find that these ideas of the polarities of psychicness and Psychiatry are like unto those more precise Atomic components that rise out of the nebulousness of the idea of religion in the same manner as the particles do out of the nebulousness of the overall idea of a simple atom. Now though you may find at first that the seeming array of polarities or particles to continue the analogy May create more confusion rather than simplification as you are now finding in your physics, you will also find in your methodologies of looking at yourself and your philosophies that you will approach a basic understanding within the idea of the energies of the polarities themselves, of the idea of polarity itself in the same manner that your physicists are approaching a basic point of view that they call unified field. In this way there is a direct correlation in this analogy by noting that both psychicness and Psychiatry will be polarized components that do stem from a more unified field or philosophy, and it is this idea, this Foundation perspective, which will be responsible for not only unifying and blending all of your sociological philosophies or aspects but also those you call scientific, economic. Therefore as we have said you will find that in any discipline, once you begin to employ the aspect of integration in your perspective in your Viewpoint, very quickly it will move away from the initial concept that was created within separation, losing many of the earmarks of that particular discipline. Therefore psychicness and Psychiatry will first lose the earmarks of religion that deal with being at the mercy of outside forces, being judged. You will find therefore that both psychicness and Psychiatry are in this way attempts to understand the self and the self's relation, the personality relation to the all that is from the initial step of taking back power, of gaining control or rather knowing that you have control already of every aspect of your life, and it is your responsibility as an individual and a collective to know that this control that you have is something you can use as a tool to make your Society what you wish it to be, no longer at the mercy of little understood outside forces, judgments and irrational acts of some mythical god or goddess or Gods. Understand in this way that when we use the term God, we are referring to all of the limited definitions that your Society has created. In our concept we simply refer to the idea of creation as all that is, which covers everything and is everything and indicates that all that is knows it is all that is. Recognize many times that the previous definitions from The Limited terminology out of which these terms god, goddess, gods have come many times will still impose upon the idea of all that is some sort of limitation in that it will give rise to contradictions such as God is omnipotent yet somehow still God is not me, outside of me, I am outside of God. By definition, if God is everywhere, everything, then you are not outside God. God is not outside you. You are God. God Is You by definition. Thus we prefer the term all that is. It is not in this way so limiting, for somehow out of the separation you have created the idea that even though God can be omnipotent, it can still somehow not be contained within you. Thus in the blending you will also see that your definitions are also limiting and only reflective of The Limited aspects you have heretofore deemed to be worthy to look at, that you have deemed to be, I'll say, safe to view as long as you are creating and generating the idea of fear. Certain ideas of your personality, certain ideas of your beliefs, certain ideas of your emotionality, certain ideas of your mentality were considered to be not safe as they would always when Blended together give rise to what in your past would be heresy, the idea that you somehow were connected in a more basic fundamental way to the all that is and in this way go against the grain of separatism that had been for so long the cannon of all your religions and all your teachings. Thus polarity itself will simply be seen from your new Viewpoint, your Blended Viewpoint, to be one of the definitions of physical reality, as will time and space. In this way you will find that religion when viewed from a blended Viewpoint, as it loses its qualities of separatism, will begin to take on more and more aspects and point more in the direction of the idea that you have created in your society that you call science, and this is why it will lead us directly into the idea of your next chapter, which will be in this way science. We will then again explore how even science, being that it was created in the era of separatism, created many ideas that still did not allow for unification or blending with any other discipline and kept itself aloof and how your science has now begun to understand that through its own unification it will by definition begin to include many other disciplines that have for a long time in your Society not been considered the domain of science.

Now we will give, as we will now at the end of each chapter some space for there to be asked representational questions so as to cover for each subject many of those ideas that may be lingering in the consciousness of those who will either hear or read this material. In this way now these questions may be asked, or if there are no questions, you may at the end of each chapter delineate if you will notes or comments from your own society and the individuals thus putting together, co-creating this work with us, associating with us in the spirit of the association. Thus this portion of each chapter will give your civilization an opportunity to become a part of the association, as we will then step by step, chapter by chapter, hand in hand form and co-create this idea of the blending so that your civilization, our civilization and all of the levels of consciousness as we create this work will find it to be as you say a catharsis for each every being involved, and thus in this way as we begin this work through an idea of being separate civilizations, upon its ending there will be the opportunity to begin to view that we are all one civilization working hand in hand exploring together, forming new ideas of ourselves with each other and giving ourselves the opportunity to recognize that much more of all that is that we each have to explore within us. The quote unquote new religion if you will, but no religion will it be.


### Q&A

**Question:** What is the common denominator and direction if any of all religions is related to each of us?

**Answer:** To some degree as we have discussed the idea of the commonality is simply your exploration of what you are willing to believe yourselves to be. As long as you have created yourself to be separate from the all that is that you are, this exploration has taken place outside yourselves, and so the creation of ritual to understand and reflect to yourselves all that you can contain in your reality. But in this way now that you're becoming integrated, you will find that this exploration goes within and that the ritualized tools are no longer necessary. Thus each and every one of you recognizing yourself to be your own path and hence your own religion so to speak will now recognize that the religion in that form as you have created it is no longer necessary to understand your relationship to yourself as all that is.

**Question:** What would be the most universal saving ritual if there was a ritual to bridge this place where we no longer need Ritual from a religious point of view that we could engage into to experience increasing integration among ourselves?

**Answer:** Simply the expression of unconditional love. Understand that the underlying supposed mode or principle behind all of what you experience upon your planet to be your separate religions is supposedly that it is all based on the idea of the love of creation for its Creations. Thus you are the Creator, you are those Creations. Love yourselves, love each other. Life and love are the only so-called rituals you need to integrate. A person who has a question about the religious ritual that they see themselves using or connecting to others, what you're saying is that that ritual is unconditional love. You can simply recognize that if you are questioning the ritual that you have created in your habit and that you are now assuming or wondering whether or not you require anymore, you can always recognize that all that you have been creating the ritual for is for the purpose of expressing the love of creation that you feel existed in the Creator to create you. Thus you can simply render all the habitual rituals down to the expression of unconditional love. Thus it becomes not so much, I'll say, Hollow ritual but true active sharing, and you will see your so-called religions actually acting themselves out upon the surface of your planet.

**Question:** I have a question about religious experience which is a bit different from the idea of religion. Could you comment on the idea of the Oneness of the religious experience and the differences in the cultural expression of that experience?

**Answer:** Now to some degree we just have the idea of the Oneness is the recognition, the base idea recognition of the Oneness that you all are. You are all exploring the same idea from different points of view. The different points of you are simply existent because there are different individuals. It is a recognition, an allowing recognition if you will create it that way, that there is not just one path in the understanding of yourself as all that is. If there were only one path there would only be one person because there is more than one person, you can recognize that there are many many roads that all lead to the same understanding.

**Question:** Then from your point of view the same question about the common denominator and direction of all prophecies as they relate to each of us?

**Answer:** Do some degree, although once again recognize in our perception there is really no such thing as a prediction, Prophecy of the future. It is a sensing of the energy which exists at the time the prediction is made. Now those that deal with the idea of mass consciousness, of which the idea of religion is greatly contained therein, the idea of the mass civilization, you will find that the senses of the direction in which this energy will flow will have been accurate. But in this way many interpretations placed upon the prophecies will have to do with the idea of exactly the methodology by which you will come to the understanding of yourselves as all that is. In times that were deep into the separation of yourself from the all that is that you are, these ideas of integration were viewed as straying from the so-called tress of one particular religion that was being put forth and thus were seen that this integration now occurring upon your planet were seen to be something they call all evil. Therefore you will simply be able to recognize that all the prophecies so to speak are all saying the same thing, that you are integrating, that this is an age of transformation and you're going to shift into a new idea of yourself. But all the different ideas that have to do with judgment, Armageddon, rebuken and all of the ideas of Separation, the idea that you have to struggle, go through trial by fire in order to deserve living in Harmony and peace, are all products of the viewpoints of the time in which the prophet were made.

**Question:** So is that idea also relevant to say the Prophecies of Nostradamus?

**Answer:** To some degree, yes.

We thank you for the sharing of your questions and allow us to remind you that when you create the idea of question, it is only that you already contain the answers. The form of the question will simply be that you have separated this idea of the answer you already contained from your knowledge. However, in this way once again we thank you for the willingness to express your Explorations for your civilization and our civilization is the sharing that continues forever.

Now allow us in this way to discuss the idea in this the chapter two of the work, the discipline philosophy that you on your planet refer to as science. Recognize as we have said, all other philosophy on your planet in this way will be channeled through the perspective created within the personality so that these perspectives can be applied in this way according to the purposes for which you have ordained to create these disciplines, these scenarios within your civilization at this time.

Now recognize that all that you know upon your planet to be that which you call science has been created within the 25,000 year cycle of separation of yourself from the all that is that you are. Therefore this background in and of itself is responsible for the creation of the Viewpoint from which the majority of what has been your science proceeds. That is that the universe as you know it is something separate from yourselves. In this way therefore you Endeavor to search to make a connection between what you perceive to be your own existence and that which you perceive round and about you. In this same manner recognize that the idea of scientific questioning, the idea of a question will be from the same foundational Viewpoint that the universe is not what you are but something separate. In the same way recognize that a question is an answer that you already contain but view from the perspective of being separate from the answer and in way reflecting back to yourselves a reminder in a separated Viewpoint that you do contain the answer but you choose to view it outside yourselves and so create the polarity that you call a question. Now understanding this way that if you can conceive of an idea, you are automatically at the point of conception, at the point of perception, the totality of the idea itself is what you are. You have in creating your science within this period of Separation thus created for yourself a framework, a scenario in which you feel you must struggle, strive, Reach Out, achieve these answers since you believe them to be something that you do not already know. Now in this way recognize we are not judging that this has been your methodology, simply that this is the methodology that will occur when you create the idea of your exploration of yourselves from a separate or separated Viewpoint.

Now we will in what you term to be the second portion of this chapter discuss how an integrated Viewpoint will allow, as it has begun to allow some of the individuals upon your planet you call physicists, to recognize how that which you have referred to for so long as a separate universe is all together as you say part and parcel of what you are, who you are and your perspective. They are in this way Inseparable, and in that portion we will discuss the effects of allowing yourself more and more realization of such an integration of yourself with the Universe.

In this way through the idea first of separation and what has been created in your science, allow us to address the idea you call Evolution. Now there is much discussion, and this will be brought up again in a later chapter, metaphysics, but there has been much discussion between the idea of Science and metaphysics or even a religion in the sense that science in your terms seeks to have quote unquote proof for what it chooses to believe in, whereas the idea that you call metaphysics and religion from a scientific point of view does not require the idea that you call proof but only belief and Faith. Now allow me to say that within this subject you call Evolution has been one of the greatest opportunities for many of these discussions, many times you call them arguments to arise regarding the ideas of proof, belief and Faith. Simply first of all recognize that science, though they have locked themselves into a certain perspective which many times does not allow them to see it as such, are going off of just as great a belief and faith in creating what they deem to be their proofs. Many of your physicists have now begun to realize that you will always get the results that you expect to get based upon how your belief about a situation allows you to design the experiment that you wish to create in order to obtain any particular proof. They are intrinsically connected, and many times you have for yourselves created the idea of quote unquote proof not realizing that even the idea you call proof many times will only be a matter of perspective and not in an overall sense any immutable quote unquote law of the universe. Now there are agreements within the mass consciousness of this particular universe that you call your own that do seem to construct Frameworks that you call laws of physics. This is still created from an overview of Consciousness we will describe in the chapter called template metaphysics, and we will in your terms discuss it there. For now, again the definitions of your science as they apply to the idea you call evolution in this way recognize that there is, contrary to some of your religions, a physical universe that does quote unquote take time to allow ideas of Consciousness to manifest. Thus the idea of evolution of physical form is more or less a reality. There are some factors that you have not yet discovered within this idea of evolution that you will discover that will allow you to round out the idea of exactly how this mechanism may take place physically. Understand however that contrary to Scientific opinion, Consciousness is not a product of physical Evolution. Understand in this way that when physicality, being a projection of creation, reached a certain vibratory state of evolution, then it could allow Consciousness, nonphysical Consciousness, to allow itself to identify with physicality or project itself into physicality. Thus the idea of what you term in your belief structure to be creationism and the idea of what in your scientific structure you call physical Evolution are both correct in a sense in an overall General sense. There was a physical Evolution up to a certain point. Consciousness already having been created projected itself into physicality and there was a blending and a joining. Now this was still many, many, many millions of your years ago as you count time. The idea of humanity being created four, five or 6,000 years ago notwithstanding, these are filtered perspectives. In this way recognize that you can begin to view a blending between the ideas of evolution and creationism if you allow yourselves to recognize that your Source in your terms is outside of physicality and that physicality is simply your vehicle. Also if you allow yourself to understand that what in your terms may be the twinkling of an eye or an instant in non-physical universes, as an example your quote unquote six days of creation, still in terms of creating physicality translates out into a Time Track which is in your terms much slower than non-physical rates of acceleration. Thus it can be many millions of years and still be the same quote unquote 6 days, although we are not saying this is an accurate count. It is still allegorical or an analogy. However the concept will still be correct. That which is created in that way and exists within non-physicality will have a higher rate of accelerated existence to its own perception then the physical universe will in exemplifying the very same Act of Creation.

Now we will also discuss more in the second half of this chapter the ideas that go into actually defining physical reality, which is time, space and polarity. For now allow us to address some of the ideas in your science that you call astronomy. Recognize that you have been, and we do not need to tell you this, looking to the stars for many years. Some of your scientific quote unquote Revelations have come from such an activity, and at this point in your science of astronomy you are still relatively restricted again as you know in your ability to pierce the veil of the atmosphere of your planet. And in many ways some of the gravitic tensor Dynamic fields which allow light to be obscured or bent and some of the ideas of energy fields which we'll discuss in template metaphysics that you have yet to discover or maybe just beginning to realize are there that also play a part in your understanding or limitation of understanding with what you perceive through your Optical and radio telescopes. Now one of the ideas specifically that you have been addressing of late is the concept of whether or not you are the only quote unquote intelligence living on other planets. You have created for yourselves many ways to attempt to perceive whether or not there is communication from these other civilizations, what you term to be radio telescope being the primary application of this endeavor. Allow me to say it is at this time unlikely that you will receive in radio communication anything from any nearby Civilization. Now there have been a few civilizations nearby that did begin their communication history electronically as you say with the idea you call radio, but the nearest one ended its radio communication some time before you began yours, and in this way their radio signals have long since passed your planet as they radiated outward. In this way recognize also many civilizations do not use radio and never have, even though this may astonish you because you feel that radio noise as you say is a natural occurrence in the universe. Recognize that the great degree of separation in your particular history has not allowed you to recognize the communication that can occur from mind to mind, and for many civilizations technological communication never comes into existence at all, or if it does many times it is carried in the form you call cables or highly focused beams of energy which do not radiate outward. So to you their civilizations will always be silent. Now in this way many of the methodologies utilized will take advantage of the idea you call a hyperspace phenomenon, simply originating at the point where the communication is sent and arriving at the point where it is received without appearing to travel any intervening distance in what you term to be three-dimensional physical space. Therefore you may be listening for quite some time in radio frequency before you will hear anything. Allow me to say there probably will be physical contact between our civilizations long before you will hear anything on your radio telescopes.

Now science in general upon your planet we will say does represent in a sense the closest approach to the idea of integration of understanding your relationship to the idea of yourself as all that is, and this is why your physics, particularly the branch you call quantum mechanics, has begun to allow you to perceive the connection of your Consciousness to the universe. But still many times science feels it needs to create proofs that exclude the ideas of faith and belief. Now understand in this way with regard to metaphysics, this idea of requiring physiological proof will never in those terms be able to glean an acceptable proof from the area you call psychic phenomena until it is understood that your definitions of that discipline are being in your terms biased by what you think it should be. Recognize in this way that when you attempt to record the idea of psychic phenomena, many times it is done in such a highly sterile, unemotional condition that you do not realize that the emotionality itself, the spontaneity of life itself is one of the things that gives rise to that phenomena. This is where science creates its own barrier to the exploration of its connections to many other fields of endeavor which can be incorporated scientifically into the body of knowledge you understand, but not always Always by scientific methodology as you have created it within separation. Understand that you are beginning to realize, though this will be difficult to accept for many of your scientists, that even science, far from the cold analytical process you have allowed it to be up to this point, is actually yet another experiential perspective and not something separate from yourself. Now, I'll say that your science has prized an attitude that you call skepticism. Recognize that while it is a requirement of the personality in creating the idea of a search to allow itself to make sure that it will not run into what you term to be extraneous information, that very skepticism creates a focus many times so narrow that it becomes not skepticism but bias. And in this way once again it will cancel the ability for scientists to perceive anything beyond the ideas that have been created which Define the parameters of what is acceptable to your definition of science. Many times this can even extend into a being's emotionality itself. Now we recognize that there are many scientists upon your planet that allow themselves to be very emotional in this way. Allow me to suggest that we know that privately in your terms many of these scientists allow themselves to at least play with the idea that much of what is not accepted by science in its strictest sense is still something they can experience and something they often do experience, particularly among family members as that is a very close emotional bond. In this way recognize simply that when these scientists are willing to allow their emotionality, we are not saying irrationality but emotionality, emotion energy motion, to be yet another type of energy force that will fit in to their equations in a manner they can understand, then they will begin to allow themselves more freedom of motion and more insight into their connections with all that is.

Now in the second portion of this chapter we will discuss the integration of this idea of consciousness and Viewpoint an exploration with regards to its techniques when time, space and polarity become one thing. This will be end of side one.

[Side two begins]
One day your physicists come upon a direction that seems to point in a very literal way to the idea that you are creating the universe that you perceive. Many times they will back off and they will say oh no well this is simply an interpretation, it is simply the best interpretation that can be, but this is not really what is happening. Now understand that bit by bit they will understand that this is what is happening when they allow themselves more freedom of integration.

Now time, space and polarity are what allow you to exist and form the definitions of what you call existence in physical reality. They are the definitions, the parameters, the Frameworks that have allowed you to create separation of yourself from the all that is that you are. Now once your civilization allows itself to explore to utilize its curiosity and to create acceptable, allowable equations which will include Consciousness, nonphysical Consciousness, into your scientific Explorations, you will begin to understand that much of the quote unquote information or data can begin to be intrinsically unfolded within the consciousness of all beings who generate for themselves the type of vibrational curiosity that allows them to call themselves explorers or scientists. You can create a vibration of knowingness that when anyone chooses to participate in such a vibration, they can allow themselves to recognize in your terms the reality of all the perspectives you are now discovering in your physics. You have exemplified to some degree this idea by what you term to be your unified field theories. Now understand that you are your Consciousness is a field, and it will have to be one of the fields in the unification Theory, though you find that your unification Theory though it will account for the ideas you call weak, Electro weak as you have Blended them and strong nuclear and, I'll say, gravitational forces will only be accounting for the physicalized manifestation of those fields. Recognize that gravity will even be seen to have physical and non-physical counterparts within the template we will describe in chapter 7 of the work. The Consciousness field also will be a portion of this template field which we will Define later as we have said. Recognize that your unified Fields will extend into non-physicality allowing you to understand in this way that Consciousness and the foundation template will form the last two that you will seek to integrate, thus there not being as you have said four energies to unify but six, which will be exemplified in some very obvious ways and symbols later.


Now within Sciences ability to recognize that all ideas are vibration, will be able to create ideas of space travel that will allow them to understand how you are not something which exists within space and time but that space and time are properties of any object within it.

Both our communication and our space travel will be based on the vibrational understanding. 

Create 2 objects identical in every way physically, measure for measure, molecule for molecule, atom for atom, Quark for Quark.

They are still two different objects by definition of their locations in space.

Locational vibration is a property of each object, one possessing location A, one possessing location B. 

In this way you can recognize that with the utilization of Consciousness and the template you can create a field which can unlock the idea vibration of an object from any particular physical reality it is experiencing and you can remove or replace the idea identity of its locational vibration with another one. For example, take out location A, replace with location B. 

In this way you will be able to understand that when you release this unlocking field and allow the object to rematerialize, re-physicalize, it will by definition need to take up Residence at location B rather than A. 

It now will seem to have traversed as you say magically the distance in between while no real traveling has occurred at all. It has in a sense been recreated from one point to another. Now understand that this is not so mysterious, this occurs all the time because time is also something you are creating, and as you have already understood, space and time are discontinuous. 

It is not a smooth Continuum in the sense that it flickers on and off as you understand it, although not so much off but simply shares moments with other dimensions of reality in such a way as to flicker so rapidly that you do not experience these other dimensions until you synchronize with them. You synchronize with one at a time.

All the other dimensions of experience including the idea you call the past and the future exist in between all the moments you call your reality. 

Thus recognize that while you seem to even walk down your street, you are actually a continuous broken series of recreated images that because it vibrates so rapidly you choose to perceive as a smooth Continuum. 

In this way recognize you can remove many of the interim steps between point A and B and simply be at A and then B without having to perceive the flow of movement in between. All of these ideas will be able to be projected into physical testability when you allow yourself to know that your Consciousness is one of the vibrations within the unified fields.

In this way you can begin to understand how science is also simply a philosophy and how it can blend with the ideas of faith, for in this way you will understand that since you are the vibration of your reality physically and thus create that reality to be reflected back to the idea of your personality which contains the mentality that contains the senses, you will be able to understand through this integration that while science as you have known it has postulated that seeing is believing, it will now allow itself to experience the polarity of believing is seeing, and in this way you will also recognize that the idea of polarity itself will be a vibration which created the ability to separate yourself from the universe. 

You will be able to measure its properties in a sense as you will be able to understand the ideas of space time within one physical equation. You will also be able to understand how all of the ideas you have called religion, sociology, economics, politics Will all fit into science mathematics. You will also be able to understand in your mathematics and your science how it is not so much that you are an observer with an observed phenomena but that the actual event is the observation itself. 

In other words your mathematics and your science will become more representative of the relationships of that which you call your physical Universe rather than the objects within it. Thus they will become whole conceptual. 

They will be whole Concepts. Your equations will and can be rendered more into the idea of the pictographs of language exhibited by some of your cultures upon your planet where one symbol is not simply a phonetic component but an entire Concept in and of itself. 

Your mathematics can contain this idea, and that is why language and music do exhibit the idea of mathematics because they also contain relationships in this way that are reflective of the vibrational interlocking patterns of energy that create all of the interactions and relationships and give rise to that which you perceive through your polarized personality to be all of the discreet and separated objects and particles that you think your physical reality is constructed from.

In the next chapter of creativity we will discuss some of the Avenues, techniques and methodologies by which science and faith can be Blended within imagination and still be viewed by both viewpoints as real experiential reality.

Thus within creativity we will explore the imagination and its use as a tool not from a separated viewpoint but from the integrated Viewpoint that many times within science has given rise to many of your discoveries without the need to create linear proofs beforehand, and within that we will also discuss the idea you call cause and effect.

We will now proceed with the sharing and the question and interactions pertaining to this subject.

**Question:** From one point of view the Mind represents all Consciousness and the Brain represents the physiological. Would you share your point of view on this idea?

**Answer:** Thank you. Now the mind so to speak is the product of Consciousness filtering through the creation of the physiological brain. The mind is not so much all Consciousness but it is representative of all physiological Consciousness and makes use of the electromagnetic field of your Earth for the creation of what you call mentality. This is why your brain is an electrical, magnetic, chemical phenomena in this way and processes Consciousness. 

It is a processor for Consciousness and renders it into the form of Consciousness by which you communicate in physical reality. This form of Consciousness is called mind or mentality and represents fluctuations and vibrations in the electromagnetic field of your planet that connects you all and is why you can have the idea of telepathy because you are all immersed in this fluid, and the brain is connected and in this way will always process and funnel and channel that electromagnetic field or fluid through itself in whatever ways it needs to to form identifications with identical patterns in other individuals. Thus the fluid for every individual will usually flow in the same way allowing there to be what is called a recognition, a congruency or an identification from mind to mind, forming the ability to translate the similarity of vibration from one individual to another so that both can share a single idea, a single thought in mental form.

**Question:** Could you talk a little bit about the black hole idea in the brain as it relates to the black hole idea in our cells?

**Answer:** Simply you will understand that every cell is to some degree metaphysically a smaller version of that device which you call your brain in the sense that they perform similar functions on one specific level and that is the funneling of the Consciousness in an electrochemical magnetic way. You will understand that as you create yourself to be an electromagnetic pattern of vibrations, as each and every one of these waves of electromagnetic vibrations overlaps all the Nexus points of the overlapping, all the cross points of overlapping will represent the central black hole points in the center of every cell of your being, and since they are all funneling through the black hole so to speak, the doorway, the Gateway actually in a sense the white hole of the center of your brain, then you will find there is black hole, white hole in the center of your brain, black hole, white hole in the center of every cell as each Nexus point both the main one in the center of your brain and the one in the center of every cell will represent the coming and going, positive and negative fluctuation of the energy of your Consciousness in and out of physical reality as it flickers on and off so to speak, because your physical reality as your physicists have already discovered is discontinuous, that is it exists in discreet recreated moments of time over and over and over and over and over again.

**Question:** Does the double helix represent any of the idea that you're discussing?

**Answer:** Yes to some degree it will represent the flow of the energy, and this is recognized in your oric field your energy pattern field and why the idea of what you call your acupuncture can function for it is in that way a redirecting or an interruption so to speak of that flow in various ways because there is a direction to the flow. It will be outward and then inward spiraling down and up simultaneously.

**Question:** Does that idea have any relationship to the time space idea that you talked about before which is even more a part of the blueprint than the Quirk that we've discovered?

**Answer:** In a sense you can understand that upon the template the energy allows itself to exist, all will be performing the spiral motions and simply it will be a matter of spirals within spirals within spirals.

**Question:** Atomically speaking, will you correlate and Define the relationship between physical laws and metaphysical laws?

**Answer:** Now they are to some degree one and the same thing, although this will be on a basic fundamental level. What you recognize in your Universe to be the laws of physics will represent the agreed upon non-physical agreements that were made by all Consciousness partaking of the creation of this physical universe that they have created. Thus you will find that the physical laws will be reflections of something which at first is a very metaphysical source so to speak. Then all of the quote unquote metaphysical laws, if you wish to call them that which come under the so-called laws of physics, will once again simply be the reflections of the enactment of the energy upon the template as Consciousness impinges itself upon the template to allow the energy to manifest in various forms. The idea of the congruency of the laws of physics and metaphysical laws are quite similar. What you may understand as metaphysical laws so to speak are simply different aspects of the same energy. You are through metaphysical terms discovering the same things you are discovering in physical terms, only you are giving them different labels and coming at them from different points of view. For the most part they are one in the same idea, and as we said when the idea of reason is allowed into metaphysical thought and the idea of Consciousness is allowed into physical thought, you will see the commonality and the synchronicity of both approaches.

**Question:** How does each set of these laws relate to the individual human process?

**Answer:** You are everything that is. Because you have created the type of reality in which you are experiencing the separateness of yourself, you will then experience the polarity of every situation. Thus every being in your civilization will experience the polarity of all situations that you create.

**Question:** Will you please explain the process of photons and their cycle of being?

**Answer:** You may recognize photonic energy to be one of the defining ideas of space time. Everything that you perceive to be in your reality, space time and all the matter and energy, are variations of the idea of the photon in a sense, whether it be in what you call physical or metaphysical term. Recognize simply that it is what proceeds forth from the center of the zero point in the tetrahedral symbolic equational structure and gives form to the idea of the crystal of the double tetrahedron. In this way it is what carries the idea of reality. Photon is what carries the idea of reality. It is a self-reflecting quanta. It is its own polarity. It is all and nothing. It reflects both sides positive and negative. It carries within each Quant, each Photon, the idea of the totality of all that can be. This is why you have discovered the idea of hologram through light, for light is in and of itself the totality of the holographic universe and will give rise to the ability of anything to exist anywhere in the universe. It is the on and off switch that creates everything everywhere simultaneously as it is an expression of nothing in particular anywhere.

**Question:** What is it that makes one atom unit a common denominator of all Dimensions?

**Answer:** It is not a common denominator of all Dimensions. It is the common denominator of your physicalized dimension and many others in various ways simply because this is one of the vibrational patterns which allows you to perceive the universe as being something outside yourself and also allows you as you have done to quote unquote backtrack to the idea that all that you perceive to be complexity is derived from single unified expression of energy and Consciousness.
