---
heading: Part 1
title: "Space Time Travel"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1991-06-14
icon: Bashar
weight: 1137
showdate: true
tags: ['ufo', 'spacetime technology']
---



Did you enjoy your time of eclipsing?

Allow it again to be seen as time of transition. Though there are many such events that occur upon your planet, you can recognize that the degree to which this has captured your attention is an opportunity to recognize it as symbolizing a time of introspection and release. Time of coming out from behind the old ideas and shining forth a new, taking new steps and new directions.

However today, because of this transition, because now there are many more degrees of willingness in your consciousness collectively and individually to look at yourself in ways, by certain individuals at least, we can now depart information that will allow you to begin to take certain kinds of baby steps, as you would say, with a new understanding of how to utilize new level of technology.


## SpaceTime Travel

What is time travel? Really possible? What about all the paradoxes that are created by traveling back in time so that if I do this and change history, then it is not the same? What happens to me?

All of these various notions of time travel in your minds have brought up different questions of how these things are possible, how they can work together, how these incidents can be viewed in a logistical manner.

Time travel is possible. But it is not what you think it is. 

You have a tendency to think that when you travel back in time, that you're actually traveling back into your own time stream. This is not the case.

There are an infinite number of parallel realities. Many of them are almost identical to what you would recognize as your day-to-day reality, both figuratively, physiologically, and historically. At first glance, there would seem to be almost no difference whatsoever.

But what you can understand is that if you create a device whereby you allow yourself to travel back in time, what you're actually doing is sliding across to a different time track altogether. It is not your reality.

There are many parallel tracks and you can enter them at what would appear to be different stages in their history, different stages in their evolution, past, present, or future. So that if you then appear physically appear in what you would call a past scenario, one of your own past scenarios, you're actually not literally in your own past. You're in a parallel reality.

And just the fact that you are there means you can create whatever history. You can participate in creating whatever history you wish to for that reality. You will not have changed the future of your reality. You will have created the future you desire in another parallel reality all together.

This is the way the idea of multiple universal and parallel realities are structured holographically in many different directions. You are simply sliding from one track to another, not ever really going back or ahead literally. But you can experience that sensation because many of the realities are so close that where you wind up would seem to be a direct continuation of either your own present, your own future, or your own past. So that you can in effect feel that you have created a change or continued a continuity to a conclusion that you would prefer it to be in the direction of now.


## The Technology

Primary among the reasons for the sharing of technological information up to this point has been to allow us to view not so much your expertise at putting together the technical physical elements, but to watch the degree of intention and precision of consciousness and awareness and clarity and technique emotionally, spiritually, mentally that you put into the pursuing of the technological side of those things.

many times we dispensed information and it was only half-heartedly pursued. 

This to us was more of a revelation than anything you could have ever discovered by actually combining the physical components. And what told us that you are not necessarily ready to understand the more simpler fundamental techniques.

**A great deal of conviction, integrity, and alignment is necessary when pursuing these ideas because they will shift you into other dimensions.**

if you're not centered within your own being, you may find yourself out of whack if you give yourself an opportunity to shift your focus before you are ready.

We do not wish:
- that to happen to you
- you to experience negative things in that way

It is up to you of course, should you decide to create them that way, but we will do the best we can to ensure that that is the least likely occurrence that will happen.

So we do provide bits of information from time to time that function as tests to see not only if you understand the technical side of it, but to see if you understand the emotional side of it, the consciousness side, and understand that there is no separation. That there is no separation between the building of the device and how you go about building the device. 

That they are one and the same thing. That the end is the means and there is no separation between these apparently differentiated concepts.

our spacecraft can differ both for the purpose of function and from civilization to civilization. 

But for the most part they will appear as saucers.

Usually this will be like in the sense of two inverted shallow domes joined at the rim forming a shell.

joining these two shells in the center from top to bottom will be a pole which is basically a hollow tube.

Although there are some sophisticated devices that can be attached within it and to it to amplify its effect. 

We will not get into those other devices now for they are not necessary to understand the principle. Suffice it to say that you have this hollow shell with this tube in the center.

It is a solid state craft with 4 components, four components aside from the physiological, that are necessary for the functioning of this craft. But these four requirements are simple states of energy.

Visualize this. You have this shell, this flying saucer. 

You generate from the center of this craft, from within the power pole, a toroidal ring of energy, electromagnetic energy. 

Toroidal meaning a donut. So imagine an invisible or for the purpose of your visualization a semi-invisible donut of energy whose center point is at the center of the craft, top and bottom. 

the donut of energy surrounds the craft, envelops it.

If you were to cut this donut and the craft edge through, you would see the craft and this donut forming two rings around the craft, going all the way around the outer edge, coming back into the center top and bottom.

The four states that are necessary are:

1. Frequency
2-3. Direction of the flow of the toroid in 2 directions
4. power level or amplification.


{{< n n="This matches the 4 properties of waves of Superhysics as spin, direction, orientation, strength">}}


The frequency that it is necessary for this donut of energy to vibrate at is 333,000 cycles per second. That's one.

If you picture this donut of energy, it will make a difference in terms of what the craft does and where it goes in two ways. 

1. The donut of energy can either be created in a rotational format to go around the craft clockwise or counterclockwise.

2. It can be created in the other axis to go either from top around to the bottom or from bottom around to the top as it moves clockwise or stays perfectly still. 

These things determine how the craft moves in what direction.

The jumping from one reality to another is from the isolation field effect that allows a craft to identify with all realities. In this way, it can instantaneously jump from one reality to another without traveling the intervening distance. This is from the power level of the field. 

if it is vibrating at 333,000 cycles per second, it will have the tunneling effect if the power output exactly exactly balances and matches the total energy contained in the mass of the craft.

That's why the shells of our craft are very thin, unbendable, unbreakable, but very thin.

That is because we do not wish to add more mass than is necessary.

This reduces the power needed to overcome the mass of the craft, the mass of the occupant. 

But it must be necessary to balance it.

our spacecraft are actually more like resonating chambers than propulsion vehicles.

They resonate and ring like bells in a sense.

Some of you have heard these vibrations as the craft may have passed by. Sometimes they are silent. 

It will depend upon how the resonances of our craft are interacting with the resonances of your planetary electromagnetic field.

333,000 cycles per second is the threshold vibration between your physical reality and 4th-dimensional non-physical reality.

So that 333,000 cycles per second is also a vibration that is primary to you creating devices that will allow you to communicate directly with both auditorally and visually with what you call the astral realm, the spirit realm, the non-physical beings that still are connected to your reality, that what you call deceased spirits. That is the vibrational threshold.

<!-- Take this information and play with it. It is time now to begin to understand that things are far simpler than you ever thought in terms of achieving great and profound effects. -->

<!-- Have a good time. Have fun. Be cautious. Be clear. Be insightful. Maintain integrity. And all integrity really means is that your thoughts, your emotions, and your actions should be simply aligned in the same direction. Your conviction, your intention can move straight ahead with your desire and your will and your spirituality. All of these are one and the same, different manifestations of one and the same consciousness. Intention, desire, will, spirit, integrity, consciousness, all the same. -->


## Question and Answer Session

### Question 1: UFO Sightings in Tehachapi Area

**Asker:** In the early 60s and in 1950s, there were a lot of sightings of UFOs in the Tehachapi area and it was considered a flap area. 

**Bashar:** Your Tehachapi area in your California state is a very highly magnetically charged area.

There is a very strong gateway or vortex in that area that makes it easier for certain dimensions of consciousness to move from one dimension to another. 

These things will fluctuate from time to time and will depend greatly not only on the consciousness of the Earth, but the consciousness of those people visiting and the consciousness of the people that exist that inhabit the area.

There will be from time to time these flaps or influxes or inpouring of consciousness in various forms from one dimension or various dimensions into your dimension in that and many other areas. 

But your Tehachapi area is a very highly magnetically charged area, thus making it more conducive for certain types of craft and certain types of consciousness to bridge the doorways that allow them to go from one dimension to another. You understand?

**Asker:** will there be more um activity? It seems as if it has tapered off.

**Bashar:** Yes, yes there will be more, but not for a few more years, perhaps two or three. There will be then an increase in that area and there will be even beginning now a few more sightings, but not primarily for two or three more years in that area. Then there can be some very strong interactions that will take place in that area once a recognition is made of exactly in what way the rocks in that area are magnetic.

A suggestion would be to go and feel that area, your Tehachapi area, your upper North Valley area. All of the rocks that look like they belong in what you would call your southwestern desert look that way for a reason. And they are very highly magnetically charged and connected to many other vortices in and around your western United States. To go and feel those energies out, to become more accustomed to them, to align your energy to them, will make you more susceptible to any interactions that will, shall we say, bleed through into that area in the years to come. Does this help you?

**Asker:** Uh, yes. I'm wondering what purpose the um southwestern stone or rock uh what what is the purpose for it to be there in that way?

**Bashar:** To make a connection specifically to certain other areas. It is an indication that you have literally an outcropping, a projection of other kinds of vortices that normally exist in other places in the world all concentrated in that one area. In a sense it could be said that it was designed to allow the locals to touch base with others at a greater distance. This had great significance to your Native American population in allowing them to remain in touch with each other magnetically, telepathically, even though they ranged across the entire western expanse of your United States at first, allow there to be settlements because of the kind of outcrops that they identified with that were magnetically charged in various places.

**Asker:** You understand? I I didn't quite understand the last thing you said. The idea of having that outcrop there magnetically charged in the way it was allow them to be in touch in various places even though they were not in proximity, even though they were remote from each other. Having a little bit of home in various places of the same configuration and magnetic charging allowed them to be in touch.

**Bashar:** You understand telepathically? Telepathically, through the electromagnetic field that is generated by those rocks. Because the vibration in those rocks is very similar and is synchronized to the vibration in the rocks in many of the southwestern desert areas of your southwestern United States. 

So if you are in that area in a meditational state, you're actually mentally in touch with many of the individuals in a similar state of meditation in those southwestern states. It is like a local office, if you wish to put it that way. 

**Bashar:** Also, also it is one of the primary points, one of the primary areas first touched, first settled by the remnants of Lorean civilizations. 


### Intention and Will

**Asker:** you talked about the spaceship and that the beam of uh light or uh energy that came in from the top was intention. The beam of intention, is there any difference between intention and will?

**Bashar:** No, not really. And when people your intention, your will, they are very much the same thing when they are blended with the understanding of spirit. They are in balance. When you understand that what you call divine will and your own will are one and the same, then you are in balance and integrity. And intention simply then follows that what you desire you do.

**Asker:** And uh do people have many intentions or a main one at a time?

**Bashar:** One at a time. One intention at a time. You are one reality at any moment. Whatever the combination of definitions might be within that reality, it is all one general intention. I've used but you can bring all of those definitions down to a focus so that all of the definitions are one and that there is one with the intention. That is simply the word focus. You understand?

**Asker:** Yes. I've used the word intention to explain uh the uh the way a mother communicates to a child or teaches them a language. The mother intends to communicate, the child intends to learn. Other than that there's no physical mechanism that exists to do that. That it's really the intention is that an in a sense yes.

**Bashar:** Although there is no need to limited to that concept, right. Intention is how you live life and communicate. The idea being as many of you have already pointed out by example that if you truly have the true intention to do something, you simply reach out and do it. You could say in a sense that intention is the reaching out. It is not the contemplation of, as many of you interpret the word intention to mean. It is the doing of the thing. It is the action that supports the desire that supports the will. The intention it is a focus, it is a stream, it is a movement, it is an action. What you intend you do. It is a recognition, a realization, a revelation, and then an action.

**Asker:** Yes. Uh, I'm I guess I'm still trying to connect intention with communication of intention. Uh can people can one read another's intention? Can they feel?

**Bashar:** More often than not you will actually be more clearly able to read another person's intention no matter what it is they may say.

**Asker:** Okay, that's that's what I'm after. Uh intention is the vibration itself of what you're all about. All the combination of definitions that you carry within you and what you do with that.

**Asker:** I've felt uh uh what might be called an autism, an inability to speak uh basically because within whom, within myself.

**Bashar:** Okay, you seem to be doing quite fine now. Basically because it feels like what you're really trying to uh communicate is your intention. But intentions are best communicated by action.

**Asker:** Yes, that is why again you understand it is more clear to watch what people do rather than what they say because what they do is representative of their intention.

**Bashar:** Yes, not what they say. Although you can align what you say with what you do, then you are aligned in spirit and will. But very often you will find that there may be negativity in spirit or negativity in will that will allow your communication to be out of balance with your intention. And fear may be the reason for that imbalance. But the idea again is to pay attention to the intention of the whole vibration of the person of the consciousness. And also one of the easiest ways to do that is to simply see what they do. And one of the easiest ways for you to express intention is to do what you desire to do with integrity.

**Asker:** Can you uh can you not know consciously exactly what your intention is but know it unconsciously?

**Bashar:** An interesting question. Can you not know what your intention is? You can in a few circumstances generate so much fear and doubt that you can block the knowledge or awareness of your intention. However, I will say that 99.9% of the time, even though you may not be willing to admit it or communicate it, you know what your true intention is, even if you doubt your ability to do it.

**Asker:** I see. Does that help you?

**Asker:** Yes it does. I have two uh images that have come to me lately with I would guess uh some meditation. All right, one is called the monk and the other is the lizard pope. These images mean something to me uh and I felt that they were in some way connected to the feeling of autism. Is there anything that you can tell me about those two images?

**Bashar:** Yes. From our perspective, your concept of the lizard pope is a mixture of ancient symbols of wisdom and knowledge and the dispensation of that information to the public. One caught up in a more ancient ritual of direct communication with nature and one intertwined with the concept of religion and separation from nature. The idea of the monk again also is twofold: the idea intertwined with a religious aspect being the suppression and the secreting of knowledge, the hiding away, the cloistering of knowledge. And the other the meditative contemplative version that goes inward to find the true center and source of knowledge so that it can be lived and therefore shared.

Both of these express the polarity of positive and negative with regard to the dispensation of information or the suppression of information, which on some levels is represented by the concept of autism. Which is a highly focused idea in one area and a suppression of information in all other areas. You understand autism in a sense is also very strongly representative for you of the whole concept of intention, because you can say that autistic individuals exhibit an extreme degree of intention in one bandwidth. This can be done along a wider spectrum. All it takes is centering, balancing, love, and complete unconditional self-acknowledgement.

**Asker:** Understand. I I'm trying to understand these concepts. Let it soak in slowly.

**Bashar:** Okay. And is there any other thing that I can do that would be helpful to understand these concepts?


