---
heading: Part 1
title: "The 3 Absolutes"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2015-06-20
icon: Bashar
weight: 1137
showdate: true
tags: ['']
---



### Introduction: The Three Absolutes and Transformation

This transformation is for weeding out from your system all the things that really have nothing to do with the being you prefer to be, with the lifestyle you prefer to have, with the reality that you prefer to create.

As you begin to choose more doing the things that really give you Joy, doing the things that really describe and Define your passion, you find that the universe will also do something in turn. 

Not only will it give you more and more of that reality if you choose that more and more often, but it will make it more and more difficult for you to choose any other reality. 

It will make it more and more difficult for any other reality to work for you.

Those that have moved ahead on this path of choosing what excites you in life, that the things that no longer excite you—the things that you used to do in life, the things that you used to hold on to by playing it safe just in case the thing that you really want to do doesn't work out—no longer work for you anymore. They start to fall apart, start to crumble at your feet.

Because now, more and more in this accelerated age of transformation upon your planet, the more you choose the things that only are representative of who you really are, the more incapable you become of sustaining the things that have nothing to do with you. And therefore, they will no longer work for you.

This is the universe's way of helping you decide which directions are really most representative of your real Joy, your real passion, your true highest self. So you see, in that way, the universe is your friend. 

And may not seem like it at times because it may not seem that it is allowing you any degree of comfort, any degree of security or stability as you have understood those terminologies in the past. 

But believe me, being directed only along the path of choosing the things that are really representative of who you really are is the most stable and secure thing you could possibly really do. It may not feel like it right now in this time of turbulent transformation, but believe me, you will understand in time—if you do not understand it now—that this is really for your benefit. This is the way things work.

The 3 absolutes are what everything in creation is based on.

Many have been taught to believe that there are many rules and regulations that you should follow.
- there are 10 commandments of this
- 10 rules of this 
- 100 laws of this etc.

you are set to the task of memorizing all of these morality issues and ethical issues and religious issues and so forth. And this is all well and good as a style of being.

But in all reality, there really are only 3 absolute laws in creation.

This is the original basis for what some of your religions recognize as the Trinity of existence. 

These three absolutes are the only three principles that are the same for every being everywhere, in every dimension, on every planet, in every existence, no matter where that may be: physical, non-physical, and what have you. It is the only three things that is common to everyone everywhere: you, us, every society you could imagine.


## 1. You exist.

But this also carries profound import for your Society. For understand something about existence: existence has only one quality, only one nature. It exists. 

It does not know how to do anything else. It cannot become anything else. It has never been anything else. Existence has one quality: existence. It has always existed. 

It exists now. 

It always will exist. Because time is subservient to existence; existence is not subservient to time. Time is a creation of the infinite; the infinite is not subject to time. Existence always exists. Therefore, understand the profound implication of this idea: if you exist now, it means you always have and you always will. 

You are Eternal. You are, in that sense, infinite beings, aspects and reflections of all that is, of creation, of the infinite. That which exists cannot become nonexistent. 

Oh yes, it can change. It can transform and become existent in many different ways, all the ways that existence can exist. Yes, you will always change, for change is the only constant. But the idea is that you will never cease to be. You will always understand yourself as a Consciousness. You will always know yourself. You will always be self-aware. For you exist, and therefore that is your state of being. That is your most fundamental quality, your fundamental nature. As we have said many times, there is no need to worry about the idea of that which exists becoming non-existence. Non-existence is its own quality, is its own space as it were. 

There is no room in non-existence for anything new. Non-existence is already full of all the things that will never exist. There is no room for that which exists. One does not become the other. These are completely different ideas. So the first absolute is that you exist. It is your very most fundamental, foundational nature, and it is an eternal one.

## The one is all; the all is one

The implications of this are also profound. For if you understand the true meaning of this, you will understand the holographic, as we say, structure of existence itself. 

That in every single individual component of the whole is contained all the information, all the knowledge, all the existence of the whole, accessible by every single component. And as a whole idea, all that is, all of creation, knows of itself, is self-aware of itself as a single identity, a single entity. And yet at the same time is aware of itself as the combination of all the components it has created itself to be, which are all of you, all of us, all beings, all realities, all situations, all conditions, all states, all Dimensions. The all is one; the one is all.

In ancient times, you called it a holographic structure as Indra's Net.

Indra's Net was a net made out of many perfect round pearls. And it was understood that each perfect round Pearl, therefore being perfect and round and highly reflective, reflected the image of every other Pearl in the net in its surface. Which means you only had to go to one Pearl to be able to access the knowledge of the total net.

This is the holographic structure as you're now understanding it, as your physicists are now beginning to understand the structure of the universe. It functions this way. 

Each of you, each of us, is a perfect Pearl containing the totality, the knowledge of the whole. And it is simply a matter of how you adjust your frequency, how you adjust your vibration, as to what information you happen to access or pour through yourself at any given moment. In other words, what reality you create at that moment is dependent on your frequency.


## 3. What you put out is what you get back.

Every situation that has ever existed, every reality that exists now, every condition and Circumstance that will ever exist, will always be based on these principles. 

Every other variation, every other subtlety, every manifestation, every methodology, every style of reality, all takes its cue from these three absolutes. And that's all you have to know. And if you remember that and act on these ideas in the ways that we may discuss this evening of your time, then you will understand that your life can be straightforward, very clear, and can be full of joy. And full of the realities and the manifestations and the effects and the conditions and the situations and the people that you prefer it to be full of, rather than situations that you do not prefer.

We are here in many ways discussing these things with your civilization at this time because you have asked us to. Our civilization and many other civilizations that make up what we call the Association of Worlds scan, in a sense telepathically, for invitations from societies who are going through certain Transformations. The invitation came from you several decades ago when you began to explore the concept that your Consciousness is more than just physical reality. You began to realize that you may not be the only beings in creation. When you began to stretch outward with your minds and seek to know how your world fits into the totality of all that is, and how the totality of all that is can manifest itself on your world so that all will experience their connection to the infinite, so that all may benefit and all live lives of joy, peace, Harmony, and constructive creativity. As soon as you began to think of these things, you sent out the invitation to us to communicate with you.

But we cannot interfere with you. 

There are a few societies that have direct interaction with your society, and we may get into understanding why these interactions happen later on this evening of your time, depending upon how the flow of the information goes between us. But all we will say for now, in representing our society—those that are in communication with you now through me as an ambassador, in a sense—we will simply say that we prefer this mode of communication at this time because it allows you to focus on what we have to say and not who is saying it. You have had in your past a history of hanging on to the messenger and throwing the message in the garbage. We do not wish this to happen. We wish you to understand that we are here to help you, to assist you, but only in ways that allow you to understand. You must help yourselves. We do not wish you to come running to us. 

We do not want to run your lives for you. We have our own lives. Thank you very much. We are very busy. But the idea is that we do wish to play with you as equals. 

We do wish to expand our notion of our relationship to all that is. And in interacting with you, you give us the opportunity to experience the gift of your perspective, the gift of seeing through you that many more ways that all that is has of expressing itself within the creation that it is. And this expands our understanding of the ways that all that is can manifest itself.


## Questions

### Transition, Fear, and Excitement

**Sharing:** you mentioned that we made it to 1992 

yes and many people here have go through this transition process at times feeling uncomfortable yes now the question is do does this transition process always entertain the idea of a balance between love and fear is there in other words a transition level where it's more ecstasy and less of the uncomfortable transition

**Bashar:** yes because you see what you are going through right now is a transition that involves the idea of ceasing to resist your natural selves for thousands upon thousands of years you have as a society collectively been taught to believe in limitation segregation separation and so forth all of these things have set up patterns of fear patterns of resistance within you this now being the collective transformational age upon your planet the first step in this transformation is to allow yourselves to reintegrate all of the pieces that you have fragmented yourselves into and in doing this you must overcome the resistance that is set up in your minds resistance that is set up in your minds in your consciousness say through the belief systems that you have been brought up to believe in and this resistance to your natural selves to your integrated C is what is causing the discomfort at this time because it is a type of friction in a sense when you have a notion of yourself as operating on a low frequency and you think what you are attempting to do is elevate your frequency to a higher frequency you are in that notion from that point of view creating a dichotomy a difference in value between the frequency you think you are and the frequency you think you want to be by creating a difference in value between those two frequencies with your belief system then you create friction because where you have one frequency and a different frequency there is in a sense friction between the two when you finally do synchronize the idea of who you really are and live as a more integrated being then you will cease to feel the friction because there will not be so much difference between the idea of your present and who you wish wish to be in your so-called future you will become the future you now and in so doing you will find therefore that any transformation from that point forward will be one that can be experienced in ecstasy rather than the discomfort that comes from the friction that now exists from the resistance to the natural self because of fear of facing those elements of yourself that you have separated from yourself you understand does that answer the question specifically enough is there some other direction you wish to take this or is that SA factory

**Sharing:** are we talking about lifetimes

**Bashar:** this is the transformational life upon your planet now it can be done in this lifetime that's why you're all examining these kinds of Concepts now you have played out the idea of limitation and forgetfulness for many thousands of years many hundreds of lifetimes now you have played out just about every negative scenario you can possibly think of and therefore that's why you're beginning to say h maybe there's another way now you're beginning to really consider on mass that there might be a more positive way to do things and that's why this is the transformational lifetime in so being the transformational lifetime you can by definition therefore do it in one lifetime it has taken many hundreds of lifetimes up to this point but we have an analogy that may paint a better picture of this idea we're call the rubber band analogy if you have had a rubber band and you have pulled that rubber band very very far back into negative reality well do understand something the farther back you pull that rubber band when you finally decide to let it go it will snap that much faster onto the positive side so when you finally make the decision to move in a positive direction and put your energy in that direction then you can do it relatively rapidly because you see it is representative of limitation and segregation and separation that things take a lot of time but when you start to integrate you bring yourself holistically in connection with all that is and therefore you eliminate time altogether you live in the now and therefore things can happen in the twinkling of an eye as you say and therefore it can happen in a lifetime you understand does that answer your question

**Sharing:** yes now you say you come from a physical extraterrestrial reality yes okay as you would understand physicality you would experience us as a little bit more ethereal than you but to us it is a solid physical reality we would consider just to give a label to these things that your reality is in third density dimensionality ours is in fourth density dimensionality so we are a little bit more etherealized than your physical reality etherealized than your physical reality but if you made the switch to our Dimension you would perceive us as physical beings with bodies and such yes what are the similarity physically I mean do you guys make movies

**Bashar:** no you make movies about us but we do not make movies about you however we do tell stories about you the idea however is that we are in your terminology not too dissimilar you would call us humanoid I might call you ID essani being the ancient name for my civilization but the idea is that we are bipedal we are approximately 5 ft of your height in counting white whsh gray skin coloration very wide upturned eyes you would recognize us as similar to your species in many qus we live now in a synchronistic manner that allows us to experience constant positive mity we have many art form films just don't happen to be one of them does that answer your question

**Sharing:** thank you thank you very much good day to much good day to you thank

***

### Conversation 2: Harmonic Sound and Frequencies

**Sharing:** I am currently building musical instruments that translate the energy of the Wind on the earth into harmonic sound how exciting could you comment on the use of of this typee of harmonic sound in the process of of Reawakening and integrating um these energies that are are being um uh that we're exposed to on the planet at this time yes and what frequencies that you you would see are are more help us to realign to

**Bashar:** all right first of all obviously intuitively you understand that there are harmonics that allow allow individuals when exposed to those fields of energy to feel more aligned with all that is you must understand something about the nature of the electromagnetic energy that permeates your physical reality there are different pulsations that take place within this electromagnetic field that if you research them you can find will allow you to create harmonics and frequencies within your m music that will allow people to feel very much more aligned with their natural selves your classical composers understood this intuitively y mathematicians understand some of this idea and Architects Express this in the term called the Golden proportions music analogies to this have occurred many many times and when you know that you hear a piece of music and feel a especially moved that you are standing in a sense immersed and in the presence of such a type of harmonic feel your Earth vibration is approximately 7 and 1/2 cycles per second and you can find the frequency of any Planet by taking the measurement of its circumference in whatever measurement you choose to use in this case perhaps miles in your case and you can divide that circumference into the speed of light and that will give you the frequency of any particular body body in space you understand yes then if you will Avail yourself of understanding also the following frequencies you can create certain patterns of harmonics that will have very profound effects upon physical beings in your particular dimension of experience as we have already mentioned seven and 1/2 cycles per second this is an approximation if you will divide the circumference of your planet into the speed of light you will get the absolute value of this particular measurement Beyond this you will also want to understand that 23 cycles per second is also a fundamental frequency that will give you certain kinds of overlapping harmonics that have to do with the number five which is the number of humanity this also will create starlike patterns experiment with the whole concept of standing wave phenomen and realize how certain geometric forms are created by certain harmonic frequencies especially if you can create harmonic frequencies that exemplify the tetrahedral structure tetrahedrons and spiral structures are the two most powerful structures that could be represented in any harmonic that you could create that will have the most profound impact upon the human PS do you understand

**Sharing:** yes I do does this help answer your question so far

**Bashar:** yes now you can also understand something else if you wish to go up into the electronic scales 333,000 cycles per second is the 333,000 cycles per second is the threshold frequency between your physical reality and non-physical reality if you've being experimenting with that frequency and how that frequency can interact with itself in various ways you will also create actual dimensional windows or gateways or doorways between physical and non-physical reality that will actually allow people to unlock their mentality and have shall we say Visions you understand does this help you

**Sharing:** yes it does is there anything else you wish to discuss about this

**Bashar:** not at this time thank you very much for your interaction next sharing

***

### Conversation 3: Canyon de Chelly, Allies, and Spiders

**Sharing:** hi and good day to you I want to thank you for the preparation that you gave me um last time before going into Canyon de oh right did you have a good time

**Bashar:** yes it was um that preparation by P was definitely yeah help me

**Sharing:** yes did you meet some of the energy that was there waiting for you

**Bashar:** yes and I I wanted you to help me Identify some of them all right maybe maybe not two two wild dogs befriended me before I went down I went down in the middle of the night on the full moon and these two wild dogs came with me and um I expected them to be more allies for me and they ended up getting so spooked that one of them went back and the other one I had to encourage you know like a little child to to come on on yes so um there were three places um there were two passageways through the rock there were totally UNL um but totally had the dog spooked um can you tell me what was going on in those passage was

**Bashar:** understand again that there are many energies that are Quasi plainer and interdimensional that exist in those areas in this way the dogs provided a service of allowing you to externalize your fear rather than feel it within yourself so that you could come to grips with some of that energy do you understand in a sense They carried it away for you kept it outside yourself okay the dog in that sense is the symbol of service and that is the specific service they provided for you in that sense at that time by having gone into that defile that crass that separation in the earth you could have begun and can begin and will begin the beginnings of true initiation for then when you face the darkest fears in what you might call the abyss you will find that you have the ability to turn that around you'll find many other allies in that Darkness but first they will appear dark but you must see beyond that in a new way with new eyes new light there is one in that crass which can be a very strong Ally and it would be called a spider form the spider form can take you many places if if you will but focus upon the concept of that spidal form you do not necessarily even have to physiologically ever see this entity but if you associate in that way with the spider forarm it can access many routes many dimensions many gates for you but it will be something again as we have said that once you begin it will be very difficult to go back on understand that this is a direct analogy to the Orca energy the black and white the samurai energy the kacina energy the warrior energy the sorcerer energy you are dealing now with things in that sense that are very powerful Gates very powerful doors and you have begun to use allies in the form of the dogs to help you know that you have stability and that you do not have to fear that you will be given back the opportunity to process your fear a little bit at a time as you coax the child out of yourself and blend the magical child into the Forefront let that take the Forefront so that you will see what is in the crass with wonderment instead of fear and then you will see with a new light a new light will be there you will start to see in different frequencies different bandwidths and a different kind of Illumination will be there for you it will be a little bit of a blue green illumination you understand

**Sharing:** mhm that's good um what ended up happening was um it was a full moon and um so there's plenty of light and I hadn't been down there before so I didn't really know my way um the bulb went on my flashlight storm came in clouded out the moon um I mean it's very freaky and also but you know at storm very exciting it actually was I powerful I went from incredibly intense fear to incredible excitement yes um same thing remember fear and excitement same energy one in doubt one in Joy so um I definitely found the spiders when I got to um the White House Ruins finally after being lost for about 3 or 4 hours you not lost yes this is true I realized that after after I spent 3 hours feeling L um but in the room um I was brushing away a cobweb and um going through a doorway and found a really big black widow spider yes and then found that those black we on every almost every doorway in the ruins yes um and it seemed very clear that they weren't just spiders and so I I wondered I well you've answered the question in part yes um but it definitely seemed that they were beyond the Navajo medicine also um didn't see had anything to do with the Navajo

**Bashar:** it has to do with many different Expressions that have been expressed by many of the various tribes of what you would call Native American cultures in your Society each of them has a different way of interpreting this notion all together they have the whole picture and then of course the whole picture is then something beyond that but not each one has the whole picture nor chooses to express the whole picture MH you yourself in traveling from understanding to understanding build the picture within you and then at a certain critic Mass you tip over the threshold into a different level of understanding and recognition of what they are as gateways as doorways as opportunities MH great thank you

**Sharing:** um I also wanted to ask you about the SAS and seeing that you're an offing between the humans and the Zas and we haven't heard very much recently I don't think about the Zas um I wanted to ask you what you'll be hearing more in 93 in '93

**Bashar:** yes and don't believe everything that you hear okay

**Sharing:** does that apply to the um the fact of the base at Dy being Neutron by the American Military

**Bashar:** it will apply to any story that you would call a scare tactic story take it with a pound and a half of salt

**Sharing:** so so has the crossbreeding happened or is it

**Bashar:** there is crossbreeding we will not go into further detail about the various methodologies now at this time okay thanks P thank you very much next triadin and is if you please remain standing while right Kiki and Alan Alan yeah Casey hased hello B and good day to you

***

### Conversation 4: Ego, Unconscious, and Archetypes

**Sharing:** um I'm student of uh young and I was just wondering what you would like to comment about the ego and the conscious or the unconscious in the collective all right thank you very much

**Bashar:** understand first of all that the fundamental job definition of the ego is to Simply keep you focused as a Consciousness in physical reality that's its real fundamental job the idea of ego in a sense is simply the physiological version of self identity becomes negative ego when it is out of balance with the total whole part of the reason why the ego can in a sense switch into negative reality and become out of balance is because you have as a species fragmented and fractured your Consciousness into an outer Consciousness an unconsciousness a subconsciousness and so forth all of these ideas now are beginning to reblend back into one understanding of Consciousness and immediate now Consciousness that knows what it needs to know when it needs to know it the idea of the unconscious has been a convenient Storehouse to allow you to understand that you have a tap into knowing this when you need it but the unconscious for your species has become a repository of fears and doubts and guilts and then allows itself to sink even deeper into a subconscious self the idea has come from the notion that when you felt the first degree of separation from all that is when you began to feel as a species disconnected from your source of power of self-empowerment you began to fragment and fracture in various ways you began to Anchor yourselves into the only thing you could think of the only thing you could perceive which was physical reality and in anchoring yourself in that way you began to establish automatic mechanisms that would allow you not to have to fear every moment that you would Cease to Exist by being cut off you began to establish Roots into physical reality you began to translate knowingness into beliefs into mentality into all these ideas that are in a sense artificial projections of true conscious knowingness so you created a support system that would allow you to function as a physical being in fear but now because you have played through the concept pretty much of fear you are beginning to reestablish your connection to all that is and therefore you can establish an expression of Consciousness in knowing this rather than in a fragmented form which is simply a maintenance mechanism to allow you to function as detached beings from your Source you understand

**Sharing:** yes um could you comment then on the um idea of archetypes

**Bashar:** yes archetypes are primarily independent as y understood autonomous consciousnesses that are the product of the collective consciousness of your entire society as it manifests in any particular symbolic form or reflection to itself in other words the colle consciousness of your Society groups together to form a larger Consciousness which becomes autonomous and independent and therefore reflective independent and therefore reflective back to you of a specific aspect of the personality of the collective whole you understand

**Sharing:** yes does that answer your question specifically morally all right do you wish to pursue this further along some particular Avenue

**Sharing:** no that's fine thank you very to [Music] much draw another name is Genie yourie next yourie next Sher um thank you for being here well thank you for being there I me it's like a bridge to unlimited Consciousness because um what I'm seeing is this real struggle between people who want to hold on to limitation includ myself those that are um open to anything new and interesting and when I when I encounter the limitation it's it's very frustrating and um yes and I don't know how to handle that encoun

***

### Conversation 5: Trust, Doubt, and Creating Reality

**Bashar:** all right but realize that it is not really a matter of really wanting to hold on to limitation as much as it is simply fearing what it is you will encounter when you let go the idea is to begin to really understand the true definition and the nature of trust and the true definition in the nature of what it is you will discover when you let go of the limitation first of all you must understand that you do create your reality do you understand that

**Sharing:** yeah I mean I've heard that oh oh I've heard that oh I I heard this R going around that we create our reality

**Bashar:** no I believe it all right all right convinced I understand I understand however the only reason that we brought this up is to allow you to perceive that in creating your reality in being completely responsible for everything you responsible for everything you experience in your Reality by attracting it with your strongest beliefs then you can realize that your reality what you perceive as your physical reality is actually made of you made of your Consciousness it is a reflection of you in a particular State a particular format even your physicists are now beginning to understand this that there is no distinction and no differentiation between the Observer and The observed they are one and the same unbroken whole thing like me and you yes we are one thing we are different reflections of the the same one thing the same one Consciousness so in a sense you could say I am talking to yourself you are talking to yourself we are both crazy one minute one minute the idea therefore is to understand that if your reality is made of you the only thing you could possibly ever discover in the unknown is more of yourself so therefore fundamentally speaking there's really nothing to fear because it will always only be more of you and if it's more of you you will in some way shape or form be able to figure out a way with your imagination to come to terms with it the idea of the fear simply stems from this original concept that it existed in your society that you are a victim of and exist separately in existence that it is somehow separate from you that you are separate from it and therefore you are not in control you are always in control even when you're creating a scenario that makes it seem as if you're out of control you're controlling that you're still in control the idea is whether you create the reality through fear or create the reality through excitement and again this brings us back to the issue of trust and the redefining of this term in your society which may be of assistance to you and many individuals many of you understand fundamentally that in order to have the reality you prefer it takes 100% trust and when we talk about the issue or you hear about the issue of having to have 100% trust to create that reality you prefer you collectively groan and start to moan and say everyone knows how difficult it is to have 100% trust all the time that's a very difficult thing there is always some doubt some small percentage of doubt that Creeps in from somewhere I don't know where but it comes in you have to be a saint you have to be a superwoman Superman in order to have 100% % trust all the time it's nearly impossible well with beliefs like that I can see how that might be so but you see it's even simpler than that much much much much much simpler than that because simply the only reason it seems to be that way in your world is because you have taken the word doubt and you have said doubt is defined as a lack of trust but it isn't doubt is not a lack of trust what is it I'll tell you doubt is a 100% trust in a reality you don't prefer period so the idea is not to have to learn how to create 100% trust you're doing it all the time automatically second nature you don't know how to stop trusting you create your reality with your trust every single second it is the mechanism of your godhood goddess Hood all that is Hood trust you trust in something all the time positive negative doesn't matter you trust something will happen all the time so the idea is that you don't have to see it as the difficult process of having to learn how to trust but simply the process of Shifting the direction of the 100% trust you already have into a definition that you prefer to focus your trust in and then get the result of having put your focus on that new definition that new belief of the reality you say is the true reality for you instead of the realities or definitions or beliefs that you may have been brought up with that no longer work for you and maybe never did so the idea of going forward without fear is to recognize also the following thing fear itself will never never never stop you from doing anything never what stops you is being afraid to be afraid that's what stops you being afraid of the fear not the fear itself fear is a strong energy fear many times can get people to do many things and sometimes because you have created a society that acts and functions in denial where it is afraid to look at certain things sometimes fear is the only way that you will excuse the expression get up off your rear end and do something with your life and move ahead fear sometimes can be a driver if you won't allow ecstasy to be fear will do you're very clever people you'll get around that block somehow sometimes you have to scare yourself to do something if you will not allow yourself to do it out of Joy or don't believe you can however once you allow yourself to let it be all right to feel anything including fear that decision itself automatically transforms the fear into something else something that you can handle something that may even become surprise surprise curiosity imagination and excitement and joy and passion very often therefore you can understand that the thing that you fear the most is actually the thing you ought to be doing the most and you can understand therefore again that that's because fear and excitement are the same energy but you experience it as excitement when you use your trust in the direction you prefer to you experience it as fear when you use trust as doubt when you do not feel worthwh when you do not feel worthy when you feel disconnected from all that is when you do not feel self-empowered when you feel guilty which by the way is the true opposite of Love guilt guilt guilt guilt guilt gives it all up so the idea is to let go of the notion that you shouldn't be afraid to Simply if you find yourself being afraid dive into it find out what kind of a belief you would have to have in yourself that would generate the energy to translate as fear instead of excitement and when you find out what that energy is what that definition is you'll be using your imagination and your curiosity as the tools they were designed to be and then you will automatically find that you'll become absorb in the process to the point where you'll probably no longer feel it as fear you understand

**Sharing:** yeah I mean that was yeah I mean that was a side topic oh what no I'm glad you said that oh thank you very much um what is your main topic

**Sharing:** no that it's just going Beyond um my encounters with limitations but I mean that's happening and and and you kind of explained that but I want to know how long this transition period is going to last you mean for the planet as a whole plan

**Bashar:** yes approximately approximately in the way you mean it in the way it is manifesting now approximately 50 more years however in and around your year of 2011 2013 will be one of the strongest and most apparent shifts in the transformation where your planet will finally as we read your energy now lay down the foundations for World unification but it will still take some time for everyone to get used to that idea but in and around what you call the next five decades you will have completely as we perceive your energy now completely synchronized the energy of your Society with the energy of the various societies that we are already interacting with and will become a member of the universal Community we recognize as the association of worlds and we shift physical density yes and you're doing so right now but again remember this may not necessarily always simply perceive itself to be that you wake up one morning and oh all of a sudden you can see through your hand or something no you are shifting right now you are different in density in frequency in vibration than you were as a society 50 years ago profoundly different profoundly different and now the time is accelerated you do not have much time left for some of the major compon components of the shift in and around again your year of 93 95 and 97 you will find major shifts taking place in your Society you're already beginning to see them who would have thought that some of the things occurring in your Society now in a matter of days could ever have occurred let alone taking days as opposed to years in your Society you will see only more acceleration in the coming years before your year of 2000 and again 97 will be one of the most profound shifts and again 2011 2013 these are all landmarks on the road of the shift that you're all going through and the ascendancy of the frequency of your total vibration as a society Does this answer your question

**Sharing:** yes thanks thank you very much thank you and sh

***

### Conversation 6: Public Speaking and Words vs. Actions

**Sharing:** I'm here because I'm terrified of speaking in front of groups

**Bashar:** oh all right well you have already succeeded with that first sentence that's over and done with how do you feel

**Sharing:** uh my heart is is about 150

**Bashar:** how very exciting um actually I'm starting to enjoy my life more and more all the time

**Sharing:** oh thank you and I'm not exactly sure what to ask because

**Bashar:** well you don't have to ask anything you can make a statement if you wish we prefer it really

**Sharing:** yes well it's just a it really is becoming more and more a pleasure

**Bashar:** well thank you and what is it that you do in life that allows you to feel this pleasure share with us how you express your facet of infinity just one way we'll do

**Sharing:** well I'm fascinated with words and the way in which taking them apart and turning them frontwards and backwards and finding in word meanings within them makes me feel like some of uh the mystery of life has really been buried in our language and that is coming back

**Bashar:** true yes do understand something at this time while it was true at one time and can be true again through Endeavors such as what you have just explained right now in your Society words are really not a form of communication actions are but not words words at this time are not aligned with action very often in your Society therefore understand that this is because words are simply outer symbols and that the idea is that you give the meanings to the words they do not have their own built-in meaning you give the meaning to situations they do not have their own built-in meaning you assign meaning to them but the action the actions that people do are the direct communication are the real words no matter what they say what they do is what they're actually saying in your Society now what you are doing and what needs to now what you are doing and what needs to be done as you are beginning to explore is to allow yourself to come up with forms of communication that are more easily in alignment with action where less confusion and misunderstanding and misinterpretation will occur this can be a very exciting Endeavor and you can find ways to use words and vibration to get the point across to allow your intentions and your actions to be one and by all means therefore continue to explore that idea if that is what gives you Joy but recognize that ultimately what you will be doing in the exploration of rearranging the words that you have created is the elimination of the words all together and simply allowing yourself to begin to render your Communication in vibrational tone and action and then eventually in action alone you understand

**Sharing:** I'll play with it if you do not understand we can discuss this further if you wish

**Sharing:** okay what you've said is related somehow to to a question I might have posed to you about translating the uh mental energy into the physical reality

**Bashar:** yes but you see mental energy is the physical manifestation is the physical transl already of nonphysical Consciousness

**Sharing:** so then what's the difference between mental energy and thinking in terms of words

**Bashar:** not much it is electromagnetic patterns that are the physical representation of vibrations in non-physical Consciousness

**Sharing:** oh I missed that

**Bashar:** all right you are fundamentally to use your language colloquially you are fundamentally a nonphysical Consciousness you understand that is your quote unquote true nature a non-physical being so to speak however the idea of translating yourself into or more precisely translating yourself as physical reality means you have to create an analogy for the vibrations that exist within your non-physical Consciousness this analogy in physical terms is what you call mentality and it is your non-physical Consciousness interacting as an electromagnetic field with itself and this electromagnetic field gives rise to what is called mind you understand

**Sharing:** I'm getting closer

**Bashar:** all right all we are saying is that what you are calling mentality already is the physical translation it is not a matter of mental how does mentality translate into physical reality what you call mentality already is the physical translation mentality is only a physical phenomena awareness knowingness Consciousness doesn't have to be physical it is primarily non-physical when Consciousness decides to express itself as a physical reality this is expressed through the opes of the phenomena you call mentality or thinking in the way you understand it thought patterns words communication in the electromagnetic spectrum or vibrational scale you understand all right look at it this way as a non-physical being in order to express yourself as a physical being you create what is called an electronic Matrix the colloquial term for this is a brain your brain is an electronic Matrix an electromagnetic Matrix this electromagnetic Matrix as it interacts with itself creates what you call the Mind mental ity electromagnetic frequencies that translate the vibration of non-physical Consciousness into the vibrations of physical communication you call words make sense

**Sharing:** yes no maybe thank you does that clarify what we are saying

**Bashar:** it helps

**Sharing:** it helps all right does it help in terms of applying it to what you want to understand is it sufficient for now or is there something else that needs clarifying

**Bashar:** let me give you another analogy if I may what you are experiencing right now right now is a similar type of translation understand this I am not there on your planet I am not speaking your language I don't know your language the channel is programmed with the language you call English that's what he was brought up to understand I am sending thought impulses there is a telepathic linkage my frequency the channels frequency interlock as we become one vibration my frequency transliterates into his vibrational frequency and his Consciousness translates my vibrations into the form you understand as language I am not speaking anything at all I am only in a sense sending pulses of Consciousness which translate into your physical reality as a vibration that is modulated and called language it is similar to the idea you have in your world called a telephone you know that the voice you hear in your end of the phone is not the original voice it has been rendered into Electronic media and then rendered into acoustic media so you can hear it it's not the original voice what you're hearing now is not my voice in that sense nor even the idea of words at all coming from me except as this is how it has to translate into your reality for you to understand the vibration you understand does that help

**Sharing:** it help well thank you very much inter Barb Howard is is and Jackie it's either Walkers or wallet so bar please go up microphone microphone thir sand here Jackie you're Jackie okay all right hello B and good day to you

***

### Conversation 7: Following Excitement and The Templar

**Sharing:** I want you to know that I'm tickled to my threedimensional toes that you're here

**Bashar:** oh all right thank you very much

**Sharing:** I've enjoyed you so much over the last four years and I'm following my excitement

**Bashar:** oh thank you and it's how far ahead of you is it or are you doing your excitement

**Sharing:** no I am doing my thank you very much and at every moment actually thank you very much sleeping when I'm tired and eating when I'm hungry and oh thank you and and it's very it's a very interesting experiment in synchronicity yes because my life in being natural yes instead of being [Music] normal and I and I have everything I need

**Bashar:** yes do you have everything you want

**Sharing:** almost no I don't actually but I'm working on there

**Bashar:** yes by following your excitement quote unquote you will when you do your excitement get it good good t i perhaps have to do my excitement more passion

**Bashar:** yes um and perhaps simply allow your imagination to bring to you or to create from scratch the opportunities that you may not right now be seeing okay that you could be acting remember that when you get to a certain point it is not so much a matter of attracting the opportunities in your life that will allow you to create what you want but it becomes a matter of taking full responsibility and actually creating the opportunities where none existed before by matching things to other things that here to for were not seen to have connections and you making the connections yourself in The Crucible of your imagination

**Sharing:** yes well I believe that I'm I'm doing that no right and um and I feel like I'm in a very whole being State my dream reality and my waking reality is becoming the lines are becoming fuzzier

**Bashar:** oh thank you very much and much to the consternation of my relatives and friends sometimes

**Sharing:** that's all right it's your reality not there

**Bashar:** I know I know exactly and it's fun

**Sharing:** yes thank you um and part of my excitement is leading me to um an area in the southwest where the Templar what what we're calling the Templar is going to be built

**Bashar:** yes understood

**Sharing:** uh and I would like to ask you to speak a little bit about the Templar oh all right thank you very much bu in particular would you speak to me about lady NADA who work who is going to work in one of the chambers here I'm told us a guide of mine

**Bashar:** all right thank you very much the idea of the Templar is a recognition a Reawakening that there is in a sense a grid a template a pattern of energy waves upon your planet that represent a certain frequency that is the frequency of superconductivity of alignment of synchronicity of activation of initiation of ascendency of transformation it is similar to what was being discussed before it is the prime harmonic that when you fall into flow with it will allow all things to move more smoothly if you fall into flow with it do not carry excess baggage with you into it that would cause resistance and friction this Prime harmonic energy grid can be Amplified or shall we say transliterated from non-physical into electromagnetic into physical reality through the creation of physical objects of certain geometric properties which will amplify those electromagnetic pulses when placed on the grid points these are the ideas of the pyramidal Templars you understand

**Sharing:** yes I do yes when the these devices when these structures are created to physically represent and act as lenses in a sense represent and act as lenses in a sense amplifying lenses focusing lenses for that electromagnetic pulse when enough of them are built and therefore enough connection exists between the various points at which these pulses exist upon your planet then the grid will be activated we'll create a Next Generation next level of interconn connectedness and when an initiate so to speak is then ensconced within the interior Chambers this brings in the concept of the NADA guide then they will be assisted in guide then they will be assisted in learning how to align with that energy so that they can allow themselves to become far more telepathic tele empathic more precisely put with all other beings upon the planet with nature itself the first and most profound impact the the first and most profound impact the first and most profound effect of being initiated in those inner Chambers when the grid is activated will be that you will see you will have more direct understanding more direct tele empathic communication with all beings in nature Rock plant animal and human situation all being and of course all that is you will elevate your frequency it is like getting what you would call a jump start you understand yes it will increase the accelerative magnitude of the collective whole where you can even begin and this is another manifestation some of you will begin to see once these Templar units are created you will even begin to begin to physically materialize once again as you did in the past archetypal beings they will be able to begin to express themselves to some degree of physical materialization because because you will have finally created an etheric envelope around your planet that will be more akin to the type of energy soup they are used to existing in and therefore you will be able to begin to see them this is much much much much much in the way of being similar to the concept of what the Native Americans call the manifestation of Katrina beings you understand

**Sharing:** yeah this will begin to happen more often and you will begin to see things does this does this mean that things does this does this mean that Davis will take physical form rather than the the energy that I see at this point

**Bashar:** they will begin to wrap themselves in a thin physiological etheric blanket and begin to take some degree of more physical interactive form yes at the same time recognize you will also be becoming more etheric more malleable your reality will then at that point have almost no separation between non-physical and physical dream and awake you understand

**Sharing:** I do I I think I'm having a sense of that now

**Bashar:** yes you are beginning to that's why you are fuz me for um and sometimes I don't know where I am

**Sharing:** that's all right you're always here and now here now but here and now is also there and now and it is here and now here and now yes there is always here it is simply another perspective of the here there is an arbit tur

**Bashar:** yes well in terms of density and dimension that's becoming very fluid for me

**Sharing:** yes that's what fourth density is all about being more fluid well but I also feel like I'm going to pass out a lot

**Bashar:** that's all right you'll get the hang of it fall into a I really I if you fall into a puddle of water take a drink

**Sharing:** okay the that's in my dreams of falling into a puddle of water but yes but you jumping into life but at this point you are still on the surface you have and this should excite you to discover great depths yet and you are moving in that direction and once you go below the surface it will no longer be a puddle it will start to become a pool and then a lake and then an ocean all right all right may I ask just one quick thing I don't mean to be greedy here B how can I um get down to the bottom of the ocean quickly

**Bashar:** by asking your guides for help in dream time you will receive the help you will receive the help feel the energy feel the energy in you that would represent to you in your imagination the concept of the depths that you wish to go to feel that energy as you drift off to sleep ask for assistance you will get it but only as much as you can handle trust the timing of this it's it is critical trust the timing do not be impatient for time trust the timing

**Sharing:** all right yes pleasant dreams [Laughter] fuzzy oh yes you [Music] will and good day to you hello hello hello hello this is a very confused human

**Bashar:** thank you very much how exciting if being here now yes has no bearing on the past which is one of the theories

**Sharing:** no no no no no you have it backwards the past has no bearing on being here now

**Bashar:** that's correct tell me about it you mean we don't look backwards we don't grow on what we know from before

**Sharing:** yes yes you can but you do not need to create what we would call an effective attachment to the things you have been because this is what many of you do some of you may in a sense learn from the past that is true what you have been can always be learned from you can always grow from that but what many of you also do is you retain a sense of attachment to the concept of what you have been rather than simply allowing yourself to truly become the new idea that you have learned you can be from your past experience you do not completely detach from that concept once you have learned what you can be and therefore you create repetitive patterns in your life that you don't know how to break from the concept is to realize that you from the concept is to realize that you take what you have done cherish it learn from it Grow from it but when you decide in what way you wish to change in what way the growth should be representative then understand that at that moment you are a completely new being who no longer has any experiential attachment to the concept of the past or the past no longer has any experiential effect on who you are in the present you can learn from it without the past having any effect on what you're capable of doing here and now you understand

**Sharing:** I do and I thank you thank you very much for allowing us to reflect the clarity that you already possess greetings my brother and to you most joyous good day

***

### Conversation 8: Planetary Destruction and Free Will

**Sharing:** I want to know why the planetary commission is allowing the destruction of this planet how can anything else be done when it belongs to you

**Bashar:** understand again what we allow what is allowed what is not allowed these issues of allowance are really quite different than the way most people on your planet understand it what we are allowing you to be is who you really prefer to be we are allowing you to bring all these issues of negativity bubbling up to the surface of your being that your species has held down for so long so that you can decide as your own planetary commission whether or not you wish these realities of negativity to continue or in having brought them into the light whether you wish to redefine and change the reality of Your World which is the only decision that you need to make in order to allow us to finally interact with you as equals but you see we cannot in any way shape or form interfere with what you decide will happen on your planet it's your planet it belongs to you we cannot in that sense intervene except in a few very specific instances where if you were allowed to take things Beyond a certain point it would affect more than just your world that cannot be allowed by us but everything else can be it is your planet and if you really decide you want to destroy it we have to let you do so why because that's how much we really do love you we love you enough to let you run your own life think about that even if it means choosing destruction we know that you are really Eternal beings we know that you will never really be destroyed but if you feel the only way to learn your lessons is to physiologically wipe yourselves out we have to love you enough to let you learn that lesson we're doing all we can to let you know in no uncertain terms that you do not have to do it that way you do not have to do it that way you can experience absolute ecstasy and joy we are spreading whatever information is in our domain to spread but we cannot take the responsibility from your hands it can't be done because if it was then we would be absolutely devaluing your self-empowerment your own godhood your own ability to create your reality and that we will never do to you do you understand so as an individual I am supposed to go with the tithe

**Bashar:** you are supposed to take responsibility to create those changes and feel those changes and experience those changes in the way that you prefer to and to help assist all other be planet to know that they can also experience the changes in a positive way if they choose to but you can't force anyone to choose that path you just can't in a sense it would be paradoxical if you tried to because if you begin to force any anyone to see a particular point of view then you are negating them as a being and that's only reinforcing the negativity that they're already in the habit of perpetuating so you see that's why we don't do that because we do not want to reinforce the negativity that already exists on your planet the only way to do it is to allow you to hear that it is possible to do it in a loving way it doesn't mean that you have to go with the tide and accept the idea of the negativity on your planet it means you look at the negativity that is there and you can reflect to those people that there is another way but you can't force them to take it otherwise you're countermanding your own desire because anytime you use Force even for what you might think is a good cause you have negated the whole effect because you see there is no separation between the end and the means the end is the means the means is the end the way you go about it is the reality people will choose what they feel they can choose but you can be of assistance you can show people there are other ways by being a shining example of creating your life to be a life of Joy by doing what gives you passion and joy you then show them look at that man look at that person if he can do it I can do it that's how you teach be the example all it takes is one person to change the whole world but you change the world by being the world you would like them to know they can be not by showing them that they must choose it by being that world they will see in no uncertain terms that that can exist for them too that's how they change that's how they will choose to want to change does that help clarify the issue

**Sharing:** yes thank you thank you very much is there anything else

**Bashar:** no thank you our unconditional love to you [Music] sure this time like break all right you may all enjoy a short break we will resume contact in approximately 15 of your minutes of C [Applause] are you having a good time

**Sharing:** yes thanks getting better better fabulous we have some [Laughter] more a little say continue with sharing h and good day to you it's so wonderful to be here again in your presence and in daryls I want to mostly express my heartfelt love and thanks to Daryl and to you for bringing all of our wonderful information our love to you as and it seems like I don't really have a question because it congratulations every time I get a question I wait for a few minutes and the answer come congratulations again within every question the answer is contained of course if you did not have the information to begin with you would not have been able to conceive of asking the question that um the other thing I want to say is that I have getting some fantastic help from a lot of people you helped me so much back in California about fears and everything and one of the things I got just the other day was uh there always be in the now and whatever I fear will appear so that means that I should look forward with excitement to

**Bashar:** yes to confronting it

**Sharing:** yes to dive into it to explore it in that sense more than confront but I understand what you mean yes right and yes that's right to to take it as my own and to yes take advantage has yes the fact that your fears come up shows you that the mechanism of your creativity is working fine for it shows you the things that you need to look at in order to fulfill the wish that you have of being the true self that you wish to be so those things that crop up in your lives that seem to be at first obstacles or that you have been taught to Define as obstacles they are there not to show you that you're stuck they're there not to show you that you're a bad person they're there not to show you that you don't know what you're doing they're there to show you what you believe so that if you don't prefer it you can change it that's why they're there and so that's why I wanted to come tonight to just express my love and to tell you that I feel so close to you at all times

**Bashar:** we are no distance apart at all

**Sharing:** I know thank you and thank you our love to you as well next Shar hi Bashar and you good day

***

### Conversation 9: Maldek, Pleiadians, and Zetas

**Sharing:** um on this planet in our old Samaran tablets there a story told about a planet in our solar system which is destroyed Mal part of it becomes the asteroid belt according to the tablets part of that planet is what is now Earth

**Bashar:** no no no the idea is that part of that planet's inhabitants is now the inhabitant of Earth reincarnation speaking energetically speaking the mantle has been handed down because the planet destroyed itself then the inhabitants reincarnated both to Earth and Mars Mars also then in that sense became in a condition where it could not support itself the inhabitants continue to reincarnate on Earth and you have inherited the mantle of the energy to finish the cycle of negativity and play it out in a positive way physiologically speaking no you are not a part of the planet that was malde okay that is meant allegorically you understand

**Sharing:** yeah energetically part yes okay um some of the ET groups that are interacting here also interacted there I mean there's there's sort of a continuity of players and all of this

**Bashar:** yes and that's why they're here is because it started there and it was sort of a it started before that but they were involved then and they might as well see it through to the Finish

**Sharing:** yes okay that pertains to the platings yes

**Bashar:** for they are most directly in a sense your cousins from even farther back than mdec this goes all the way back to the Lin systems Orion systems pleadian systems all the way through a long lineage wherein there were split offs in that sense therefore you could say you are the Lost cousins

**Sharing:** were the Zas involved there and Mal

**Bashar:** no no okay does that answer your question

**Sharing:** yeah thank you thank you very much sh next sharing greetings and salutations and to you good day as well what I would I want to thank you for being here because you're kind of like a hope knowing that if Earth and the reticuli be got you then there's definitely hope for earth a shucks tell me how all that came about you mean how it is coming about

**Bashar:** yes thank you we cannot fill in all the details for you for various reasons however understand this the reticulum experience what you call the Zeta experience requires certain balances within its Society your Society requires certain balances as well you have attracted yourselves to each other to fulfill these balances within each other over time as soon as suppression of information and secrecy is no longer the case you can begin to consciously understand what it is they are giving you and you are giving to them thus then the blending can begin to take place consciously and this blending energetically and physiologically in the creation of hybrids between your species and their species has resulted not only in our civilization but a few other civiliz I that interact with you in various ways from various points in time and space this is now ongoing has been ongoing in your Society for a while and has accelerated within the last four Decades of time as you count time and will accelerate even further there again may be more information that will come out over the next decade of time most of this will be understood Again by your year 2011 2013 and the secrecy will have been obliterated long before that before 1998 but this is an ongoing process now 1998 but this is an ongoing process now in what we would consider to be our past for understand we are in a different dimensional plane a more highly accelerated dimensional plane and even though we have in our understanding thousand thousands of years of history in our Society interdimensionally speaking we can interact with you in simultaneous time if you wish to look at this in a linear fashion you could say we are speaking to you from your future time but this does not really correlate directly because we are in a different dimension on a different wavelength a different frequency so for us what is going on on your planet now is history even though we can be contemporary with you if we wish to but in a sense therefore you can understand that you are our ancestors in part and that we are in very real way energetically reincarnation physiologically not across the board in every case but in a large percentage of cases we are in many ways your future selves and your children thank you Mom thank you Dad does that clarify the point you wish to CL thank you very much the next three names are Jo b or B and Laura C and good evening and good day to you

***

### Conversation 10: Disease, AIDS, and Integration

**Sharing:** um since uh we are still working in this physical form yes trying to reach um reaching not trying reaching reaching um to connect with our higher selves

**Bashar:** yes to be your higher selves

**Sharing:** yes okay um do not mean to slap your hand Le I suppose um well that actually hand Le I suppose um well that actually relates to my question thank you um in this learning process in our physical States um yes we're learning from everything we go through um what is the learning or what should um what is the learning or what should we be looking into for learning through um we manifest so many illnesses and this

**Bashar:** yes yes disease disease resistance to the natural self and therefore it is not that you have to create disease but if you do it is a golden opportunity to find mind that you are forced to face issues within yourself that need processing it doesn't mean you have to face them that way but very often when you have cut off a portion of yourself from yourself when you have segregated yourself into different portions and there's no communication between the different portions sometimes it takes something like that to turn your attention in the proper direction so that you will learn what you need to learn once you understand what it is you need to learn you can then be willing to move ahead and learn those things in other ways other than the creation of disease

**Sharing:** is there a methodology uh for looking into

**Bashar:** there are many methodologies as into there are many methodologies as many methodologies as there are people each of you has your own way that works best for you however fundamentally speaking the idea is to remain focused within the energy of unconditional love by actions that are reflective of doing the things that are most representative of your truest self doing the things that excite you the most living your passion staying in that energy will be the best opportunity to bring you focused face to face with the issues that you need to face giving you the opportunity to deal with those issues in the best possible way most positive possible way least resistive possible way and thus giving yourself an opportunity to experience your transformation in Joy rather than in pain you understand

**Sharing:** yes there is a very strong principle in this idea of doing what excites you that vibration of excitement is the vibration of your highest self at any given moment if you act on the thing that excites you the most to the best of your ability staying within the idea of your integrity knowing that you are as powerful as you need to be to create whatever reality you want without having to hurt yourself or anyone else in order to create it you will always face the things you need to face and if you assign to those things that crop up only a posit POS meaning and dive into it wholeheartedly you will only get a positive effect from it and you will move on and accelerate and expand enjoy rather than pain you understand

**Sharing:** yes pain is separation pain is separation Mak sense um further question um there are certain illnesses that almost seem to be Collective of course such as a of course you have many kinds of archetypal manifestation many things that represent symbolically Collective movements in society without going into vast amounts of detail the one that you have specified that you call AIDS is many things but more directly a result of the general lack of willingness in your Society over time to realize the integration of masculine and feminine energy within each and every individual it has started from there and mutated into many different variations of the theme of facing your own physical sexuality and your own energy and the blending of these ideas on many different levels this is of course a very generalized way to look at this but for right now we will not go into greater detail suffice it to say that when you come to terms with the idea of the blending of these energies within yourself and begin to see yourselves as whole beings you will no longer need the manifestation in any way shape or form called disase Thank you thank you it's your planet hello B and to you good day

***

### Conversation 11: Abundance, Performance, and Purpose

**Sharing:** it's uh it's great to actually be here with you I uh have listened to tapes um a long time ago in the east coast so it's wonderful to be with you

**Bashar:** we are Overjoyed to experience your energy and uh what I want to share is the last few days have been so energetic for me

**Sharing:** yes despite what's happening it's like stuff's happening stuff Define stuff well it's like on on paid two days ago um instead of getting my pay I got it like $181 and that's what's going to be my pay for 2 weeks and normally that would be very distressing

**Bashar:** how creative of you to live for two weeks on one bar how creative of you to begin to recognize that abundance doesn't always mean money

**Sharing:** yeah and it's very wonderful that okay this happened and at first like my stomach got really nauseous at the thought that I would have to be doing this and actually it brought incredible joy to me

**Bashar:** thank you and I have no idea why but it did I'll also wager as you say that it brought an incredible amount of creativity to you as well

**Sharing:** yeah and since that and the day it happened was this incredible day and all these wonderful people were coming into my life and I was having this great day and then this bombshell thing like the check happened and it was kind of like oh okay there's this like check thing going on and um and it's like since then like like I'm meeting all these people that I know I know it's like I know I know so many of you from somewhere it's very clear to me and actually if I'm going to have a question to you maybe it's like who are we like an energy

**Bashar:** you are a family in a sense a psychic family so to speak an energy family a group of assistive friends as you have pointed out many of you form these relationships dance in and out of them Twirl in and out of them help each other in various lives recognize each other in various lives reflect things to each other that you need to learn about yourselves in various lives you revolve and orbit around each other like a family from Lifetime to Lifetime playing different roles being different things to each other different times so to speak mhm remember also that that was a golden opportunity a golden opportunity to opportunity a golden opportunity to redefine the concept of what it is that you really need and what it is that you really want

**Sharing:** that's very true I feel much more want that's very true I feel much more prosperous yes having not receiving my paycheck

**Bashar:** the idea is to recognize that when you operate on a certain level moving in the direction of the things that really excite you then your abundance in all forms will only be representative of exactly the level you are expressing yourself upon this is an opportunity for you to recognize that perhaps it is time to switch gears

**Sharing:** that's very clear what would you like to be doing in life that you're not doing

**Bashar:** that's that's a good question good question do you have a good answer

**Sharing:** I have I I have a lot of good answers and that is what I tend to identify as a problem yes it's like I'm drawn in so many directions

**Bashar:** all right then take all of those directions and see if you can lump them into one category that represents the most exciting idea for example someone might say I'm torn between painting and writing and singing and talking and so on and so on I don't know what to do ah but all of them are forms of communication so maybe that's what excites you just as an example the idea can be that if you find yourself pulled in different directions that seem equal first of all recognize they will usually not come with an equal amount of ability upon act on the most exciting thing you can do at any given moment that you have the greatest ability to do something about did you like that the idea there again is to really recognize what all of these different variations and methodologies might be represented as an overall category

**Sharing:** mhm I I've looked at that

**Bashar:** yes and what have you come up with

**Sharing:** um it's all energetic it's all with people

**Bashar:** yes in what way how do you see yourself how do you visualize how do we imaginate yourself dealing with people what is the best the most exciting way you can imagine doing it tell me tell me tell me tell me very [Applause] well how do you see yourself interacting with people

**Sharing:** um it's I've see a lot of different ways

**Bashar:** yes name one name one

**Sharing:** um how about standup comic there's there's i' I've always loved performing it's makes me very happy

**Bashar:** really yes no kidding what a surprise you won't tell anybody

**Sharing:** I won't tell a story it'll be our little SE we will now swear everyone to see this when will you begin to perform

**Sharing:** I perform all the time professionally okay um can I say something else instead of answering your question I don't know can you

**Bashar:** yes

**Sharing:** oh I've been yes oh I've been what stops me from performing professionally is my interpretation that it doesn't make a difference on the planet and it's not [Music] worthwhile

**Bashar:** may I ask you a question now thank you do you believe that creation makes pointless Creations

**Sharing:** do I believe that yes

**Bashar:** do you believe that all that is whatever creates something that has no purpose in being that is pointless that has no use that exists for no reason

**Sharing:** I don't believe it

**Bashar:** thank you then obviously if you exist and what gives you Joy is to perform MH then obviously it must by definition make a difference or you wouldn't exist so why not give yourself the same break the same benefit of the doubt break the same benefit of the doubt the same consideration and the same respect that all that is Gives You by having created you why deny your self-respect when it is your inherent right since you do exist if you exist you make a difference if you weren't going to make a difference you wouldn't exist there is no such thing as a one-sided coin if you have something to give there is someone who wants to receive it there is someone who wants to receive it the longer you hold it back the longer you make them wait you understand

**Sharing:** yeah together the giver and the receiver are both sides of the coin which then can be spent abundantly and then it will Flow To You um I don't know how to start

**Bashar:** oh yes you have already started let's go give me a [Applause] dollar you could do that and that is just as creative as anything in fact we did that once and people can do that if they wish at the same time while they are doing that let us talk about the idea of performance itself since that seems to be what gives you Joy guess [Music] what an actress [Applause] [Music] your entire your entire world your entire world go up there your entire ask for a t your entire world your entire world is one thing one [Applause] all right all [Applause] right got brought down the house you have a successful play where will your next performance are you going to go on tour and do this in all the [Applause] cities where are you playing [Music] next I will't tell you in your terms of linear time I will next communicate to a civilization 257 light years for can I come to

**Bashar:** yes you may attend thank you but only in your dream state

**Sharing:** okay that's good don't do this now just for a moment let us use what you have created to springboard you to the next level for what you have experienced now is but one infinitesimal aam of the Ecstasy and the abundance and the flow and the synchronicity that you could experience in your life do you think you can stand that much ecstasy or will you just explode

**Sharing:** I can stand that

**Bashar:** all right then do not say you do not know how to proceed you do all you have to do is use your imagination in the very same way you used it this day of your time in whatever Direction you so desire there are no limitations there are no limitations create the reality you prefer create what your imagination is most strongly and magnetically attracted to go and be with the people that you feel are representative of the vibration you want in your life let them rub off on you be that person now act like the person you want to be now do the things that person would do now be as bold in every Endeavor that excites you as you have been this day of your time you have given yourself the perfect example you have created it yourself you are in no way shape or form lacking in creativity and generation of flow as you have very very very strongly Illustrated so from this point forward when you in any way shape or form Express that if you don't know how to proceed I will not believe you thank you thank you for the most Pleasant and enjoyable and ecstatic and synchronistic and abundant exchange thank you thank you your applause is for yourselves completely right thank you for appreciating who you really are what you really can do when you finally decide to align these are the things at which I have fun

***

### Conversation 12: Christ Consciousness and Aldebaran

**Sharing:** is your is our accelerated time paralleling to your own

**Bashar:** yes in a sense we are moving from fourth to fifth density becoming non-physical beings as a society even as you move into a higher sense of uh physicality the one that we occupy now in a sense we are paralleling

**Sharing:** yes will you remain with us or is it uh are you just going to go on to other

**Bashar:** we will go on and remain with you because the higher we go the more expanded we become and the more we already contain you and you contain us the more we become one you understand

**Sharing:** yes I do this is the par Paradox you see of all creation for in a sense the more we express the full uniqueness and differences between us the more we grow together as one total Infinite Creation I see

**Bashar:** yes is there anything else you wish to know about my civilization

**Sharing:** um do you um well I'd like to know a lot um do you um well I'd like to know a lot of things uh ask your questions do you um uh let's see forgotten what I was going to ask now um do you well I don't know what I was going to ask then ask something else um I would like to ask something else but it's not related to your uh time unless it's related in a way that's accelerated um there's been thought or there's been um some understanding that this accelerated time that we're in is was related to the time of Christ when Christ was here on Earth

**Bashar:** yes in a sense most directly and most specifically in the sense that what you call the Christ Consciousness is the collective World Spirit the collective consciousness of your entire civilization and the parallel is that what is going on now in terms of a so-called Second Coming yeah is simply The Awakening of what you call the Christ Consciousness within each and every one of you

**Sharing:** I see is this within ourselves or no just

**Bashar:** just just within yourselves do you not understand that this was the message of the Christ Consciousness

**Sharing:** yes

**Bashar:** the idea of quote unquote I am the way means do like I do not follow me not worship me I am the way be this way and you you will be all that is that's what you're now Awakening into that's why there is a strong parallel because you're finally catching on to what was actually said does this help you

**Sharing:** yes it does thank you

**Bashar:** I will give you one parallel from that to our society that we have spoken of before very briefly we also of course as every world does have a world spirit in that sense a world Collective consciousness ours also manifested physiologically once yours is actually manifested many times though you do not necessarily historically recognize this fact but the idea of our world spirit manifested in what we call in our ancient language shakana shakana in this sense manifested for 3 days and no longer and during that three days because we were not as steeped in limitation and segregation as your Society those three days was sufficient for us to connect tele empathically with our entire race and from that point forward shakana in that sense became non-physical and imbued and Infused each and every one of us our shakana your Christ Consciousness your Buddha nature your Woka all of these are the same idea the world spirit and your world spirit with our world Spirit and the world Spirit of all worlds together form all that is end of story thank you thank you very much the next names are um Carol and R andess and andess and Cherry bash and you good day

**Sharing:** it's very exciting being here with you

**Bashar:** very exciting for us us to communicate with you as well remember that there is more than just myself listening in uhoh uh I'd like to know about uh Alder Baron yes I was told that that's where I'm from and I don't I can't find any information about it

**Bashar:** all right Al Dean the star in this sense Sports the concept of a refocusing station a refocusing energy a non-physical attachment of Consciousness to that Stellar system nothing really exists in a natural state physiologically as an inhabitation of the aldebran system but it is connected to a non-physical Consciousness which is a gateway to a specific dimension of energy you have connections to that dimension of energy but aldebran also acts as a deflector you come from other connections as well as all of you do but in this sense aldebran is acting to deflect the energy to give you shall we say a corner to turn a Twist to follow so that you do not have a direct lineage to your connections the energy has come to Earth around the corner so to speak not in a straight line this may not seem to make sense at line this may not seem to make sense at first but understand it energetically it is in that sense a reflective station in that you if you were to look at this linearly in your SpaceTime Continuum issued your Consciousness from another place deflected off of the gate that is Al and then decided to manifest in many other locals including her so Al Dean acts as a coordinative mirror allowing you to focus where you will many of your manifestations in different realities will all Rec conglomerate back in Al Dean but then it will be seen that Aldean will take you through another gate in another Direction altogether is not that you come from there but that you come through there as a modulating system do you understand

**Sharing:** yes you come and have chosen through that system because of the type of energy that it permeates being very similar to your dimensional frequency does this help you

**Bashar:** yes one frequency does this help you yes one moment One Moment One Moment okay there is also a modulator being a friend a guide in a sense connected to Al Dean that helps you keep your focus clear helps keep all the different channels that you have become in many different lifetimes in many different civilizations in many different worlds helps keep them all separate and clean and clear you have in a sense then a friend a modulating non-physical guidance energy in the aldebran Consciousness helping you to keep yourself straight in each of the experiences that you have chosen this is the trademark of a particular non-dimensional type of civilization of which you are connected it it is your simple style of methodology of infusing and exploring yourself into different dimensionalities how do you wish to apply this information or how does this information assist you in this particular physical Incarnation or manifestation

**Sharing:** I don't know what do you do in your life here now hon Earth

**Bashar:** I'm a speech therapist

**Sharing:** speech therapist children children all right why why why children

**Bashar:** I love children

**Sharing:** why why cuz I'm a child

**Bashar:** yes but you are also something else you are also in a sense in a sense in a sense in a sense do not necessarily take me in the way you understand this terminology but in a sense you are also an angel a guiding Guardian Angel Al Deon also has direct Connections in many ways to the Arcturus gate through which all the children now incarnating on your planet are in a sense guided in process so they will not forget as much of who they are as in the past they would have you have formed a pulsing agreement a synchronized agreement from Aldean to Arcturus in this sense in dealing with children you are an energy worker in that sense an energy worker on a very profound level speech therapy is simply the idea level speech therapy is simply the idea of the modulation of vibration so that communication can be clear look to the idea of the vibrations more than the words and communication will be clearer than you can Poss possibly imagine all right thank you does this help you

**Sharing:** very much thank you very much color color color color color use a lot of color do you uh do I yes do you in in what way use a way in working with the children

**Bashar:** color and sound in working with the children use it it will help them make the associations to the vibrations that they need to make they are having difficulty if with anything with Association of context the color The Sounds will help them form associations that are more natural for them because they speak in other ways you understand ways you understand yes and what you are basically doing is helping a group of beings who have difficulty communicating in your third density state because they are not used to communicating that way so in many ways you have chosen them because they are very much like you being more familiar with non-dimensional modes of communication therefore the color and the sound will help them make an association use your imagination and creativity to make the connections they will get the picture

