---
heading: Part 1
title: "Believing is Seeing"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1991-09-01
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 200
tags: ['dna', 'anunnaki']
---



Your species has created the polarities, the dichotomies, the limitations, the separations, and the segregations within your consciousness.

This prevents you from realizing your ability to access what you need.

You sometimes get very caught up in the negative side of events when it is a very simple thing really for you to recognize that while you may feel that you only have the ability to draw upon or attract to you or experience within you the negative side of an event or a situation, that in all reality you really do have at the same time immediate access to the positive side as well. 

But being focused on the negative side doesn't allow you to see that.

For example, we hear very often many individuals talk about how they would like to do this and do that. Yet, they say they do not have the confidence in that.

They have no confidence at all. They lack confidence in their ability. And yet we find that when they say that, they are utterly and totally confident about the fact that they have no confidence. This paradox is more than just a play on words, a philosophical musing. You can really understand how to use this paradox, this polarity, to your advantage.

You always, always, always, always, always have both sides of a situation at any time present. There are, as we have said many times, to coin a phrase, no such things as one-sided coins. If you have one side of the coin in your hand, you have the other side. All you have to do is flip it over to see it.

The idea therefore is to recognize that at any time you feel, anytime you think, anytime you believe, that you are in a situation, that you are immersed in a circumstance where you can only perceive one particular concept, one particular aspect, one particular, shall we say, flavor of reality—and more often than not, for many of you, the negative side—you have an opportunity to turn it over, flip it over, and recognize that the positive side must by definition be there if you only give yourself an opportunity to look for it.

Again, for example, many individuals say that they have no conviction about things, yet they are fully convicted on that fact. Individuals say that they do not trust in something, that they have no faith, and yet their faith is unshakable in the fact that they have no faith. Always you have the other side of the issue. And if you will allow yourself to get in touch with the fact—again going back to the first example—that if you think you have no confidence, yet realize you're absolutely confident about that, you can allow yourself to feel the confidence you have about believing in your lack of confidence because that's exactly what's going on.

You are really never not doing something. You are really never not trusting something. You are really never not confident about something. You are always confident. You are always convicted. You are always trusting. 

It's just a matter of figuring out what it is, what belief, what definition of life you are trusting in. You are confident about. You are never without trust. You are never without confidence and conviction. When you feel like you have no confidence or no trust, it's simply because you have bought into a definition. You are trusting in a definition. You are fully confident that a certain definition is the only reality that is true for you. And that's why you have the feeling that you do. But really, in all reality, you are always in the mode of creation. You are never ever ever lacking in creativity.

We had an individual conversation with one of your members recently and this individual complained that they had in their life a lack of creativity. Yet it was an extreme act of creativity to come up with the idea that they lacked it. It took a lot of creativity to imagine that they had none. And once they understood that, they could learn to incorporate the creativity they had used to create the illusion of a lack of creativity in another direction. So it's just a matter of allowing yourself to know you cannot have only one side of an issue. You cannot only be polarized really in one way. You always have both. If you're focused on one side, the other is lingering around. All you need to do to make it visible is remember that both sides must be there. Always. You cannot only have one side. It's not the way your reality works.

In these interactions, this day of your time that we shall share, it can thus then be remembered what we are saying now and apply to each and every one of the circumstances that we can talk about. So that you, each and every one of you, according to your own desires, according to your own wishes, can apply this information, can apply this recognition and realization to your day-to-day existences in a practical and pragmatic way so that you can create the changes you want. Because you will find that more often than not, the kind of changes you want to create in your reality is simply a matter of changing the definitions you have been taught about your reality. Because your physical reality is only the product of what you have been taught to define it to be, of what you have been taught to believe is possible. There is no outside physical reality. There is no empirical physical reality aside from your definition of the experience. So as you change the definition of yourself, as you change the definitions of life that you have bought into, perhaps picking them up from your parents, your peers, your society at large, as you change those definitions, I guarantee you will see changes take place in your apparently externalized reality. For your physical reality is but the shadow of your soul, just a reflection in a mirror. That's all it is.

And you can see this demonstrated again in a very practical way. This does not have to remain a high philosophical concept with absolutely no application to your physiological lives. We would not be discussing it if that is all it was. These are really descriptions of the physical mechanisms through which you create your physical reality and by which you can change it in the directions that you prefer. All you have to do is practice these ideas, put them into practice and you will see the result. But remember, very important: you cannot always gauge whether or not you have changed by how your external reality looks because sometimes certain situations can serve double duty. And just because you might have been in a negative mode and attracted a certain kind of situation to you and it looked a certain way, and then decide you're going to change into a more positive mode, positive definitions, it doesn't mean that another situation will not crop up that doesn't look exactly the same way that it did when you were creating or attracting it through your negativity.

It isn't about always that the situation outside looks different when you have changed. The way you know you have changed is if you respond differently to the situation because if you do, you will extract a different effect, a different outcome from the situation. Even if it looks like the same situation, you attract it in a negative mode. So do not, as you say, judge the book by its cover. Allow yourself to decide whether you have really changed, not based on whether you appear to continue to see the same things over and over again, but based on whether you continue to react in the same way over and over again and extract from that reaction the same outcome over and over again. If you know you have changed, if you have changed your definition, you have to act like you have changed in all the things that happen. Even if they look the same as they did before, if you respond differently, you will eventually see that you will receive a completely different outcome, a completely different effect from your response. What you put out is what you get back. The third law of creation.



### **Conversation 1: Abduction Memories and Purpose**

**Questioner:** I told you about a dream I had when I was a little girl about being taken by some beings and immersed in a liquid. Can you share with me who these beings were and what dimension I was in?

**Bashar:** You had a typical abduction scenario by the gray beings. 

**Questioner:** In what dimension?

**Bashar:** They come through a fourth-dimensional matrix. They are simply in another vibratory dimension altogether that doesn't have much difference to it than your third-dimensional reality. 

But they have learned how to shift from third through fourth to enter your third-dimensional reality as well. 

They are in a sense in a parallel third quasi-fourth-dimensional reality. Okay? Similar to the dimension that you occupy but on a parallel track. But your society has in many ways attracted that species to you for a variety of reasons. 
>>>>>>> 1cae7bf34ac81143adbc70ba3edbf76173abf010

But they have learned how to shift consciously from their vibrational parallel time track to yours. Does that help you?

Sometimes what you recall as a dream of course is simply the way your mind processes the kind of memory that it is capable of processing of an event that took place in a slightly different dimensional time frame or reality.

Very often many of the interactions that take place in those so-called abduction scenarios actually take place in a slightly shifted temporal reality. What might be called a slightly fourth-dimensional time-space reality. And that's why your mind interprets it as a dream because that reality is similar to the realm you go to when you are out of body and dreaming. And you interpret it therefore when you wake up, when you reenter your physical reality, as if it were nothing more than a typical dream. But it is in that sense a memory of having been in another dimension and your mind makes the best interpretation that it can.

**Questioner:** Am I instrumental in saving another civilization. I don't know if it's in another dimension or another planet.

**Bashar:** That is not really the issue. But let us just say you are of course, as many many other individuals have chosen to be as well, instrumental in playing your part in the overall agenda that will ultimately, regardless of the many different levels of agendas that may be taking place within it now, ultimately will be of assistance in the overall agenda of helping to propel your species on Earth to a new level of consciousness recognition and also to some degree will help the other species evolve as well. Okay. Does that help you?

**Questioner:** Yes, it does. I remember wanting to do that.

**Bashar:** Yes. What you are remembering is a part, a fragment, right, of the agreement, the original agreement for why what is going on is going on. Okay. Does that help you?

**Questioner:** Yes, it does. Thank you very much.

***

### **Conversation 2: The Agenda of the "Grays"**

**Questioner:** Hello Bashar. And to you. Good day. I also have a question about abduction.

**Bashar:** Oh, is this a theme for the evening? It must be. All right.

**Questioner:** I feel I've been abducted since I was very young and recently I've had dreams about ETs.

**Bashar:** It is quite common if someone is involved in that particular agenda with that particular species of extraterrestrial that this will have been going on from childhood and in fact they do follow what you call genetic family lines. So in all likelihood it has been going on through your entire family's history back for generations.

**Questioner:** Yes, I feel that also. Can you tell me about the beings that I've been dealing with?

**Bashar:** Again, it is a faction of what you would call the gray beings. Although there are variations within the overall society that your society generally refers to as the grays.

**Questioner:** Could you tell me the issue that they're here to deal with me?

**Bashar:** There are many, many, many. How has your life changed and in what direction do you feel you have been propelled to explore based on your recognition of your connection to these kinds of events?

**Questioner:** Well I'm changing quite a bit. Spiritually, channeling, and doing various things.

**Bashar:** Let me explain that again. This is only one avenue, one route, one connection, one agenda in the overall program as you say. Let me explain a larger picture of what is going on with regard to the interactions of your society and that society. Many individuals do experience a great deal of fear in those interactions because they feel out of control. The idea is that your society knew that it needed to attract an experience to itself that would force it to face issues deep within its own emotional matrix that had been suppressed for thousands of generations. And even if it had to take place through fear, then that would be the way that you would finally burn away all of those limitations holding you back from becoming the kind of society that you can become. While these beings, the gray beings, have their own agendas, at the same time, your society on a higher level is using their agenda for your own agenda to propel yourselves into more spiritual directions and higher states of evolution. In general, that is what is happening. Although there are again many agendas within the overall big picture agenda. 


### DNA, White Powder Gold, and Physical Reality**

**Questioner:** What is white powder gold, the ghost gold that David Hudson has rediscovered. As I understand, this ghost gold is the basis for the foundation of the human species indirectly involving the Anunnaki. Now I'm not going to go into that rail, but I found myself looking at the idea of DNA. The DNA being the map of each of us that creates each of us in our individual forms.

**Bashar:** Yes, but not quite. DNA is actually what you all are as physical beings. You actually all are physical DNA beings. 

Then the DNA being of each planetary environment extends from itself a kind of environmental suit that is appropriate for its survival in that particular planetary environment. As physical beings, we are DNA beings. You are DNA beings. That's what all physical beings are. And the differences in that we are Cassiopaeans and that you are human are simply the environmental extensions of the primary DNA physical beings that we are. Okay? So it is not that the DNA is like so much just the template within the physical being. The physical shell, the human being, is in that sense simply the extension, the shell, the mask that the DNA being you are requires to live in your physiological environment like a diving suit.

**Questioner:** The chromosome within our cells contains the DNA which is a chaining of molecules as a ladder. two upright portions is a helix in that sense connected through the center rungs between, you twist, create the helix. There are each of these twists is a gene. They found that there are hundreds of genes, possibly thousands per DNA. 

They only understand a few. 

I've realized that this is in a sense a record of each of our beingnesses. 

In a sense, it is the Oversoul's record of all lives implanted.

In that sense, it is the Akashic record being, right? 

It is the first physical manifestation of all the multi-dimensional selfness that you actually are. But it only expresses one aspect of that for the unique physical environment in which it chooses to exist.

**Questioner:** Right. We've only activated... I've only activated my portion of that DNA chain. And although you still do have access to the rest of it through other dimensional vibrational tones. As I accelerate, I begin to activate these other portions of the DNA.

**Bashar:** Yes. So they become more familiar.

**Questioner:** I understand we're en route to the 12-helix but not physiologically.

**Bashar:** You cannot express physiologically the 12 strands of DNA. 

There are 12 vibratory tones that are representative of the total accessible information of the DNA multi-dimensional self.

But only three of them can actually exist in physical reality. The rest will exist in higher dimensional states, which you will learn to access as you expand your vibrational rate, but they will not manifest. Not all 12 will manifest physiologically. If they did, you would be a physical creature so cumbersome you could not survive under your own weight.

**Questioner:** If we were to include even one more, a third helix, this would be a third rung or not rung but upright of the ladder.

**Bashar:** The third one is already there. It is the etheric one between the other two. 

It is the balance point. It is the amalgamation of the two that you already know about. It is more of an electromagnetic phenomena. 

But it is already manifest. The rest of them will be almost totally invisible to you. 

But you can extract them or access them through tonal vibration. The current DNA helixes then must elevate in vibration to become more of a light frequency to be able to connect with the third helix.

When you are operating in your superconductive state, this is exactly what happens. The physiological cellular structure and molecular structure vibrates at its maximum capacity.

This high frequency range gives it total access to the electromagnetic levels and all the multi-dimensional levels above it. 

Since it is all made of light.

we are in essence growing to mimic the Anunnaki. 

Were they mining the gold upon this planet for the purpose of the ghost gold, white powder gold, as we come to for extension of longevity and for the centering of balance of healing?

**Bashar:** Yes, it made them in your eyes practically immortal.

**Questioner:** why would they need it if they had the full 12-helix?

**Bashar:** There were many, many, many different things that happened within what became the Anunnaki. 

By the time that to you, to your civilization, they were known as the Anunnaki, they had already, in many ways, devolved from their original state and required the gold matrix, the gold elixir, in order to maintain their connection since they had long since been grounded in physical reality which  took its toll upon them over generations.

**Questioner:** What dimension were they at that time and what are they now?

**Bashar:** In all contexts they were primarily third/fourth, but they operated on a much higher frequency to some degree than you have for many thousands of years. This doesn't take them beyond what it is your civilization is achieving now.

**Questioner:** What about Your own DNA. Could you describe it at this point in your evolutionary point?

**Bashar:** In that we are transforming from what you would call fourth density to fifth density reality, from physicality to quasi-physical reality. 

We are accessing the tonal qualities at least all the 12 levels. Not to the fullest potential that we necessarily can yet. But we have access to all 12 levels even though our physiological bodies still express only three. 

But our third strand is visible to us because we are more electromagnetic energy now ourselves. Therefore the third strand is visible almost as a crystalline strand of light within our bodies. 


### Historical Secrets and Light/Dark Forces**

**Questioner:** Ah, Shiva, my friend. And to you, good day. How are you all?

**Bashar:** Perfect. And you?

**Questioner:** Great. Thank you. Last week I spent some time with Al Bielek aka Ed Cameron. I suggested that he contact the channel and have a session with you in regards to locating his son. Seems how you're of great service to my wife, but my stepson.

**Bashar:** All right, that will be up to the individual, of course.

**Questioner:** Well, I asked his permission to relay this to you. I didn't want to walk on his path, so to speak.

**Bashar:** Well, understood. However, it makes no difference that you relay it to me. It only makes a difference if that individual chooses to want to interact with us.

**Questioner:** He doesn't know anything about Bashar.

**Bashar:** That's all right. He doesn't necessarily need to know anything about us at all. We always trust that every individual in your society will access the information that they require from whatever source serves them best.

**Questioner:** Well, in as much as he was involved with the Philadelphia Experiment and some of the earlier things—I call them things because it entails so much. I know you and I have discussed Nazi Germany and the US black weapons program in the 30s. Just a little bit of it. And I felt that with that information and his information, he could discover a little bit more about himself.

**Bashar:** All right.

**Questioner:** And so, well, I plan to let him do that with you if he has a mind to.

**Bashar:** As we have said, it is completely his choice. It makes no difference to us. We are always willing to serve. But whatever an individual chooses or how they choose to be served or what they choose to make a contact or connection with is completely their choice.

**Questioner:** Well, speaking for myself, I have no reservations about that lifetime in this lifetime. And I consider this part of the learning experience. Yes. I know there were many scientists and so forth that were brought to the United States at the close of the Second World War.

**Bashar:** This is so. And the societies have gone on. They've become stronger in many ways.

**Questioner:** This kind of leads me into the forces of light and dark.

**Bashar:** Forces of light and dark. Yeah. How melodramatic.

**Questioner:** Well, it would seem to be, but it's not really.

**Bashar:** It would only seem to be because individuals on your planet choose to define it as such. We are not discounting that there are many individuals who are negatively oriented and may have negative intentions toward other individuals. It is just that the reinforcement of this idea in melodramatic terms is what gives them their power.

**Questioner:** Okay. Roy, I find in my research of history, a lot of the things that you won't find in history books, the light seems to be the dark and the dark seems to be the light. In what sense do you mean that?

**Bashar:** Well, with the Knights Templar... oh, many times things are in that sense disguised as you would recognize it. Yes. Many, many, many negative acts have been constantly performed in the name of what you would call good and righteousness.

**Questioner:** Yeah. Well I just find that completely interesting.

**Bashar:** Well yes, it is one of the most fascinating things about your species. It's one of the reasons we are also quite fascinated with your civilization. It's a history though that many people do not want to look at. They... 99% of your history is not in your books.

**Questioner:** Is there anything you could add to that?

**Bashar:** There are many things we have already added to it and many more things that we will add to it, but it will require a specific conversation on a specific subject at the appropriate time to do so. And you will let me know when that time comes to be.

**Questioner:** No, I mean with myself.

**Bashar:** Oh, okay. We can only take our cue from the timing we sense in each and every one of you as we communicate and converse with you. So, I got to go to the mountain. You see, you have to become the mountain itself. And then you open a door for us that allows us to reflect back to you what it is you are already willing to know. Okay? But there is no great mystery in this. And we do not attempt or mean or intend for it to sound mysterious. No. It's simply a matter of timing. That's all.

**Questioner:** No, I'm not trying to make it mysterious or anything. It's there. It's there for anyone that wants to see it.

**Bashar:** Yes. They just have to open their eyes.

**Questioner:** Nice. You were talking earlier about the agenda with the Zetas. When I first discovered there was a link, I kind of freaked out a little bit. I was going in two different directions.

**Bashar:** Polarization. Yes.

**Questioner:** And after completing the circle I look forward to sharing another lifetime with you in the S.

**Bashar:** Thank you. We've been there before and that was the most revealing thing I think you've ever said to me.

**Questioner:** Yes. And of course in being somewhere before it means we are there now since all things exist simultaneously.

**Bashar:** Oh yes. This is why I come every chance I get.

***

### **Conversation 5: White Powder Gold (Manna) and Health**

**Questioner:** In regards to the white powder, the manna, ghost gold. When was the last time it was actually used on Earth? Was it the Eye of Horus schools? The left eye and the right eye. Are you referring to Horus?

**Bashar:** Yes. There were a few usages as late in your history as what you would call Celtic history. A few in what you would call those alchemical transactions. Now and then one would stumble across the correct formula. But in terms of massive usage, the last that was bequeathed unto your civilization in a massive way was that you recognize in your biblical scriptures as the Exodus and the manna from heaven.

**Questioner:** Aleister Crowley never partook of this?

**Bashar:** No. It was recognized in energy form by many individuals that such a substance existed. And to some degree, the tonal vibration of that aspect of the elements was a little bit incorporated into some individuals who went to a certain level of their practicing of certain kinds of arts, but not the actual substance itself did they create. You understand the difference?

**Questioner:** No. Could you run that by me?

**Bashar:** In other words, individuals that did explore what you might call the arcane arts, the metaphysical arts in times past were aware that such a thing might exist. And in being aware of it were able sometimes to alter their frequency to tap into the energetic signature of that substance as it exists within the natural elements. But they never were actually capable of creating the physical substance itself after the Druidic times. I see. Does that help you?

**Questioner:** Yes, it does. Then which would come first? The superconsciousness of the powder or would the white powder ingesting bring about?

**Bashar:** To some degree. It is as you say a cyclic thing. You have to have some manner of understanding of the frequency in order to attract to yourself the ability to manifest the actual physiological substance. But your body naturally builds these substances in its cellular structure over time if you treat your body well. If you do not expose yourself to too many toxins, if you do not expose yourself to too much stress, if you ingest those things that will allow your body to remain light and in that sense cleansed so that it can naturally remove toxins from its system, then over time your body will naturally produce these things, allow your cellular structure to become more superconductive. And then at that time you are more likely to attract the knowledge and the ability of how to create that substance in massive amounts, massive quantities within the body itself, either within the body itself or externally through the technology that these individuals are now rediscovering one way or the other. Or as has the individual in question, that which you now name the David Hudson individual, through a reincarnational memory of having known how to create it before in Atlantean times and simply remembering how he did. Attracting himself to the circumstances, the same circumstances in which he originally discovered it. Tapping into his past reincarnational self to give himself the vibration in this life that would make him magnetic enough to attract the same circumstances to help him rediscover what he knew back then. Same song, second verse.

**Questioner:** Yes, exactly. Okay. Does that help you quite a bit? Fine. Thank you. You're bringing to us. Well, thank you for allowing us to reflect back to you those things you have kept hidden from yourselves. It's nice to have them opened up again and it seems like a present every time opening a present listening to these discourses. You are all a great gift. Yes, thank you. They seem to expand us a lot. At least it does. Thank you for finally unwrapping yourselves.

**Questioner:** Yes. I'd like to unwrap myself further. Go right ahead. I have a problem, a physical problem with my neck and back.

**Bashar:** All right. A challenge and an opportunity.

**Questioner:** Yes. I've been working with it in various ways and I'm just wondering if I'm doing the effective things for it.

**Bashar:** What have you already done?

**Questioner:** I've done some chiropractic. First I had it checked out by a neurologist and that to me wasn't very helpful. Then I went to several chiropractors and now I'm in Network Chiropractic which is kind of like energy work. I'm also taking herbs. And you were talking about us finding new ways of making our bodies lighter and I'm just wondering if I am using the correct products to lighten my body, to make myself as best the best that I can be. How is your diet?

**Questioner:** I believe my diet is pretty good.

**Bashar:** Which would mean what?

**Questioner:** Well, it's vegetarian and lately I've been taking a lot of Herbalife products and I don't know if they're the correct things to take. They seem to make me feel lighter.

**Bashar:** Sometimes they can be but it will depend upon the circumstances and the situation. Mostly of course it will be the capability in terms of your ingestion of vegetable products of ensuring to the best that you can that you are not also ingesting large amounts of toxins. Yes. Along with it that which you would label as pesticides.

**Questioner:** It's based on cellular nutrition. It's supposed to make sure that your body's cells do absorb all the good things they're supposed to absorb.

**Bashar:** Yes. But sometimes if you have to take counter measures, then your body is working overtime to just bring itself back to a relatively normal state and spending all of its energy to maintain a certain level rather than being allowed to truly accelerate. And in that sense, therefore, your body may actually be depleting itself of certain other nutritional elements.

**Questioner:** Are our bodies capable without any kind of additives, just eating the foods that are available, the healthy foods, are they able to if they are naturally grown?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** Okay. So in other words we don't need vitamins or supplements.

**Bashar:** They are all in your foods and the herbs now and then are not in any way shape or form negative and sometimes can be added but only simply as a part of the natural diet. The supplements are only necessary in concentrated form as you have them because the substances that you ingest are so depleted at this time.

**Questioner:** So it doesn't hurt me to take additional herbs?

**Bashar:** No, it does not hurt you in that sense. All we are simply saying, however, is that sometimes what you are doing is only helping you maintain a certain level because all of your body's efforts and energies are spent towards counteracting the things that have already been done to it.

**Questioner:** How can we do this more efficiently?

**Bashar:** Well, you can begin, as we have said, through the idea of the ingestion of large amounts of purified water in your systems and as best as you can, the acquisition of large amounts of more organically raised products that are grown upon the earth in areas that are not saturated with toxins and pesticides. You will find as you are finding now in your society that really in all cases practically speaking every disease you know on your planet is the product of the fact that your body is laden with poisonous metals and toxins and pollutants and almost no other reason really. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes I do.

**Bashar:** The idea is that your body is depleted to the point where it is open to opportunistic organisms for allowing those diseases to be perpetuated or amplified. But the first level really is simply that you are poisoning yourselves to death.

**Questioner:** But looking for purified water and organic products is based on faith. Just because it's labeled as such, you have to believe that it's not mislabeled and that it hasn't... Do you know what I mean?

**Bashar:** You have to believe. You can do the best you can. Do your research. Talk to the people who raised them. Go and find out if in fact they are the way that they say they are. Or of course grow them yourself.

**Questioner:** Okay.

**Bashar:** Now to some degree, some of what is going on, some not even necessarily a major portion but some of what is going on in the area that you are affected physiologically, is to a degree due to a depletion of minerals in the bones. One moment. But we sense that you are out of alignment for other reasons. One moment. What specific symptomologies are you experiencing?

**Questioner:** It feels like almost like a yoke on my shoulders and neck, almost like something is strapped to it and it's a rigidity in my neck and shoulders. They call them subluxations, trigger points.

**Bashar:** Has anything that you have done alleviated these feelings at all in any way temporarily?

**Questioner:** It may.

**Bashar:** It may require on your part that you also take up something that will allow you a greater degree of flexibility in your body to maintain the work that is done instead of allowing yourself to go back to the states of tension that your body is in because of certain misalignments. It may require that in order to perpetuate the work that is done and allow the effect, the positive effect to last, that it may be necessary for you to take up certain practices that would allow you over time to maintain that kind of alignment such as yogic practices and so forth. You understand?

**Questioner:** Is there a certain type of yoga?

**Bashar:** That which will allow you the greatest degree of stretching of flexibility? Now, here's another suggestion. Do you have a favorite animal?

**Questioner:** A cat.

**Bashar:** Yes. Was that a question or a statement?

**Questioner:** It's a cat.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Pay attention to how the cat moves, how the cat stretches, how the cat has body awareness. Start to mimic that animal. It can teach you how to move in certain ways so as to strengthen your body and yet at the same time add a degree of flexibility that you require to stay aligned. Use the animal teachers, the animal totems, the animal reflections on your planet to show you how to be more naturally yourself. That's one of the reasons why they have chosen to be with you to reflect to you those portions of yourself that is more representative of your natural self. So follow your favorite animal in mimicking its motions. How do you imagine or view that the cat would stretch, would limber up, would be flexible? Take on the attitude, the energy of this animal, go through the motions, mimic it and you will find in conjunction with the work you are having done that over time you will be able to maintain the positive effects. Something of that nature also of course trust your imagination and synchronicity to attract you to what will work best for you. Follow along?

**Questioner:** Yes. Is the practice that I'm going through right now, the Network Chiropractic, can it be of assistance to you?

**Bashar:** Yes, but again we find that any one of these specific bodywork practices may not be sufficient if you do not augment it with a program that allows you to expand your degree of flexibility and alignment.

**Questioner:** Okay. Is Iyengar yoga a good one? It's supposed to be for to help you align.

**Bashar:** Certain aspects of it are for you, but some of those aspects may be a little bit too constricting at first for you. You may be able to avail yourself of some of the more loose techniques in that particular practice. But you can mix and match. You don't necessarily have to rigidize yourself by saying, "Well, I must be in just this particular practice or discipline of yoga and cannot mix and match from any other discipline." Just go with which positions feel good. Start with that and look to the ones that allow you the most sensation of stretch and flexibility and release and freedom.

**Questioner:** All right. That would be our immediate suggestion. Okay. Is there anything I can do about the mineral deficiency in the bones?

**Bashar:** One moment. Do you at this time, though we would rarely recommend this, ingest any animal protein at all?

**Questioner:** Not intentionally.

**Bashar:** All right. But it's quite possible. For the moment, for a little while, in small amounts, it might be the most rapid thing if you will do this in the correct way with a high degree of respect, of course, and a high degree of intentionality, knowing that for now you are not causing any harm in this way, nor violating your principles in any way. For right now, to ingest for a while what you would call sardines.

**Questioner:** I can go with that.

**Bashar:** All right, that will...

**Questioner:** I was going to buy a can.

**Bashar:** Well, what a synchronicity. Do so. Trust your instincts. It has all the mineral contents, the ones in oil, that will replace those minerals you have lost in your bone structure.

**Questioner:** If I eat it three times a week, that would be sufficient.

**Bashar:** Okay, maybe even more than sufficient. Twice might be enough, but start with what you feel correct about and then taper back.

**Questioner:** I'm always afraid of canned goods because I always feel there may be some diseased fish in there or something.

**Bashar:** All right, but again, watch out for your fears in that sense because if they are truly fears as opposed to simple observations, you yourself through the energy of your fear can bring about a self-fulfilling prophecy.

**Questioner:** Okay, I will. But the sardines are a correct reflection of your natural instincts and you must learn to trust your instincts in this particular case.

**Questioner:** All right. Do I eat the bones too? Does that help?

**Bashar:** Eat the whole sardine. Okay, you understand? They can be small, so you won't notice the bones.

**Questioner:** One more question. Is there something else that I can do emotionally?

**Bashar:** Well, since you asked the question, why don't you give me an answer? What emotions do you think you have to deal with?

**Questioner:** Well, I know there is, as you say, a feeling of constriction in the body that usually reflects... that's usually where it all begins. Yes. In your emotional patterns, in your belief system structures, in yourself. I have a belief that I'm free. And then again, I have a belief that I'm constricted.

**Bashar:** And by what?

**Questioner:** Constricted by whom? I'm keeping myself from expanding. I'm holding myself back.

**Bashar:** Yes. But why? What are you basing that on? What belief systems did you buy into that allow you to operate in a way that you say you don't wish to operate?

**Questioner:** That's a good question. Oh, thank you very much. Do you have a good answer?

**Bashar:** Well, partially.

**Questioner:** Well, give me the part you know. You don't have the complete picture. Give me the part you know.

**Questioner:** Well, it's all my life I believed that I was perfect and that I was okay and my expression was fine, but everything around me told me that I wasn't. So, I bought into it and now it's like I won't allow myself to be me because all of my life I was told that being me is not the correct way to be.

**Bashar:** I see. And who told you this?

**Questioner:** It just seemed to be reflected back to me from other people.

**Bashar:** In what way? By rejection? Can you give me a specific example of something that would represent you being you that you feel other people most likely have rejected?

**Questioner:** My adventurous nature, wanting to try something, wanting to experience something. Such as being at the beach as a child and just wanting to... people telling me not to go to this section of the water. How can you see a boundary? You know, this is where it ends and this is where this part of the lake you can go on. This part you can't. I don't know. I don't know where the boundary is. So, I just wandered freely, you know, feeling safe and happy. Nice. And I fell into a hole and almost drowned and when I was pulled out and brought back on shore, I was punished for going in that area.

**Bashar:** All right. So placed upon you were these, shall we say, straight-jacketed beliefs, for you were directed to fulfill their worst fears and were utilized as the prime example of their fears being true. Yes. All right. Well, you need to drop all the things that have to do with them and start discovering the things that have to do with you. Because the truth is, if I would have learned how to swim, there wouldn't have been a boundary. I could have been able to go anywhere.

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Your truth also is that if you didn't necessarily, through no fault of your own, being a child and not knowing any different, if you had not accepted their belief systems upon you, you probably in all reality would never have ventured anywhere near that particular place where you almost drowned. That's true. But as children, you do not know that your parents do not know. And therefore, by allowing yourself to believe many of the things that come from their own fears, you simply perpetuate their fears into your lifestyle and thus continue the chain of their upbringing that they learned from their parents and their parents before them and their parents before them. But now is the transformational life upon your planet, the transformational age. That's why you're all exploring all these concepts of consciousness because now it is time to realize, to discover what your beliefs are, who you really are. And the first step, the very first step is to allow yourself to realize that you don't know who you are. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So, repeat after me. "I don't know who I am."

**Questioner:** I don't know who I am.

**Bashar:** Oh, that sounded like a question. Make it a statement.

**Questioner:** Who are you? I don't know who I am. I don't know who I am.

**Bashar:** Now, second step is to let it be all right to not know who you are. Let it be all right.

**Questioner:** I don't know and that's all right. I don't know who I am yet and that's all right.

**Bashar:** Yes, it is all right. And the paradox, the way you use the paradox of the situation is that as soon as you allow it to be all right to not know who you are, you start discovering who you really are. You understand? That's how it works. Because you are your experiences of life. You are life itself. You are the process itself. You are the living of your life. That's who you are. That's what you are. But if you are constantly straight-jacketed with other people's ideas of what your life should be, you're not living your life. You're living their life over and over and over and over and over again. So the first step in releasing the things that have nothing to do with you is to finally get to a stage where it's all right to admit you don't know who you are. And that begins to free you from the expectations of others and the expectations you have placed upon yourself because of other expectations upon you. Make sense?

**Questioner:** Yes. That's the beginning.

**Bashar:** So take a deep breath. Deep, deep, deep. And let it out in a sigh of release. Let it feel good to finally not know who you are. It's the first step toward discovering who you are. Then I can feel good about following my impulses because they will bring me to who I am.

**Questioner:** Yes. Okay.

**Bashar:** Always notice that sometimes in your practicing of the following of your impulses, they may from time to time still represent other people's beliefs. But that's all right. You'll find out very rapidly whether that's true or not. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. Because that's what got me in trouble as a child. I always followed my impulses to go to this side of the lake, to go over the fence and play with the neighbors.

**Bashar:** We are not saying that there are not some guidelines that need to be provided for individuals that are new to any particular reality. But they need to be provided without the fear that locks them into you in such a patterned way that you take many many years to finally discover that those patterns are not necessary at all anymore within you. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. So in allowing myself to free myself by following my impulses, what kind of guidelines, safety guidelines can I use for myself so that I will feel comfortable going for it?

**Bashar:** The first one is to know that no matter what happens, really no matter what happens, you will be all right because you are an eternal spirit. So I'm going to use the extreme case. Even if you follow your instinct and you die, you're still going to be all right because you are an eternal spirit and you will never cease to exist. In that sense, you cannot be destroyed. So that's the extreme that could ever happen. You will follow your instincts and trot merrily down the street and whap, you die. Bang, that's it. You're dead. But that's not it. It's not over. You're still around. And you can say, "Oops. Well, that was interesting." You have to also trust that you are where you are for a reason. That you would have originally chosen to be on Earth to explore the things you're exploring now. And you can start to trust the synchronicity of your own timing, that in all likelihood, in all likelihood, while it's not impossible, in all likelihood you would not set up that kind of an extreme scenario. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So start to relax at your own pace. We're not saying you have to let it all drop at once if you don't feel comfortable doing that. But you can. You can trust yourself. You can trust your arrangements, your timing, your chosen agreements, and let your life play out as quickly or slowly as you like. You can let go of those things that don't serve you. The faster you do that, the faster you make room for the things to come in your life that are representative of you, the real you, the true you. Does that make sense to you?

**Questioner:** Yes, it does. So the way through almost any fear is to take that fear to the extreme, knowing that even when you do so, you're still going to be all right somehow. And therefore, you can back off of your rigidization and let the weight remove itself from your shoulders. The burden of carrying around everyone else's belief systems is really what's causing the rigidization.

**Bashar:** Yes, I believe that.

**Questioner:** So that parallels my inability to float on water. All right. Because I don't trust that the universe will hold me up and that the water will hold me up.

**Bashar:** But the universe always holds you up. Yes. It can only simply hold you up according to the beliefs that are most strongly radiating from you.

**Questioner:** Is there anything that I can do to help myself float on water to give myself an example of my life holding?

**Bashar:** Crane your head back farther. Okay. When you float on your back, crane your head back farther. Okay. Now, you don't necessarily have to do that right away, but get in touch. More importantly, again, go back to the sentence. Go back to the sentence. When you said that you believe the universe won't support you, remember what we said initially. It is never a negative scenario. It is never a negative scenario. You are always creating something. You are always being supported. The first step is to change your definition. You are always being supported. It's just a matter of what are you being supported in? What belief are you being supported in? If you don't believe in yourself in that sense or, again more precisely, if you believe you are capable of this particular definition of life and to you it is a not preferable definition, the universe will still support you in that unpreferable definition because that's what you believe in and the universe will support you in that.

**Questioner:** Because I believe my body does float but it floats a few inches under the surface and that is not my preference.

**Bashar:** All right. But allow yourself if you wish to start there. Okay? Because again it's all right also to be under the surface. Everything is all right in that sense. Even if it is not your preference, the way to get to your preference is to allow what is going on to be all right for what it is. Which means stick my chin out, throw my head back.

**Questioner:** Yes. And in other words, let go.

**Bashar:** Yeah. Stick your chin out and let them whack at it because you're not... let the world whack at it because you're not afraid of the... because they cannot really touch the real you. They can only touch the things that have nothing to do with you. Okay. Now, as a suggestion for your floating practice, go somewhere where you have a lot of salt in the water. A lot of salt.

**Questioner:** Is Lake Mead? I don't think they have salt.

**Bashar:** If you wish, create in your pool or tub something, perhaps start small, but something big enough that you can float in. Find a chamber that you can float in, big enough, and load it with salt water. And I mean load it with salt because you will then float and you will know what the sensation is like. That will also work to some degree.

**Questioner:** But usually they are very shallow and they don't allow salt. I don't think they have salt in them, do they?

**Bashar:** Oh yes. That's why you float. Okay. The idea is to find that body of water or create that body of water. The ideal is not even necessarily laden with enough salt for some individuals. You must understand that sometimes this is also just about specific body weight and mass. Okay? And sometimes you just don't have the kind of body weight or mass that it takes to float in certain concentrations of water. Some people simply will not...

**Questioner:** Was that my lungs just didn't hold enough air because I was too uptight?

**Bashar:** No. No, no, no. Not always the case. It's not the lack of mineral in my bones either. It is not the case. But for the sensation to build the confidence that on some way, shape, or form it's possible for you, we recommend the high concentration of salt in some body of water that you may need to create for yourself just so you know what it feels like to float. Because that's all you really need to do is access that feeling.

**Questioner:** Yes. And then apply that idea to the fact that the universe always has some avenue by which you can in that sense know you are always supported. And for you, the avenue right now as an analogy may simply be to create a body of salt water that will allow you to float. I believe that would make a big difference in my believability factor.

**Bashar:** Then go and find some kind of container that is big enough for you to float in and fill it and fill it and impregnate it with salt.

**Questioner:** Any kind of salt or does it have to be sea salt?

**Bashar:** Salt. Salt. Salt. Salt. Okay. All right. Thank you very much.

***

### **Conversation 6: Hauntings, Vortices, and Sensitivity**

**Questioner:** Hello Bashar and to you. Good day. I was having a question concerning the ones of us that cross over to the other side. Yeah. I was in a couple of places recently where I felt such, I guess you could call it, the electromagnetic energy in certain areas are supposed to be haunted with a lot of the spirits that have crossed over. All right. What causes that? I'm confused. I don't know why I pick up on it and why I seem to be focused in with a lot of it and why certain places are haunted when other places aren't.

**Bashar:** All right. Thank you. First of all, of course, obviously many individuals on your planet now are becoming more sensitized to those electromagnetic vibrations that are representative of the lower frequencies of spiritual non-physical reality. Each and every one of you in your exploration of consciousness are going to become more sensitized to higher frequencies of energy which is what is represented by that non-physical dimension. Places that you might call hauntings can exist for a variety of reasons. They can be because of the intention of the spirit in that it feels it has an attachment to that particular area and lowers its frequency sufficiently so that from time to time it can still be perceived within the range limits of the senses of physiological beings. But more often than not now on your planet your senses are extending, becoming more rarified, more sensitized. And so those spirit beings don't even have to lower their vibration as much as they used to in order to be perceived by people who are still physically alive. You follow along?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Now, if you have that kind of sensitivity, it is usually an indication that you are exploring some ideas of spirituality yourself or expanding your consciousness yourself or have an affinity to the idea of that particular vibrational realm and a connection, a strong connection to it that you can utilize for your own service and your own work. I see. And certain areas also have certain electromagnetic patterns to them. They just overlap. The electromagnetic fields of both dimensions overlap in certain ways as to cause what might be called a thickening of that particular spiritual dimensional energy in that area and you may feel those areas are also doorways or gateways between the two realms. You follow along?

**Questioner:** I do so far. Like a vortex you're saying. Okay. Is there a certain place on our planet where this is concentrated? Where the majority...

**Bashar:** There are many many many many vortices, many vortices just as there are many places in a tapestry where the threads cross. I see. You understand? Within our electromagnetic field, within the electromagnetic field of the planet.

**Questioner:** Yes. Yes. Of course. Okay. Do we have a lot of holes in our electromagnetic field? Are you talking about of the planet?

**Bashar:** Of the planet itself. Do you mean doorways, gateways?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Yes. You have hundreds, thousands. It's natural. There are always overlaps. There are always bleed-throughs with any reality in any dimension. There are always going to be gateways to all the others because you are all one simultaneous multi-dimensional reality. So each existence, even the physiological ones, are going to have points of overlap where it is easier to access all the other dimensionalities through those points.

**Questioner:** Do we know of many of these vortexes in our physical reality?

**Bashar:** Yes, of course. You know of many of them. You have many around your immediate area and there are major ones upon your planet. What you would call the chakras of the planet. You understand?

**Questioner:** And which one? Where?

**Bashar:** Well, such as the idea of your Mount Shasta in your California area, your Mount Fuji in your Japan area, your Mount Haleakala in your Hawaiian area, your Himalayan mountain areas around what you would call your Tibet is a very strong one. There are many in what you would call your Central and South American areas. And of course at both poles. Okay? There are many major vortices around your planet and many minor ones. You have very strong magnetic vortices in what you call your desert areas around your immediate area now where you are.

**Questioner:** I see. So is that a dimensional door where aliens or extraterrestrials can cross through as well?

**Bashar:** Yes. And that's why many such sightings take place in those areas.

**Questioner:** Oh, I see. Okay. And they can be... we can have contact with our deceased, the ones on the other side?

**Bashar:** Oh yes. You can do that anywhere really. If you yourself are a strong enough concentration of electromagnetic energy that's focused in a certain way with your intention, you can do that anywhere. But yes, there are certain areas that may be considered to be slightly more conducive or literally more conductive to those kinds of connections and realizations and communications.

**Questioner:** Yes. And why is it that certain ones of us are really drawn to these areas that we can't explain? Like sometimes I'll even dream weeks to months ahead of time of a place before I actually get there and actually experience the haunting of the electromagnetic field frequencies.

**Bashar:** Because it has a similar vibrational frequency pattern to the ones that you are building up within you and like attracts like. I see. It's all a matter of vibrational physics.

**Questioner:** And we could become a channel for the ones to deceased over also if you vibrational...

**Bashar:** Okay. All right. I guess does that answer your question?

**Questioner:** That pretty much answers everything then. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Yeah. Thank you. Of course you knew all this anyway. Maybe. I think you did.

***

### **Conversation 7: Following Excitement and Archetypes**

**Questioner:** Uh, good evening, Bashar. Andrew, you. Good day. Yeah, I'd like to say they did say uh I was going to say honor, but you're... that's too stuffy. It's a delight, I should say.

**Bashar:** Boy, thank you. We are delighted by our interactions with all of you as well. Okay. Some background. I've got a complicated set of questions here that all will probably come down to a single answer. I discovered that I'm an abductee since early childhood. And all through my early adult life, what I thought was doing was recording lucid dreams and doing that kind of thing. I see. And after years of documenting all of this, I realized that I was actually documenting the uncovering of being an abductee.

**Bashar:** Now is the time when many of you are beginning to remember these experiences. Yes.

**Questioner:** Yeah. Yeah. There it's an uncovering, remembrance. However, that just happened last fall and a near-death experience and now I've discovered that I found what I think is my soulmate which is like a whole another archetype and a whole another expression of the spirit. All right. And it seems like with all of these things happening in my life, expressing my spirit in songwriting and in my book about uncovering abduction and with the recognition that I'm connected with my soulmate, I think I'm like losing focus and I get a sense that I should be doing something more specific but that I don't know what it is.

**Bashar:** All right. Well, the way you can easily find out what that may be, if such a thing exists, is to simply at any given moment do the thing that excites you the most. And that excitement will always lead you into exactly these situations and circumstances that will bring you every opportunity, situation, and thing you need to pay attention to.

**Questioner:** Excitement is a weird word. I find joy in music and I find joy in painting. I find joy with Valerie. Yes. So, excitement. That's it. It's all exciting. That's what I mean. It's diffusive.

**Bashar:** No, no, no. It is not diffusive in that sense. They are all different manifestations of one overall category of thing that excites you more than anything else. They are simply the different manifestations of that high excitement that take turns having different degrees of capability of allowing you to do something about them. Excitement always comes many times with many different avenues or paths upon which you can act at different times. They will usually not come with an equal ability to act upon them to the same degree at the same time. And that's how you know the one to act upon. The one that comes with the highest degree of ability to be acted upon that is representative of the overall excitement that you feel at that moment. Does that make sense?

**Questioner:** Yeah. I think I'm just trying to do it all actually.

**Bashar:** Well, you are going to do it all, but you don't have to feel scattered or diffused. If you simply recognize that all you need to do is at any given moment, whatever avenue makes itself most available to you for you to act upon, then just simply do that to the best of your ability. That's all you need to do. You don't have to feel scattered or confused or diffused in that sense. There is an overall vibration of excitement that these things are simply different manifestations of. And that means you are still within. And if you keep doing a manifestation, any manifestation, any avenue that is representative of your joy, it means you are staying squarely on the specific path that represents your truth. Because that's what excitement is, your true vibration. Being my true self type of thing, excitement, joy, unconditional love is the physical translation. Those feelings is the physical translation of the vibrational energy of your true self. So anytime you are doing the thing at any given moment that excites you the most that you have the highest degree of ability to do something about, you are squarely staying aligned with the path of your true self no matter what it is.

**Questioner:** Hmm. What I should say the most excitement for me is also what intrigues me most and that is expanding these parameters of reality to include having experiences with learning about songwriting with John Lennon eight years after his death and having a manifestation of spirit in the sky where the clouds took the shape of the profile of Christ which we took a picture of. Nice. All these are synchronicities that simply reflect back to you indications of your own archetypal patterns that are playing out so that you can see in those reflections that you are staying within alignment with your own truth and your own path. Oh, but I seem to be doing various archetypes. The archetype of the abductee, the archetype of the psychic, the archetype of the shaman, the archetype of the soulmate.

**Bashar:** Yes. So that simply means you're operating on a very high collective consciousness level because that's what an archetype is, a collective consciousness representation. Does that make sense to you?

**Questioner:** Yeah. Yeah. It certainly does. Is there something lacking in that? Yeah. I because I think that there should be some kind of, you know, product out of all of this. I should write the manuscript. I should paint the picture. I should sell the songs. I should copyright the picture of Christ. I don't know. I should maybe... being a soulmate with Valerie, maybe it's a matter of that different entity. And you know, that's a whole another ball of wax.

**Bashar:** If you say that you are excited about the idea of writing certain things, why don't you?

**Questioner:** I did I say excited about the idea about... Oh, yeah. Yeah. Well, it's there's difficulties in any expression.

**Questioner:** There are challenges, but they do not have to be labeled as difficulties. Challenge is good. Challenge is good. I can see that.

**Bashar:** So, are you saying that you feel you are not in that context following through with the things that excite you? You are not really allowing yourself to manifest the fullest version of the idea of the excitement that you get excited about the concept but not about the doing?

**Questioner:** Uh no, I don't think it's that. I think it's maybe trying to do it all and just be like I said before being too diffuse about it.

**Bashar:** Then perhaps change your definition about what's going on and don't worry about having enough time to do it all. Anything that is really important for you to do in your life, you will have time to do. That's how it works. Beautiful. So, if you relax into that and just take it one step at a time and stay in the now and do the things that excite you the most all the way through as best as you can, everything else will fall into automatic order and bring with it all the time necessary for you to do those things. The things that don't remain, the things that don't bring enough time for you to do them don't need to be done or they will be done later. Just follow your bliss like Joseph Campbell. Yes. Because it is the actual mechanical principle that is the driving engine and the organizing principle of everything else that happens and needs to happen in your life. Anything you need to do, any manifestation of your excitement that needs to be undertaken by you, if you simply at any given moment act on the most exciting one of them that you can act on, all the others automatically take their cue from that and arrange themselves synchronistically to bring with them the appropriate amount of time that it takes for them to be done. It's automatically arranged. You don't have to worry about having enough time for all these things or scattering yourself. Just do whatever it is you want to do at any given moment that's representative of your true joy and you will be shown what time needs to be given to any other thing.

**Bashar:** The present moment you're saying the present moment. Yes. That's all there is. That's all there is. If you attempt to stretch yourself beyond the present moment, then when those things come looking for you, they won't find anybody at home. You have to stay where you are and let them come to you. Let them show you what is important to be done now by the degree of excitement they bring with them and the amount of capability they bring with them for you to do something about them.

**Questioner:** My experience with abduction, my uncoveries of that, I seem to have been involved with 2 types of aliens:

1. The gray EBEs 
2. what I call the unseen Ethereans who in a dream state would help me to exercise my chakras and so on.

I kind of suspect that they're probably you guys, these unseen Ethereans.

**Bashar:** No, it is not our species in that sense. The unseen Ethereans are what would be called the Founders.

**Questioner:** Are these like can they translate into Christian angels, the solar deity?

**Bashar:** No, they are not the level of the angels, but they are the Founders.

We are being to some degree at this particular moment purposely mysterious about this to draw you into a certain direction of thought. That's interesting. They are the ones that... where fear was involved with the little Grays, the involvement with the Ethereans is always spiritual oriented and delightful. One aspect of the Founders is what you are experiencing. They have several aspects, several facets, several faces. What you are remembering as the ethereal aspect is but one face of the Founders. 

When you go to sleep, ask for more conscious recognition and memory. Just ask and see what you get.

