---
title: "The eye of the needle"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1996-08-09
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 205
tags: ['']
---



**Bashar:** The eye of the hurricane is like how 2020 would be chaotic—like you are being surrounded by a storm. 

We encourage you to stay in the center where things are calm so that you can deal with all of the happenings that you may not be used to, that may seem chaotic all around you, swirling all around you, thundering all around you. But by remaining in that center, in the calm space, you will be able to handle what comes.

Now we are addressing the idea of the "eye of the needle," for this is the center point energetically of this passage that you are experiencing right now. As we said during the "eye of the storm," your year of 2020 would be crazy, it would be nuts. You are now experiencing things you thought you would not experience in your lifetime. Therefore, it is most important to understand a few of the things that have created this circumstance and the things that you need to do to pass through the eye of the needle and come out the other side, stripping away those things that are no longer you, truly letting them go so that you can emerge on the other side of this passage as more of your true self.

That also implies the idea of a higher ability to eventually experience contact with us. For without stripping the things away, you will not fit through this narrow passage of the eye of the needle sufficiently to be able to interact with us clearly on the other side.

We list 3 things that are of paramount importance now:

 <!-- with regard to the circumstance as it exists and why this has come about: -->

### 1. **Fear-Based Beliefs and Immunity**

We said that everything would change in the fall of 2016. In many ways socially, politically, and economically, it has. 

Now that you are in the center of it, the pandemic is from the changes caused by fear-based beliefs which have spread around your planet again socially and politically.

This has depressed the collective immune system of the people of your world.

The uncertainty, the stress, the negativity that has been put out from various sources on your planet around the globe has stressed the energetic and physiological immune system of the people of your world to the degree where opportunistic organisms, such as viruses, can more readily take hold and spread more quickly, more easily around the globe.

So, the idea in passing through the eye of the needle is to truly let go of being affected by what others may be putting out that is vibrationally incompatible with what you prefer to be and the world you prefer to experience. Even though you may still hear them and see them, they do not have to affect you until you agree to be affected. This is an important time for you to truly get in touch with, get a hold of, your own fear-based belief systems, let them go, and replace them with ones that are strong and in alignment with who you are, so that your immunity will not be affected in the way that it has been during this circumstance.

You will find that this depression of the collective energetic consciousness and physiological immune system will continue for a little while, but as we said, you are in the center now of this passage. The amount of time you have already spent in it will approximately be the amount of time you will continue to spend in it until such time as you arrive on the other side of this passage. Even though the analogy of the eye of a needle may seem that the passage through the eye would be short, remember that you exist in a world of SpaceTime, and therefore things will stretch out a little bit, giving you the opportunity to work with your belief systems over the course of a few months before the eye and after the eye. This gives you time to get in touch with these things, to go through the processes you need to go through, and to let go of the things that no longer serve you.

But again, I say to you, you have to remember that what you do not let go of that is vibrationally incompatible with the world you prefer—and in particular with regard to contact with us and other beings like us—you will find that if you do not let them go, once you arrive on the other side of the eye of the needle, it may be more challenging for us to make connections with you. You may find us fading in and out; you may find that there are certain times when it will not be possible for us to come through to the variety of versions of Earth that are not stripping themselves cleaner than the others, allowing us to then match the frequencies with you that would be representative of continued contact. So there will be consequences of holding on to belief systems that don't serve you with regard to contact on the other side of the eye of the needle.

2.  **Ecological Destruction:** The second thing that is important to understand that brought about the circumstance you are experiencing with regard to the pandemic again has to do with your relationship to Earth and the destruction that Humanity has created in many of the ecosystems, ecological niches upon the Earth. Because when you destroy certain ecological systems that contain these viruses, and they are no longer held in check by the system that was there naturally maintaining themselves within that environment, within the animals that are now depleted because their ecological environment has been destroyed, you are affording the virus more opportunity to find new hosts—which means you—for they can no longer find sufficient hosts in the animal kingdom or the tree kingdom to contain them within those ecological environments. So you have removed, through massive destruction of ecological systems, the barriers and the environments that would contain the viruses you are now experiencing.

This goes hand in hand with the idea of fear-based belief systems, the ideas of lack, insufficiency, the idea of rampant destruction, the idea of disconnection from Nature. This has had a paramount effect on your experience with the idea of opportunistic organisms that have created and can create more pandemics on your planet until such time as you allow yourselves, in the world in which you prefer to exist, to take the actions necessary to restore some of those systems and bring balance back to your world.

3.  **Isolation as Compression/Transformation:** The third thing that we will address regarding the present situation that can be used in a very powerful and positive way is the fact that you have now placed yourselves in a type of isolation environment. This will be equivalent to the idea of compression that we have spoken about before, this sequestering of the compression, so that you can transform the energy not into depression, but into compression—isolating yourselves, withdrawing yourselves into the center of your being so that you may have the time and the space and the environment to stay within yourselves and process and let go of those fear-based belief systems you have been carrying with you like a disease for so many years in your lives.

It is time to truly strip yourselves of those fear-based belief systems, going through whatever processes of imagination and creativity and positive, powerful love for yourselves and each other that you can muster during this time, to allow yourselves to really get in touch with your indestructible core and remove the surface features that would be representative of other belief systems that belong to other people that have nothing to do with you. Take this time of sequestering, take this time of isolation, take this time of distancing, take this time of withdrawing into your own environments so that you may be cocooned in a way and in a manner most conducive to emerging on the other side of the eye of the needle as the beautiful butterflies that you all are within. Find your true selves and transform yourselves into these new beings that are sparkling clean and not surrounded by a mist of fear-based beliefs, for they will not pass easily through the eye of the needle, and neither will you if you do not let them go.

***

### **The Five-Step Process for Passing Through the Eye of the Needle**

**Bashar:**
Now we would like to introduce a process that you can utilize in your sequestering, in your cocoon, that can help you accelerate your ability to divest yourself of those beliefs that don't belong to you, that are out of alignment with you, so make it easier to pass through this eye of the needle unscathed and come out the other side into a vibrational reality that is more conducive to the type of experience you prefer and more conducive to the continuation of contact with us and others like us.

It is a five-step process. Very simple, but some of you may find it to be quite challenging because you are not used to doing these things on a daily basis. But now you have the time to do so, and we would encourage you strongly to take the time to go through these five steps for yourself to help you streamline and let go of those things that will not serve you and will not allow you to pass through the eye of the needle quickly and easily and smoothly and effortlessly and joyfully.

Pay attention now to this particular process, this particular powerful permission slip of the five steps of passing through the eye of the needle with joy, with freedom, with true self-empowerment.

**Step Number One:**
Even though up to this point, from many different sources, you may have experienced people who have done things, said things that are vibrationally incompatible with the reality you prefer; even though you may have found that you are capable of being triggered with your own fear-based belief systems into being someone that you truly don't prefer to be, giving over to judgment, to anger, to fear, to sadness—all of the ideas and experiences that you do not need to experience further—you must allow yourself fully to embrace the first step, and that is to **forgive**.

Forgive all who have transgressed against you. No more does resistance work. No more does hanging on to the past in that sense work. No more does the idea of expecting someone else to fix you, to change you. No more do you need to wait for those to see the error of their ways for you to move forward in freedom and power. Do not wait for them to change. Do not wait for apologies for what they've done. Forgive them and be free. Let go of regrets. Let go of any need for anyone else to give you permission in any way, shape, or form to move forward through the eye of the needle. Forgive them all, no matter what they have done.

**Step Number Two:**
The second step is to **forgive yourself** for putting yourself in any position that allowed you to experience the frustration, the anger, the regret, the sorrows. Do not hold on to them; let them go. You do not need them anymore. Do not judge yourselves for what you have done; it has all brought you to this point. Forgive yourself completely, freely. After you have forgiven everyone else for anything they have ever said or done, you must move on from that state to a different state. It is imperative in order to get through the eye of the needle. You even have a version of these two steps in some of your own religious teachings (such as The Lord's Prayer: "forgive yourself as you forgive others who have trespassed against you"). Forgiveness is the key that will allow passage through the eye in the smoothest possible way. So forgive yourself after you have forgiven others.

**Step Number Three:**
Step three is to begin to allow yourself to then truly no longer inform yourself from your past self. You may learn lessons from the past, but no longer wallow in the idea of past events, the past self, and how the past self would have reacted to things, for that is no longer you. Let go of the negative reactions, the negative behaviors of the past self. Do not inform your future from your past behaviors, from your past emotions, from your past thoughts, from your past experiences. Learn from them and bring the knowledge and understanding you have gained from that, but do not *be* that. Be an observer now of the past, not a participant in the past. Just observe only those elements that you require to apply to your lessons in life so that you will not repeat those thoughts, emotions, behaviors, and experiences. Let go of that personality; it is no longer you.

**Step Number Four:**
Begin then to inform yourself not from the past, but from your **future self**. It is calling to you on the other side of the eye of the needle. Heed the call. Move forward in the way your future self would imagine. Visualize that future version of you. Behave, feel, think as that future self. You all have future selves from your linear SpaceTime perspective. Take advantage of the fact that you have set yourself up this way in SpaceTime, that you have anchored yourself into the future and that it is pulling you toward it through the eye of the needle. Heed it, listen to it. The higher mind calls you through passion. Follow the formula, for that is what the future self does every day and every moment that it can. There is no other breath that it takes, there is no other action that it takes other than that which is aligned with the formula of acting on your passion to the best you can with no insistence, no assumption of the outcome, and remaining choosing to remain in a positive state so that you can receive the benefit of whatever manifests. And even if that should be something you objectively don't prefer, you know it's there for a reason, and let it serve you by knowing that. Let it show you how it serves you just by remaining in the state that you know it is not an accident, that it is there for a reason that serves you. The future self is calling on the other side of the eye of the needle. Let it pull you through easily, swiftly, effortlessly. Anchor to the Future Self. Inform yourself from the future you, not the past any longer.

**Step Number Five:**
Finally, doing all of this—forgiving all others, forgiving yourself, letting go of the past personality, and informing yourself from the future version of you—you can then allow yourself to be fully in the **present** as you pass through the eye of the needle and beyond. And in that present, in this present time, you will be more and more effortlessly, in an accelerated way, the true you, the core of your being, with all of the fear-based beliefs stripping away, streamlining you, leaving your raw essence, your indestructible core. The present self, the now self, living more in the now and experiencing SpaceTime as more malleable, more flexible, more fluid as you become closer and closer bonding with a vibration in harmony with your higher Mind and Spirit and acting upon the Earth in that manner.

It is absolutely of paramount importance, if you wish to pass through the eye of the needle and maintain your connection and contact with us and others like us, that you strip away now, in this time, these things that no longer serve you. This is not a warning; do not receive this in a negative way. This is a description of how you can be far more empowered and far more free and far more joyful than you have ever been in your lives if you would but let go of those things that anchor you to the you you are not, and cut those ties and snap those cords and free yourself from those chains so that you may pass freely, effortlessly, and joyfully through the eye of the needle in this time of compression and centering and going within to find, to discover, and then eventually express the true beauty of your beings, of your inner light.

And we leave you with this saying:
*"They who dwell in fear and darkness, flow to them your unconditional love so that their Inner Light may awaken and that they may truly serve all beings on Earth once again."*

Forgive and move on. Forgive and let go. Forgive and be free.

All our unconditional love to you all this day. We now, in return for you allowing us to share this powerful transformational permission slip with you, ask: In what way may we continue to be of service to you? You may begin, if you wish, with your questions.

***

### **Q&A Session 1: The Virus, Timelines, and Contact**

**Questioner 1:** Hey Bashar, great to speak with you again.
**Bashar:** And you as well. Please proceed however your imagination so desires. What would you like to discuss with us this day?

**Questioner 1:** Well yeah, obviously I think you know, you were pretty much on the mark when you said uh 2020 was going to be nuts and crazy, but we didn't realize how much.
**Bashar:** Well yes, we couldn't necessarily give you too much information or we would have caused a panic.

**Questioner 1:** Yeah, well there's a lot of panic now. But um, I wanted to ask about the virus specifically. Um, was it bio-engineered or was it just a natural occurrence?
**Bashar:** Natural occurrence. It is the result of the destruction of various ecosystems on your planet that allow the virus that would naturally be contained in that ecosystem to spread farther than it normally would and find new hosts, because many of its own hosts, which would be the animals in the ecosystem, have been eliminated through the destruction of the ecosystem. Therefore, viruses will then seek out new niches to inhabit, which will now include humanity.

**Questioner 1:** So what's the solution to this? Because a lot of people, um, people like Bill Gates have been talking about vaccinating the planet, which there's quite a lot of us who don't agree with that. So what is the solution?
**Bashar:** Well, we cannot necessarily tell you which way to go; we will have to leave that up to you in your own choices. But obviously, since we are talking about the destruction of certain ecological systems, one solution would be the restoration of those systems rather than the continued destruction on your planet. Also, the reduction of fear-based belief systems, negative energy that is causing stress around your world since 2016, has diminished the immune system of most people on your planet by being put in exceedingly stressful situations of uncertainty. Therefore, a rebalancing of the energy and an outputting of more positive energy would also be of some assistance to the collective consciousness so that the immune system will not be compromised in the way that it has been for the past several years.

**Questioner 1:** So are some people have been using vitamin C and quinine and things like that...
**Bashar:** I cannot discuss specific remedies that go into health issues because we are not allowed to discuss health issues in the physical sense of giving you cures, okay? Now, as we have said previously, however, you can always begin with information we have already delivered on that subject, which means: make sure that you are detoxified as much as you possibly can so that at the very least the nutrients that you do manage to put in your bodies will actually take hold in the cellular structure and allow your body to repair itself as best as it possibly can in the circumstances and strengthen your immune system. So detoxification of the pollutants that exist in your society that then get lodged in your cell structures and prevent nutrients from being absorbed would be the first step, so that whatever you do intake will remain in your cellular structure, will be able to even get into your cellular structure by being as thoroughly detoxified as you possibly can be. That's all we are allowed to say about the idea of any particular physiological remedying that may go on in your system. Other than that, we cannot advise for the idea of health issues with respect to remedies and cures, okay?

**Questioner 1:** Thank you for that. Um, and in terms of like the Essani Collective, you know, I mean, how... and the civilizations you're aware of watching this... uh, but it feels like we're in some sort of reality TV show. So in a sense...
**Bashar:** You are. Let's call it Earth 2020. So what do they make of this virus episode?

**Questioner 1:** Could you ask the collective?
**Bashar:** As we have already said, we recognize that you are going through what we call the eye of the needle. It is an important time of compression. The fact that you have created a situation where you are isolating yourselves, sequestering yourselves, distancing yourselves, gives you a sparkling opportunity to go within, to reassess your belief systems, to strip away those that don't serve you so that you may in fact be capable of more effortlessly passing through what we call the eye of the needle to the other side. This is the midpoint, this is the crossing point. This is why we said 2020 was a very pivotal year in terms of what it is that is potentially possible and probable for you to experience on the other side of this. So it is an opportunity for you to strip away those things that are not you. Let go, let go, let go of the past ideas. Learn from them but don't anchor to them. Don't repeat the ideas of what you used to be, but instead allow yourselves, as we said, to be informed by your future selves so that you can be guided effortlessly through this very, very narrow eye of the needle, which will not allow things that are not you to pass even easily through it. So streamlining yourselves down by letting go of those belief systems that do not serve you and adopting only those ones that are true for you will be the whole point of what's going on in the center of this transformational period, passing through the eye of the needle.

**Questioner 1:** Thank you for that. And when do you see this like virus ending?
**Bashar:** As long as it has already been going on in your general awareness—about three and a half months of your time—will be the amount of time on the other side of this particular point as well, before you will find yourselves going into a state where you feel that things are settling down somewhat. This doesn't mean that it may not reoccur, but the idea is that this passage is about half a year long and you are in the middle of it.

**Questioner 1:** Okay. And I... I feel kind of like when you said 2020 was going to be crazy, I feel like there's a lot more to come.
**Bashar:** And there will be. But again, how you experience it depends upon what it is you let go of, so that when you get on the other side of the eye of the needle, the other side of that passage, you'll be able to handle whatever it is that does crop up from that point forward in a much more effective and positive way.

**Questioner 1:** Would one of the things that may come up be... as you read the energy now, um, would it be like a prelude to maybe President Trump announcing without a doubt that we're in contact with extraterrestrial?
**Bashar:** We cannot make this prediction, okay?

**Questioner 1:** Thank you for that. Um, the other thing I wanted to ask was, um, in terms of the actual name of it, Coronavirus. Obviously, Corona means Crown. So is this in any way... Corona means Halo?
**Bashar:** Halo, sorry. Like the halo, the corona of the sun? Yes, it is named that way because of the halo of protrusions around the virus.

**Questioner 1:** All right. Okay. So in terms of the people who are, say, experiencing a lot of different realities all at once at the moment. Sometimes it feels like it's fake, all this. Sometimes it feels very real. It's in the middle. Is that because of all the parallel realities converging?
**Bashar:** Yes. This is the time, and we will be in an upcoming transmission talking more specifically about this idea of the converging parallel realities in a transmission soon called *The Parallel Reality Wheel*, to give you more understanding and conscious awareness and efficacy in working with all the different overlapping parallel reality versions of Earth you are now experiencing in this transitional period.

**Questioner 1:** Yes. And in terms of the human trafficking that that Donald Trump's trying to eradicate now, is that, um, partly linked to...
**Bashar:** Cannot comment on your political situation to that degree, okay?

**Questioner 1:** In terms of the hybrid children, is there anything they can do for us to help us?
**Bashar:** Anything they are doing, everything that they possibly can. Please, all of you, understand this very important point: We are all doing everything that can already be done. We are giving you all the assistance we can possibly be allowed to give you. You don't have to ask for more than you're being given. You simply have to become more aware of what it is you're already getting.

**Questioner 1:** Right. It feels like there's a huge awakening taking place.
**Bashar:** There is.

**Questioner 1:** Is that... is that the whole point of this?
**Bashar:** It is the whole point. Become more of yourself through this transformation. How you do it is up to you, but we would strongly encourage you, as we always have, to let go of those things that are not you, those fear-based beliefs, to streamline yourself so that any transformation and any transitional passage can be experienced in the most effortless way. It's about discovering yourself from a new point of view.

**Questioner 1:** Thank you. There's a lot of fear coming from like the media and they're constantly feeding it. So what would be some good solutions to overcome that?
**Bashar:** As we have already said, let go of the idea of matching the frequencies of fear-based belief systems. Recognize, through your own honest self-investigation and discernment, what is and isn't relevant for the reality that you prefer. You have the ability to choose. Make a decision. What do you expect? A reality in terms of what we prefer coming out of the other side of this? What can we expect to see? Because it will still take time. It will still take time. But this is the opportunity to practice knowing how to live in the reality you prefer through the actions that you take that would be representative of the actions you would be taking if you already lived in that reality. So it's about people allowing themselves to let their behavior be more truly reflective and representative of the reality they prefer to live in so that they can navigate themselves through the different parallels to one that is more reflective and representative of the actions they are taking right now.

**Questioner 1:** Yeah, I've noticed this. That I've been... I've been quite excited in some ways through all this and observing. I've not been really entering the fear really, and I've just felt like I've been observing it. A neutral place is a good place to be.
**Bashar:** Then you are in the balance point and can make decisions more clearly by not allowing yourself to necessarily succumb to the vibrations you don't prefer, recognizing more clearly, more consciously, what is going on and making the decisions that are appropriate for the person you prefer to be, recognizing that those that don't match belong to another reality that you don't live in.

**Questioner 1:** Yes. And you know, in 2016, when you're in the State of the Union seminar, when your father passed on the prediction about the being in the next four years from then, a terrorist attack on a global level... is this in any way linked to that? Because he also mentioned an economic collapse soon after that.
**Bashar:** It is somewhat connected, but again, we will not make predictions at this time, okay?

**Questioner 1:** Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for your time. And um, say hello to my hybrid kids.
**Bashar:** You may do so as well. Thank you. Should I? And to you, good day. Good day.

***

### **Q&A Session 2: Death, Dimensions, and Hybrid Children**

**Questioner 2:** I've missed being in connection with you this way, so I have four questions written down, but please feel free to tell me to stop.
**Bashar:** Absolutely. You can always rely on us.

**Questioner 2:** The first question is around death. Yes. So I understand what you've taught us about each slice of reality and that we're just moving from slice to slice. Yes. But I'm just really curious about what that slice of reality is when we transition. What is that next reality and what kind of dimension it is? And do we continue being the entity as we know of ourselves here?
**Bashar:** No, no, no. You are more than what you are as a physical personality. You will retain that quality, you will retain that experience, you'll retain that information, but you will be more than that. In much the same way that you retain the experience and information you picked up in going through earlier grades of school, but you are beyond that now. You are an adult as opposed to a child, even though the child still exists within your experience of yourself, you don't define yourself as only being the child anymore. So similarly, when you expand back into the idea of your spirit self, it's like growing up and retaining your childhood experiences and memories and understandings of what you've learned, but you are more than that and see things from a higher point of view, a broader perspective that allows you to utilize the experience in a more expanded way. Remember that it's still you overall; it's always happening to you. But you will recognize yourself as more than you thought yourself to be here in physical reality, just as you now think of yourself as more than the child you used to be.

**Questioner 2:** Uh-huh. And so when the transition... when once we transition to the other dimension, it could also be a physical or a non-physical or a semi-physical?
**Bashar:** Well, physicality only goes so far in terms of dimensionality. You are shifting from third density to fourth density, and that is all within the idea of the fourth dimensional reality of space and time. But when you actually transition to a higher frequency than that, into fifth density and into the spirit realm and higher forms of vibration, you actually are crossing the threshold from one dimension—the fourth dimension of space and time—into the fifth dimension of non-physical reality. Therefore, you will experience things in a very different way. Time and space will be much more malleable and flexible and not as rigid or crystallized as you experience it to be in physical reality, which does have a border to it, and it ends at the edge of the fourth dimension, which is also fourth density, which is what you're transitioning into now—a higher state of physical reality. But beyond that, you have to go into non-physical reality, or at least not physical reality as you understand it now in your SpaceTime Matrix.

**Questioner 2:** Yes. But does one go there and then decide to actually enter fourth density again? Is it possible?
**Bashar:** You can create that experience, but remember, everything exists all at once. So you're just creating an experience of going back into fourth density, but all that actually is is a shift of perspective, because that reality already exists. That experience, in a sense, is already set up as a structure, but you can have the decision and make the choice as to whether you want to focus on that particular experiential structure or whether you wish to focus on something different, because all of those options are available to you at the same time.

**Questioner 2:** And so are the higher dimensions even right?
**Bashar:** Yes, of course. 8, 9, 10. So they're all there, but they're all here and now. They're all here.

**Questioner 2:** Yes. But somehow from where I have chosen to be in this dimension, the next transition is to the fifth and not to the 10th, for example.
**Bashar:** Well, again, you may cross a threshold from the fourth to the fifth just to give yourself a sense of transition from this particular experience. But in the idea of stepping across that threshold, you will also automatically be given the opportunity to go to the 10th if you wish.

**Questioner 2:** Wow. And does that... does that transition, or the result of the transition, somehow is affected by how I've lived this life, how I've experienced this life? Just like how I am now based on how I've lived my childhood?
**Bashar:** In some sense, yes. But in this day and age, you have much more awareness as a society that you do have the freedom to choose, whereas past societies may not have known that as clearly and then may have had things happen seemingly automatically that were still choices, but they may have not necessarily been absolutely conscious choices to experience certain things, or they may have not been as aware of all the choices they had in the way that all of you are now because of your exploration of spirituality and consciousness. So it may be a little bit easier for you to be aware of the choices you have in this day and age than used to be true of past eras on your planet historically.

**Questioner 2:** Yes. Got it. Got it. So my second question is based on something you've told us about how there are lots of spaceships around and sometimes they just shift their frequency so that we can't see them. Yes. So is that frequency just beyond the frequency that our eyes can see?
**Bashar:** Sometimes. Sometimes it's such a high frequency that you will not necessarily see them even if you shifted to the frequency above your physical reality. It just depends on what they're doing and where they are at in that frequency spectrum.

**Questioner 2:** Right. And so they... those that are doing whatever frequencies or changing whatever frequencies, they are able to see? So they have the ability to see at the frequency? Maybe and maybe not?
**Bashar:** Remember, the idea of the shifting of frequencies isn't always an intentional thing. It may just be part and parcel of what they're doing. Therefore, they may shift their frequency automatically to do what it is they're focused on doing and may have absolutely no awareness of you.

**Questioner 2:** Oh, okay. Because they don't need to.
**Bashar:** Sure. Sure. So I'm not saying that's always the case. It simply may be in the same way that you may be driving a car and passing through a neighborhood and you don't necessarily have to be aware of who is in the houses that you're passing just to get where you're going.

**Questioner 2:** Yes, exactly what I thought. Great. Great. Thank you. So a few years ago when I met you for a session, you mentioned that I asked if I had hybrid children, and you mentioned that I am myself a multi-dimensionally nested hybrid being acting as a probe. Another version of myself that is a hybrid being.
**Bashar:** Yes, of the Yel. And yes, this is common for many of you.

**Questioner 2:** Yes. And you mentioned that she might decide or not to come, and I'm wondering if at this point the decision has been made and if we will meet.
**Bashar:** The probability has increased, but it is not finalized. Let's just say right now it's above 80% that you will meet.

**Questioner 2:** Above 80%? Ah, yay! Great. So last question: This virus, Coronavirus situation that we have here, has it accelerated open contact? And if it has, at the... reading the energy, what is the likely outcome of the year?
**Bashar:** You are passing through the eye of the needle, as we have called it, and it completely depends on what you do with this time of passage as to whether or not you will experience an acceleration or a deceleration of the idea of contact.

**Questioner 2:** Okay. So at the same time, I'm feeling during this time, as you called the eye of the needle, I'm feeling some cellular level body changes at night when I'm sleeping. Is that...?
**Bashar:** Yes, it's part and parcel because you have to let go and strip yourselves free of anything now, more importantly than ever before, that simply does not resonate with your vibrational compatibility in order to be able to pass effortlessly through the eye of the needle.

**Questioner 2:** Yes. Thank you. I really feel that. I'm so happy that you are.
**Bashar:** It is our passion and our pleasure. Thank you. And good day to you.

***

### **Q&A Session 3: Timeline Shifts and Co-Creation**

**Questioner 3:** Hello Bashar and to you good day. Thanks for being here. Sometime last year you said 2020 was going to be crazy. Did you know we were going to take a timeline, let's say, to hell? To that awareness, what did you have in mind?
**Bashar:** We understood that it was going to be extremely different, but we could not necessarily give you details without causing a panic.

**Questioner 3:** I see. But since we're co-creating our reality, like you've been saying for the past couple of decades, we must have on some level created this.
**Bashar:** Yes, of course.

**Questioner 3:** But no one expected it coming.
**Bashar:** Well, actually, that's not true. There were many on your planet that saw this coming from a long way away because they understand the mechanism that is working at hand here in a variety of levels. As we have said, the idea is multifold, but one of the more important ones is that the destruction of the ecological systems on your planet have given the idea of viruses that inhabit those systems the ability to go beyond their borders. Therefore, this is in some sense the consequence of the destruction of the natural ecological systems of your planet, and therefore a rebalancing is necessary. But nevertheless, you can still use this in a positive way, and you have begun to do so through the opportunities of isolation and sequestering yourself and social distancing. It gives you an opportunity to go into a kind of monastic experience where you can take the time to examine and evaluate your belief systems and truly let go of the ones that don't serve you. Because this pivotal moment we have labeled the "eye of the needle," and without letting go of those fear-based beliefs, it will not be easy for you to pass through that very narrow eye of the needle as the self you really need to be on the other side to experience more acceleration in a positive direction. So this is all about taking the time and taking advantage of what you have created, whether it was created from negativity or positivity, to make sure that you are letting go of the self you no longer need to be that no longer serves you, and streamline yourself down to the very core and essential self that will then be capable of more effortlessly passing through this passageway we have called the eye of the needle.

**Questioner 3:** So when you say you're talking to the individual and the collective mind...
**Bashar:** I am. And so are the rest of my friends watching us and seeing if we can make this passage through the eye.

**Questioner 3:** Or is there an assistance happening there?
**Bashar:** There is always an assistance, although some are also watching.

**Questioner 3:** So will this passage through the eye of the needle be an actual acceleration to First Contact?
**Bashar:** Depends on what you do with it. Again, how you go through the eye will determine whether the idea of contact accelerates for some or decelerates for some. It depends on what you do with this moment. This is why this moment, as we have said, is pivotal and so absolutely crucial.

**Questioner 3:** Are there timelines of Earth where this has not happened?
**Bashar:** Absolutely.

**Questioner 3:** And there's no way to wake up tomorrow and say we can be part of that timeline? Is there?
**Bashar:** There is always a way. But what are the probabilities? Since you have chosen to go through this experience, you will find again that while it may be possible, the probability may be more likely that you will go through the process with everyone else in your own way. But again, it matters not, because the way you choose to go through it will determine what you experience on the other side of the passage.

**Questioner 3:** Right. So you're with us in this timeline, but are there timelines where you are also channeling to another Earth?
**Bashar:** Yes, of course. And there are timelines where we're not channeling to Earth at all.

**Questioner 3:** But the timelines you're channeling to Earth, is that through one conscious being we call Bashar, or are there aspects of you that are different in different timelines?
**Bashar:** Some of them will recognize what you recognize as the idea of Bashar. Some of them will recognize something different as may be appropriate for their reality and their understanding.

**Questioner 3:** But I'm asking you, are you aware of your channelings in those other timeline realities?
**Bashar:** When I need to be. Yes. I don't always need to be.

**Questioner 3:** So I'm just trying to get a sense of the consciousness that you are. Multi-dimensional, multifaceted, but present in the moment you're in. Is that what you're saying?
**Bashar:** Yes. But the moment we are in may sometimes be multi-dimensionally experienced.

***

### **Q&A Session 4: Physics, Speed of Light, and Vibration**

**Questioner 3:** Another question about a slightly different subject, and it's something I've been thinking about, is Einstein in physics where they say that when you reach the speed of light, yes, there's no time. If light is coming from, let's say, five light-years away, does that mean when it reaches here we're actually seeing light that has arrived that's not five years from the past?
**Bashar:** No. You are still seeing the idea of the light that existed five years ago when it left its origin point. You are mixing two different concepts up. Traveling, moving through spacetime, is what creates what your scientists refer to as time dilation. Let me put it in a very simplified form: You have a 100% spacetime. If you are not moving very much in space, then most of that 100% is experienced as time. But if you're moving through more space, then less of that 100% experience is experienced as time. You can only have the 100%. So if you're moving through space at 50% of the capacity, then you only experience 50% of the time. And if you are moving at 99% of the capacity of space, you only experience 1% of the time. You can't experience more than 100% total of space or time, so they have to take turns sharing that amount of 100%, depending upon how much space you're occupying or how much time you're occupying. Do you understand?

**Questioner 3:** I do. I get that. That clears it up. Now, as we raise our molecular cellular vibration, we are actually moving closer to the speed of light in some senses, although the vibration again that you're referring to is slightly different than what we're referring to as the speed of light in your physical reality. It's a different vector. What is the vibration of cellular mass as it starts to ascend in frequency in the body and with the body? Can you tell us? You mean when it crosses the threshold from physical to non-physical reality or back and forth?
**Bashar:** Yes, yes, yes. 333,000 cycles per second is the threshold barrier and border between physical and non-physical reality. But that 333,000 cycles per second is a measurement of a certain kind of vibrational frequency that your scientists don't even know about yet. But we can get there by the mechanisms or the untapped software in our minds or brains. You get there by allowing yourself to align with the formula that we have always given all of you. That's why we have distilled the formula for you, because it is a description of the structure of existence and how it operates in your physical reality. So by acting on your passion every moment that you can to the best of your ability, with no insistence or assumption of the outcome, and remaining in a positive vibrational state no matter what manifests, you are literally in alignment with an accelerated energy that will constantly allow you to continue to expand. That's why we give you the formula. It is literally an instruction manual no different than any instruction manual you would be given to learn to operate a piece of machinery. This is literally a description of the nature and structure of existence encapsulated and distilled down into a simple four-step formula.

***

### **Q&A Session 5: Duration of Crisis and Assistance**

**Questioner 3:** I just want to ask if you're seeing a probable future for us. How long do you think it will be for this crisis to last?
**Bashar:** You are about halfway through. That's why we are talking about the eye of the needle at this time. You have experienced this in a concentrated form for about 3 to 3 and a half months. It will continue roughly for another 3 to 3 and a half months. But again, there may be other things that will happen beyond that. There may even be reoccurrences of this for some individuals. But in general, the passage you are going through now has been going on for about one quarter of your year and will continue for about another quarter of your year, and then you will see what it is that you chose to be on the other side, and that will take you forward depending upon how much you were capable of stripping away of those things that are no longer relevant for the you you prefer to be.

**Questioner 3:** And as far as contact, First Contact or contact with the extraterrestrial beings, are they just waiting or are they assisting somehow?
**Bashar:** You are always being given assistance, but again, we all know that the choice is in your hands. Therefore, we are seeing what it is you choose. But we are not waiting. We always give all the assistance we can possibly give. We cannot give you any more assistance than you're already being given. So no one needs to ask for more assistance. You need to pay attention to the assistance you're already getting.

**Questioner 3:** Can you describe the assistance that we're getting in case we're not paying attention to it?
**Bashar:** Some of the assistance is in the idea of the adjustment of certain frequencies of energy that exist in the vortices around your planet to make it more smooth, shall we say, for you to go through transformation, so it's not so bumpy, I believe you would call it. So we are attempting to smooth out the vibrational wavelengths of many of the collective vortices on your planet to make the ride a little bit more smooth. On the other hand, I have just given you an example of assistance by telling you once again about the formula.

**Questioner 3:** Right. Is there anything else that we could do? Do you have any recommendations for supplements or exercises or breathing types?
**Bashar:** What you are talking about are all the things we have always labeled as "permission slips," and we believe you understand that concept. So whatever it is you are attracted to, you are attracted to because your belief system at that moment of the attraction says, "This will work for you."

**Questioner 3:** I do have to say that the psychic space or the dream time reality seems to me to be more vivid now. There seems... that's part of the transformation is to break down the walls of solidity of the concept of physical reality and realize that you are living a dream. Therefore, it will become a little bit more illusionary. So I would say looking at being awake in the dream, being as lucid as we can, is part of this transition you're talking about.
**Bashar:** Absolutely.

**Questioner 3:** And is there certain things we could look for in that dream world as an assistant, a guide?
**Bashar:** Follow the formula. Synchronicity is the organizing principle that will guide you.

**Questioner 3:** What's happening on your world? As you observe our reality, is there sort of a similar parallel crisis or turning point in the Essani there?
**Bashar:** There are always turning points and challenges, but there are no crises. We do not experience things in a fear-based way. So we wouldn't say this is a crisis either, in a sense. Then it depends on how you use it. You can recognize that certain things may have contributed to this particular event from a negative point of view, and if you wish to say, "Well, then that causes a crisis," you can. But at the same time, everything can be used to serve double duty. So it depends on how you use it. We wouldn't necessarily suggest that you label it a crisis if you want to use it in a positive way.

**Questioner 3:** Is there something going on paralleling all existence at this point because we are going through the eye of the needle? Are other civilizations doing similar things?
**Bashar:** Yes. Some in parallel realities, some in their own realities that have nothing at all to do with you in terms of how it looks. But many civilizations go through their own eye of the needle in a variety of ways, and some do not have that experience. It just depends on the civilization and the theme they are exploring.

**Questioner 3:** And what about your civilization? Can you describe one of your eye of the needle moments?
**Bashar:** One of our eye of the needle moments in what you would call our past history would be the 3-Day Awakening that happened to us when Shakana existed on our planet and allowed us to connect telepathically within that 3-day period, which changed everything in our world.

**Questioner 3:** Is a similar thing possible here?
**Bashar:** It is possible, but not probable because of the nature of the cycles of the Earth. You will go through a particular process, and do not in any way, shape, or form deny the validity of that process. You can always render down the need for more processes by taking the "threshold of believability" test that we have shared with all of you in the past to make sure that you are streamlining yourself down to just the essential processes you need. But you will never eliminate them because process is the point of experiencing physical reality, and some processes are necessary for you to rediscover yourself from a new point of view. So don't eliminate all processes, but you can streamline them down to just those essential ones. And when you have done so, then embrace them, because it is those processes that will teach you everything you need to know about who you truly are and how to live in your reality in a much more joyful, creative way.

**Questioner 3:** Right. I do get the sense when you talk about that three-day period of a vibrational possibility that some people could access.
**Bashar:** Some may. But again, don't be desperate about it. Just render down the processes to the least amount that you need and embrace the ones that remain, for they will serve you.

**Questioner 3:** But just to wrap up, our vibration is shifting at this moment due to this time. For those that are using it in a certain way, the vibration is accelerating upward. For those that are not, the vibration may remain the same or decelerate downward. You cannot speak of all of you, even though all of you may seem to be going through this, as having the same agenda or coming out the other side in the same way. So you have to be specific on a case-by-case basis. You cannot generalize. Different people will use this in different ways for their own ends. But it sounds like you're talking about a separation point where those who use it towards their benefit and those who don't will have more of a split of consciousness here.
**Bashar:** Have you never heard us talk about the fact that this is the time of the splitting of the parallel realities into different versions of Earth that is becoming much more crystallized and physicalized?

**Questioner 3:** Yes.
**Bashar:** Well, there you go. That's the splitting prism. That's what you're talking about. Your reality is literally cracking into literally different versions of parallel Earths so that you can make a decision. Remember, there are glass walls between all these versions, and just because you can see a version that you're not vibrationally compatible with doesn't mean it has the ability to reach you through the glass wall. So continue with the actions and the behaviors that are more representative of the reality that you prefer, and that's the one you'll be living in, regardless of whether or not you can still observe other realities that are not the ones you're in.

**Questioner 3:** Thank you, Bashar, for your time and your assistance.
**Bashar:** Again, it is our passion and our pleasure. Thank you for the co-creation of the interaction and good day.

***

### **Q&A Session 6: Gratitude and Simulacrums**

**Questioner 4:** Hi Bashar. First of all, I want to thank you, from all of me to all of you, for the preparedness that you've brought to this reality for all of us at this time.
**Bashar:** Again, it is our passion and our pleasure to be engaged with all of you in this way.

**Questioner 4:** Well, it's been very helpful. I'm able to stay within my center and focus on what's going on within me and seeing the invisible barriers between different realities and really being in an active state with myself and at a high level of neutrality. So thank you so much from my heart.
**Bashar:** Well, we are again happy to provide the information, but we also extend our deep appreciation and thanks to you for being willing to actually apply it in your life, because that's the only thing that really makes the difference.

**Questioner 4:** Yes, and I'm glad I did. All right. I have a question. I'd like to share a little bit more about the simulacrum. I understand what it means to me, but in my reality, have I, through my trainings and understandings, created a third reality within myself for a third mind that is connected with the future self of myself?
**Bashar:** Yes. That is always there in that process, no matter how little or much of it you may do. A third vein, shall we say, overlap or simulacrum is always necessary for that to be experienced on any level.

**Questioner 4:** So in the third reality sense of that idea, is that coming through our reality in a stronger sense now because our focus has changed a little bit here?
**Bashar:** Yes. And we will be talking a little bit more about this in an upcoming transmission called *The Parallel Reality Wheel*, because that is the general mechanism that is utilized to be more aware of different parallel realities that are overlapping in the here and now: to create, in a sense, a series of third realities that represents the blending between what you consider your reality to be and another parallel reality. And the more parallel realities you become aware of, the more third realities are created to act as go-betweens or simulacrums so that they can be experienced in that way in your reality.

**Questioner 4:** Now, is that also acting as a bridge for me, for all of us, to go into our future network template for those selves that are available to us?
**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner 4:** I've been exploring a little bit of that and it's been very easy. It's been a very seamless connection for me.
**Bashar:** Congratulations. Yes. Thank you so much.

**Questioner 4:** I'm just curious. I live in Sedona, and I would like to know what your location is now.
**Bashar:** How many miles? Above 7,000 of your miles.

**Questioner 4:** Okay. So are we doing everything we can? How can we do more?
**Bashar:** You can always do more, but you're doing okay.

**Questioner 4:** All right. Well, I again just wanted to connect with you on this note because I'm very grateful for the presence I'm able to give back to this experience right now.
**Bashar:** You have our gratitude as well. Thank you. Good day.

***

### **Q&A Session 7: Channeling, Leading Edge, and Quantum Physics**

**Questioner 5:** Bashar and to you good day. Good day. I'm so happy to be here. Thank you so much for having me. It's my highest excitement to interact with you.
**Bashar:** And ours as well to interact with you and all of the rest of you wonderful [beings].

**Questioner 5:** My first question: I want to ask about this idea of when they say someone is a "clear channel" and they have no filter. Do they still have to have some vibrational relativity or vicinity to the information that's coming through or that they're translating in order to be able to receive it?
**Bashar:** Part of the idea of the training is to alter the vibrational frequency of the personality so that it is a better receiver for other kinds of information that may be representative of different frequencies that the channel may not ordinarily access. So yes, they have to have some training or affinity for the vibration that allows for the connection of the third reality in which the information can be accessed.

**Questioner 5:** Okay. And then my next question: There's this terminology that I hear a lot of channels say: "The Leading Edge." What reference do you have for that?
**Bashar:** From our perspective, the idea of the Leading Edge is that there is an aspect to the entire collective consciousness of your planet that is like a wave, an expanding wave of consciousness. But it is also based partly, not only in non-physical but in physical reality, and therefore there are certain, shall we say, pressures or resistances in physical reality that pile up against the expansion wave, creating a border or barrier that might be considered the Leading Edge of the expansion, because there is still a vibrational difference between the front of that wave and the reality that it is changing, which may have still a little bit of resistance to it.

**Questioner 5:** That's really cool. And is there any relativity to the idea of like quantum, like the wave and the particle function? Does that have any relevance there?
**Bashar:** There are some cross-correlations, but not necessarily exactly in the wave that we just described.

**Questioner 5:** Okay. And speaking of the wave and the particle, I was reading a book and they talked about the idea that our brain is searching for things, and you mentioned that we're shifting billions of times per second. Is that any relevance to the wave and the particle?
**Bashar:** It does.

**Questioner 5:** Can you expand on that?
**Bashar:** Well, the idea is that consciousness must be understood to be part of the equation. And when it is understood that way, you will see that it manifests this idea of so-called duality in the concept you call spacetime. And in manifesting that duality, you will always have both expressions of energy and matter—wave and particle, as you say—that will allow you the opportunity to know that you sit squarely in between them as a conscious entity generating them both, so that you have the opportunity to understand your reality as being far more fluid and flexible than you otherwise might have been taught to see. Do you follow?

**Questioner 5:** Yeah, I do. So science is beginning to break through those understandings and create the idea that reality itself isn't necessarily as solid as you used to think, that the very idea of spacetime may need to be dissolved in the understanding that all of these things issue from the consciousness field that exists prior to the experience of space and time.
**Bashar:** In other words, to use an example you have in your quantum physics: the concept of entanglement. Do you understand?

**Questioner 5:** Yes.
**Bashar:** But many of your scientists thought, and many still think, that this idea of entanglement demonstrates "action at a distance"—that if you have two particles that were created and they split off and go in two different directions and are light-years apart, but you still manipulate one particle, knowing that the other particle is then simultaneously manipulated, making it appear as if they are breaking the speed of light barrier. Because how can the information of this manipulation reach that particular particle faster than the speed of light? So many have assumed and coined the phrase that this is "spooky action at a distance" that they didn't understand. However, it is not a demonstration of action at a distance. It is a demonstration that distance is an illusion. Very cool. Because those particles are actually still here and now, no matter where they appear to be in the illusion of physical spacetime and volume. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 5:** Yeah, it does.
**Bashar:** Therefore, all of these kinds of understandings and recognitions are beginning to break down the concept of what quantum reality really is, which is simply one of the first expressions of consciousness creating a matrix and a crystallization, shall we say, field that creates the foundation of what you experience as the physical reality dream. It's just an expression that lays a carpet down for you, or a game board down for you, so you can play the physical reality game.

**Questioner 5:** That's pretty cool. And does that make sense?
**Bashar:** It does make sense.

**Questioner 5:** And so, what function do our brains have in this idea of things shifting billions of times per second? What mechanism? What's actually happening there?
**Bashar:** Well, the idea is that you become literally a new person with a new brain that is more adapted to the idea of the vibrational shift of the reality that you have. You never have the same brain. You never even have the same atomic structure.

**Questioner 5:** So crazy. I love that. Yes. That's really exciting. It is. And thank you for that.

***

### **Q&A Session 8: Synchronicity, 9/11, and Abundance**

**Questioner 5:** And then my next question: I want to give a huge testament to acting on my excitement. I'm doing it to the best of my ability and I'm experiencing so much synchronicity and so many alignment signs. It can sometimes be a little overwhelming, just in the fact that there's so much of it that it's almost like people around me don't know how to handle it, and so I'm having an adjustment there. Do you have any advice?
**Bashar:** There will always be an adjustment. Just remember the entire formula and you'll be fine. Everything will adapt around you as it needs to. Some things will not adapt, but then those things are not necessarily going to remain part of the reality that you prefer to experience.

**Questioner 5:** Yeah. And so one of the consistent kind of synchronicity signs I'm having is 9/11. I see that on the clock. I see mostly all of the numbers, but that one seems to be the most consistent that I see every day.
**Bashar:** Yes. Well, it has generally become a symbol in your reality of the idea of abrupt, unexpected change.

**Questioner 5:** Interesting. Okay. And so with that, I want to thank you for the transmission that you gave us in December of *Eye of the Storm 2020*. That has been really paramount to remaining in the center. I feel like I'm in this bubble reality of just well-being and experiencing a lot of really great synchronicity and a lot of beautiful things.
**Bashar:** It is a companion, and the first part that is connected to this particular interaction, going from the "eye of the storm" now to what we are calling the "eye of the needle," which is the narrow passage you are all passing through at this time. By being able to use this time to strip yourselves down to your essential core and let go of those things that are no longer you, so you can more effortlessly use the calm in the center of the eye of the storm to pass through the narrow passage of the eye of the needle and come out the other side in a manner that is more representative of who you prefer to be.

**Questioner 5:** That's what it feels like. A lot of awareness of things that are just choices, not necessarily that they're wrong or bad, but just a lot of options that I'm aware of that I can choose what works for me.
**Bashar:** This is the time to make choices. This is the time to decide. This is the pivot point. This is the eye of the needle. This is the passage. Beautiful.

**Questioner 5:** And then you did mention though that you said 2020 was going to be nuts, and I have to agree. But also said that there would be some event in September with the Eastern Bloc. So I guess it's going to be even more nuts than we're experiencing right now?
**Bashar:** I cannot comment on that at this time. You are not yet any of you on the other side of the eye of the needle.

**Questioner 5:** Okay. Good to know. And then the last thing I just want to ask about is another synchronicity sign. A couple years ago, there was an energy that I kept feeling around me, and you had said there was a name to this energy: STI. And it never manifested in an actual human baby that I was feeling, but I do keep seeing signs of this truck that keeps coming into my awareness. Rose? Do you have anything to say on that?
**Bashar:** It is in some sense an opportunity to recognize that at that moment you are in the proper state when you see that synchronicity to communicate with that being. Okay? So just open up your mind and let in what comes in at that moment and see what you get.

**Questioner 5:** Thank you so much, Bashar. I appreciate you.
**Bashar:** As we appreciate all of you. Thank you. Good day.

***

### **Q&A Session 9: Green Restart, Purpose of Viruses, and Guilt**

**Questioner 6:** Hello Bashar and to you good day.
**Bashar:** And to you, good day. How are you today?

**Questioner 6:** Perfect. Thank you. Thank you, Bashar. I have three topics or questions. The first one is about "Restart Green," meaning we've had our economies and global social interactions slowed on our planet temporarily. Yes. And when we get back up to speed or increase our speed again, I would love to see things move towards a Green Utopia. We've talked about that a little bit before, and I'm wondering if you can expand on how we might head in a greener direction for a happy, healthy green planet for all beings.
**Bashar:** Well, it will require the activities and behaviors that are known as restoration of the planet. This is something obviously that each individual has to decide for themselves to become engaged and involved in, in order to create the restoration that will bring back the ecological systems that will allow for more balance upon your world. So it's simply a matter of making the choice to become more engaged physically in these activities.

**Questioner 6:** I love that. The current environment has provided demonstrations of how that can happen with the clean air and everything that we've had. And thank you so much for it.
**Bashar:** And you can also understand that a part of the reason why the situation is happening the way it is is because certain ecological systems have been destroyed.

**Questioner 6:** Yes, yes. And so I'm very much appreciating all that's been pointed out to us with that. And I guess I'm going to bring this topic up next, and that is the seeing of the positive side. In the midst of this, I know that I've been very fortunate to be on the positive side, and I think this has to do with why maybe we are coming together here in this eye of the needle. And I have written on my whiteboard over there: "Seeing the Positive Side. Positive Goggles. Game On." And I would like to be able to share, or have us share, that it's okay to feel good regardless of what the circumstance looks like.
**Bashar:** Well, of course. And that's what we have always said to you: Regardless of circumstance, remain in a positive state. Otherwise, you cannot receive the benefit from what's going on. One of the positive ways of looking, for example, at the sequestering and isolation and social distancing, is to look at it from a kind of monastic point of view, where you have sequestered yourself in a way where you have the opportunity to spend time investigating your inner world and letting go of those belief systems and cleaning house of those things that no longer serve you, so that when you pass through the eye of the needle, it will be more effortless and you will come out of the other side in a more accelerated and streamlined way. So of course, take advantage in any way you can that is positive of whatever circumstances are going on. Otherwise, you cannot experience the benefit of such.

**Questioner 6:** Yes. Thank you. And I'm really enjoying that and I'm really having a fun time holding that place of being happy and joyful regardless. And I love the idea of those of us, and I think there are probably many, that are on the Leading Edge of that, and that helps everybody so much, those that are wanting to reach towards feeling good.
**Bashar:** And so I just wanted to share that. All right. But it is as simple as making a decision and making a choice. It's all yes.

**Questioner 6:** Thank you. And then the other question I have is very pointed to the circumstance of now here on this planet, and I'm curious: What is the purpose of viruses?
**Bashar:** Well, there are many. But again, it is showing you, as a balancing mechanism, when your world is out of balance, for one thing. It forces you to go into a state of withdrawal, of internal investigation. It shows you when you have destroyed the barriers that keep them in place. When the world is balanced, it is an indication of imbalance in your society, in your world, for one thing. It's not the only thing, but right now that's the main thing that it's showing you. The fact that it is engaging all of you to the degree that it is shows you that you have created an imbalance in your world to this degree where every single individual is affected, and you have to come together as different individuals in a unified way to create a restoration of the balance and the energy, not only through energy and consciousness, but through the physical behaviors and actions that you decide to take.

**Questioner 6:** So that would be true for pointing out the imbalance or the contrast, whether it's for society or individuals?
**Bashar:** Yes, of course. Explanation?

**Questioner 6:** Yes. Does that serve you?
**Bashar:** Yes, it does. Thank you very much. You're very welcome.

***

### **Q&A Session 10: Energy Development, Selfishness, and Truth**

**Questioner 7:** Hi Bashar and to you good day.
**Bashar:** Okay.

**Questioner 7:** I just have a few questions. First, I wanted to share with you about what I'm really excited about. So, I've been working with this teacher who is all about energy development, and he's created this whole perspective and understanding not only of how to develop certain energy structures but also to actually give you access to developing it on your own.
**Bashar:** All right. So that is your permission slip of choice at the moment.

**Questioner 7:** Yes. So I am, like I said, very excited, so grateful for this time. And then the only thing that I kind of grapple with sometimes is, like, you know, how sometimes I feel like am I being selfish or self-absorbed just to be in my own world, just being so happy while, you know, collectively it may not be so for everybody?
**Bashar:** Well, are you doing anything about applying what you're learning in the outer world through your behaviors, your actions, your choices, other than just absorbing information? Are you applying any of the information outwardly in any way, shape, or form that might allow you to act as a living example that other people can see so that perhaps they know that might be other options they can choose for themselves as well?

**Questioner 7:** Yes. Or no? So I'm applying it and I'm sharing it with the people that I live with, but I'm not really going out and telling everybody.
**Bashar:** Well, I'm not saying you have to actually specifically tell them about that permission slip, although that's one way. What I'm saying is: Is it built into your behavior to follow your joy, in following the formula without insistence or assumption, and remaining in a positive state, so that whatever it is you are doing by acting on your joy simply becomes evident to other people, so that they can see in you a living example that they can make those kinds of positive choices for themselves as well?

**Questioner 7:** Yes.
**Bashar:** All right. Then what else do you need to do? What else can you do? I mean, I guess it's always like, "Am I supposed to be providing something for the community or the collective in some way?" Being... does it excite you to do that?

**Questioner 7:** Not always. No. Sometimes.
**Bashar:** Are there some ways in which it excites you to do that?

**Questioner 7:** Yes.
**Bashar:** Then those are the things to do. Okay. And that will be sufficient. And always remember that no matter what you share, and no matter which way you share it, no matter what kind of an example you are, that there might be other opportunities and options for people to choose what they choose to do with that information or that observation is absolutely none of your business. And that's always as far as you can help anyway. Okay? Does that take a weight off your shoulders?

**Questioner 7:** It does.
**Bashar:** All right. Okay. Just be yourself as best you can, do the things that give you joy, and you will be a living example to others whether you know it or not.

**Questioner 7:** Thanks, Bashar. So then, like you said, that takes the weight off my shoulders. But then I guess my other question is: You know how there could be multiple realities happening at once?
**Bashar:** There are. There are.

**Questioner 7:** Right. So at the end of the day, though, is there such a thing as an inherent truth, or is it really just multiple realities that you choose to align with or not?
**Bashar:** The inherent truth is that all truths are true when you believe them to be. That's the truth. What we give you as the Five Laws is a basic description of the structure of existence, and those never change. If you want to call that an inherent underlying truth, you can. You exist. There's nothing you can do to change that. You can change your form, but you can't cease to exist. That's your natural state. That's your natural quality is existence. Everything is here and now. There's nothing you can do to change that. The One is the All. The All are the One. There's nothing you can do to change that. What you put out is what you get back. There's nothing you can do to change that. Everything changes, and there's nothing you can do to change that. The only things that don't change are the laws. That's a description of the structure of existence. So if you want to call that an underlying fundamental foundational template truth, you can. But everything else is your variation, your perspective, and your experience of that underlying structure. The underlying structure never changes. What changes is your perspective and experience of it. And that's how creation expands: is your unique perspective and experience of the structure that never changes. Your relationship to it and your expression of it is what expands creation. God.

**Questioner 7:** So... okay. Does that make sense to you?
**Bashar:** It does make sense.

**Questioner 7:** So then it's like, you know, how there could be multiple perspectives or explanations about even what's happening right now.
**Bashar:** That's what I just said. Yeah. Everything is a neutral experience, a neutral set of props that can serve double duty. You can get a completely different experience out of the very same circumstance than someone else is getting because of what you put into it and what perspective you have and what relationship you have to it. That's why the fourth part of the formula is so crucial: Remain in a positive state no matter what's happening, and you will always get the benefit, no matter how it looks, no matter how it was created, no matter what anyone else's opinion or experience is of it. You will get the effect based on the vibrational state you choose to be in in relation to it. What you put out is what you get back. It's not built in to the experience. It's not built in to the prop. The circumstance doesn't have built-in meaning. It's just a situation. It's just a neutral set of props. The way you experience it is utterly determined by the vibrational state that you choose to experience it from.

**Questioner 7:** Got it. Anything else? Then my other question is: Is this year going to get like... is this just the beginning of the storm? Is it like, are you allowed to tell us, is it going to get worse?
**Bashar:** Right now you are passing through what we have called the eye of the needle. And as long as you have been experiencing this for the last 3 to 3 and a half months, you will continue to experience on the other side of this needle another 3 to 3 and a half months. Things can accelerate after that. Things might get more chaotic here and there in different ways, but it all determines by what you take through the eye of the needle with you. The eye of the needle, as a concentrated and collapsed passageway, prevents you from bringing through things that are completely irrelevant for you. And if you use it that way and strip away all the fear-based beliefs and leave them behind on this side of the passage, then you will move through the eye of the needle in a more effortless way and come out the other side in a more accelerated, more positive way that will allow you to experience acceleration from that point forward. Other people may experience a deceleration if they are resistant to letting go of those things that anchor them to the past instead of letting the future self guide them through the eye.

**Questioner 7:** Awesome. I do feel I have been experiencing that for sure. All right. Awesome. Okay. One last question. Bashar, you know what is happening, like, energetically, when somebody is quote-unquote "empathic"? Is there... they are matching a frequency of another and operating on a similar wavelength so that they're having the same thoughts and feelings at the same time?
**Bashar:** You never read anyone else's mind. You never read anyone else's energy per se in the way that you classically mean that. But you are having your own thoughts and own feelings that are mirroring what someone else is doing because you're operating on a similar wavelength and therefore having a similar experience. Therefore, you know what they're feeling and know what they're thinking because that's what you're thinking and feeling too, by operating in the same vibrational frequency. It's mirroring, like tuning fork mirroring.

**Questioner 7:** Right. But I noticed with me, like, sometimes I'll be tuning into somebody and matching their vibration, and then it's almost like I take it on and I can't shake back to my normal.
**Bashar:** That's a belief system. It's a belief system. Totally. So just let... like, I just have to change your belief about what it is you're able to do when you mirror those things. Get what you need out of it, and then realize that you can still go into whatever state you need to be in to utilize the information you've learned in a way that works for you. You don't have to stay in a state that doesn't work for you that may work for them.

**Questioner 7:** Got it. All right. This is one of my favorite things is to interact with you. So thank you so much.
**Bashar:** It is also one of our favorite things to interact with all of you, which is why we do it. So thank you for the co-creation. Our unconditional love to you all. Thank you. Bye.

***

### **Q&A Session 11: Train Station Analogy, Financial Miracles, and Need vs. Neediness**

**Questioner 8:** Hello Bashar. Thank you for your presence today.
**Bashar:** It is our passion and our pleasure, as always. Thank you.

**Questioner 8:** The last three months for me, it's as if I have arrived at a new train station. Yes. And train station, as you have put, has been going in different directions. But this particular train station seems very chaotic. Lots of trains, a lot more intensity. And on some trains I see going down on the low end, human suffering and food shortages and things like this.
**Bashar:** You are being very perceptive, and this is why this is a companion piece to the transmission called *The Eye of the Storm*, in which we invited you all to stay calm in the center. Because what's happening now is you are at the train station called the "eye of the needle," and this is a very narrow passage that many of you are now going to pass through. But the only way to do it effortlessly is to strip yourselves of more and more of the negative and fear-based belief systems so that when you emerge on the other side of this passage, you can accelerate more towards the idea of the reality you prefer. But on the other side, many people may decelerate and not go toward the reality that would necessarily be the one representative of the highest joy. So this is an extremely crucial pivot point in this passage through the eye of the needle that will determine many things you will experience on the other side of this eye. So you are perceptive in understanding the chaos that surrounds this particular pivot point at this time and how crucial and important that it is.

**Questioner 8:** Over the last three months, I had many, many miracles that I could not have even imagined, particularly around financial things happening that have uplifted me and prepared me for this time of a downturn, a financial downturn in the economy. As a matter of fact, some things have happened where even now I'm still... my business is still going fine, to my surprise.
**Bashar:** Well, don't be too surprised, because again, you have been willing to relax somewhat the idea of your definitions of abundance so that you can allow all forms of it, or more forms of it, to work for you rather than just the monetary representation. This will always be the purpose of the idea of sequestering yourselves in this way at this time, through the isolation and social distancing, is to go more deeply within so that you can divest yourself of the things that don't work for you so you can move forward in a more accelerated and effortless way. That's what this is all for. So congratulations on riding that particular frequency wave.

**Questioner 8:** Thank you. Even in the face of huge miracles for me, yes, I still have anxiety and doubt and fear. Why? Well, I was examining this, and I noticed that one condition that I usually set up my magic to work is I have to put myself in a position of need. I can't be in a position of preference or want, but need.
**Bashar:** Is not desperation. Need is simply an alignment with the basic needs of life, as we have discussed. It's not about the wants; it is about the needs. But don't translate or define need as desperation, not as needy. It's basic need, and that's fine. That's an accepting, open state of being willing to receive what you need. Watch your definition. It is more important now than ever before to be precise about your definitions of those terminologies. Need is not neediness. Need is open to receiving the basic needs of life, which, if you receive them, will fulfill you.

**Questioner 8:** Okay. Yes, yes. All right. And I can see from what you just told me also that part of my misbelief, if you would put it that way, I project onto situations that aren't life and death, but I perceive them as such, so it creates a sense of anxiety.
**Bashar:** Yes. Well, you will always perceive them that way if you're coming from the desperation side of neediness rather than the understanding of what basic needs are simply as the fulfillment of everything that is relevant for you in life. Yes. And that's all there is to it.

**Questioner 8:** A few times I've made a conscious choice of setting aside that desperation, and it's been fine. It turned out fine.
**Bashar:** Exactly. So why not continue to allow it? You have to deal with the belief within you that, "Oh, this is too good to be true. It can't possibly continue." Of course it can, because it's not continuing; it's only existing in the now. Therefore, it's not about having to wonder or worry whether it will continue. That's a spacetime perspective. If you're always in the now, it will always be here because it exists in the now, just like you do. It doesn't have to be a situation of experiencing continuation in the way that you mean it, because you're also giving that a negative edge. "Things that have to continue might not be able to continue." Therefore, you're struggling with this paradoxical conundrum based on the idea that your perspective is one about having to continue, instead of simply: Everything that I need is here and now where I am. So no continuance, per se, is required in the way you've been structuring it. Of course, you will experience it in the next moment that you create, in the next and the next and the next, because you're always in the now moment, but just from a different point of view. And that pervades that ability, and what you need pervades all the points of view of the now moment, and that's what appears to be continuance from a spacetime continuity perspective. But don't focus on the idea of the continuance. It's simply focusing in the now so that you can see and feel and experience the pervasiveness of what you need in the now. Just let time and space take care of itself in terms of creating the illusion of continuance.

**Questioner 8:** What about the guilt that I feel sometimes when I see outside of myself—PE friends or even the larger world—suffering, yet I'm doing well? So you don't deserve it, I guess, in your own mind. I guess you just can't believe that little old you actually deserves to have this experience.
**Bashar:** But don't you understand that by allowing yourself to have this experience, then in the actions you take, you become a living example so that other people can see in you an option that they might then realize is available to them too? If you're guilty about it, you don't shine. And if you don't shine, others can't see that what it is you're giving off might actually be possible for them. You become a dark hole that they see no respite from. So if you refuse to shine because you believe you don't deserve it, then you're not giving other people the opportunity to see in you as an example that they could choose to shine too. Ah. Does that help?

**Questioner 8:** It does. It's resonance and reflective. Yes. Yes. So being guilty means, "Well, I guess I shouldn't shine," and therefore I'm taking away from others the ability to know that shining is possible. That if you're going to regret anything or feel guilty about anything—which I'm not saying you have to—that would be the thing to be guilty about: not shining.
**Bashar:** Yeah. Therefore, the paradox is that to be guilty creates the situation you actually should be guilty about. Yes. Not shining. So don't be guilty so you can shine, and if you shine, you'll have nothing to be guilty about because you'll be serving others by shining and letting them know there's another option other than what they have already been experiencing, which is the lack of their own shining.

**Questioner 8:** Yes. And I won't have reflected back to me a sense of jealousy or... you might...
**Bashar:** I'm not saying that those people may not project their own issues upon you. But again, remember: What difference does it make what they do? Because you're not basing your state on any outside conditions, are you?

**Questioner 8:** No.
**Bashar:** Thank you. So who cares if some people are jealous or project negative ideas upon you? That's their issue. And by being in the state that you need to be in, you will recognize that it's their issue and not yours, unless of course you feel like being convinced that it's your issue. But you're the one creating that state then for yourself again by being convinced that they're right about you. "Oh yeah, you should be guilty about this." Oh yeah.

**Questioner 8:** Why? Makes sense. Makes sense. Yes. All right. Does that help?
**Bashar:** That helps tremendously. Thank you. Anything else?

**Questioner 8:** Regarding the COVID virus, when we hear reports that X amount of people cases are reported, can you tell me how many actual... like, if one is reported, is it actually like three or four that actually have it?
**Bashar:** In general, it can be as high as a factor of 10 times what is reported.

**Questioner 8:** Okay. Thank you so much, Bashar.
**Bashar:** It is once again our deepest passion and pleasure to interact with each and every one and all of you. We thank you for the co-creation. Our unconditional love to you all. Good day.

***

### **Q&A Session 12: DNA Alterations, Hybrid Agenda, and Advice for Latin America**

**Questioner 9:** Good day. Hi Bashar. During the DNA alterations from other civilizations, are these done during the fetus time? If so, how are these alterations done?
**Bashar:** Many of them are done during fetal periods, but they also may continue for quite some time into childhood and sometimes even into adulthood, depending on what it is that needs to be altered. The idea is that it is done energetically, vibrationally, with certain kinds of energy frequencies that are representative of reformatting the DNA structure, delinking and relinking, and the creation even sometimes of new elements that fit into the structure that are connected to other dimensions and other realms. It is a process that sometimes can be ongoing for quite some time in the life of any particular individual who is participating in the hybridization agenda towards the idea of Earth becoming the sixth hybrid race.

**Questioner 9:** As adults, can we begin to remember parts of the collective from that civilization?
**Bashar:** You can remember what is going on in the collective if you let go of the fear and allow yourselves to become more conscious of your choice to participate in the hybridization agenda and ask for the experiences to continue or to be remembered on your own terms, in your own way, so that you may know yourself as a true participant having chosen to be. Then yes, the idea is that you can begin to tap into the knowledge and information that will allow you what you call the memory of what is going on on the collective level and even on the individual levels of those who are participating in the hybridization agenda.

**Questioner 9:** Oh, I'm Mariana from Colombia. I'm so excited and glad I have the opportunity to ask you a question, and I really wanted to know if you have any special advice for Latin American people and young people during these upcoming years.
**Bashar:** The advice that we have just given in this transmission, and will give in the meditation to anchor in this permission slip of passage through the eye of the needle—now that you are all sequestered in your own places—will be of paramount importance to allow you to center yourselves and strip away those things that won't allow you to pass through the eye of the needle to the other side into a world that is more representative of the kind of reality that you prefer to experience. So the things that we have shared with you this day of the causations of the present circumstance, and what you can do to create the balance and restoration of your planet and your energy and your collective consciousness in the way we have described through this particular permission slip exercise, will be what is of paramount importance to undertake during this time of sequestering.

***

### **Q&A Session 13: Chasing Money, Doubt, and Power in Relationships**

**Questioner 10:** Hello Bashar. I hope you're well. I thought about this, and I guess the core of what I'm wanting to ask is: How do I get out of the headspace of always thinking that I need to chase the money, and how do I move into the heart space of following my heart more decidedly and with less doubt? Thank you very much.
**Bashar:** Good day. Remember first and foremost that doubt is simply a 100% trust in a belief you don't prefer, in a belief that is out of alignment with your true self. There's no such thing as a lack of trust. Doubt is not a lack of trust; it is trusting something you don't prefer. But the idea of going more into your heart space with abundance is to form an understanding in a new relationship with the concept of what abundance actually is. As we have defined it again, it is the ability to do what you need to do when you need to do it. Money is one of the forms of abundance, or one of the symbols of abundance in exchange on your planet, but it isn't the only one. Being given a gift is a form of abundance. Having something to trade is a form of abundance. Imagination is a form of abundance. And synchronicity is a form of abundance. So forming a broader relationship with the concept of abundance and allowing all forms to come in when they need to in pure, perfect timing will allow a little bit of this and a little bit of that and a little bit of that to work together to form the 100% abundance that you may need to allow you the ability to continue to act on your passion in life. So to come from the heart, you must relax the mind in understanding that it is more, shall we say, realistic to allow for many forms of abundance to pervade existence and to come through you in any way, shape, or form they need to, rather than closing those doors to prevent other forms of abundance from coming in just because you are so highly focused on needing only one form of abundance, which can often shortchange you because it may not be the form that is actually the path of least resistance for what you need to do.

**Questioner 11:** Hi Bashar. I was wondering if you could clarify the difference between a relationship where you give your power away to someone else and one where you don't give your power away to someone else. How would we recognize the difference? It seems as if every relationship there's some sort of exchange of energy. Is energy different than how you've defined power? Thank you.
**Bashar:** Well, again, most people, when they're honest with themselves, will recognize the difference between true excitement and anxiety. They just have to be honest with themselves. And the phrase, by the way, "giving your power away" is not really an accurate description of what's happening. You can never actually give your power away. You can, however, use your power to make yourself feel powerless, to make yourself feel as if you have given your power away. But all you're doing is matching the frequency of what the other person is suggesting that you should do. So if you don't match that frequency, you will not be able to have the experience of using your power to create the experience or the appearance of having given your power away. So the first thing, the first and foremost thing to understand, is power cannot be given away. But you can create the experience as if that's what's happening by simply matching the frequency of something you don't prefer just because it was suggested or offered to you by another person who may be dealing with that issue themselves. It's all based on frequency. All based on vibration of consciousness. And again, there is no actual exchange. There is a harmonizing, a matching, a mirroring of frequencies to have similar experiences at the same time, whether negative or positive. So stop thinking in terms of actually giving something away. Stop thinking in terms of actually literally exchanging energy. You are using your own energy in your own reality and changing the frequency of it to be either more or less similar to the frequency someone else is displaying. That's how those experiences happen in your own reality: is because you are tuning yourselves to the same frequency, or a similar enough frequency, to someone else to have the same experience, positive or negative, at the same time as the other person. So in that sense, power is energy, energy is power, and it's all based on resonance. It's all based on frequency. It's all based on vibration.

***

### **Q&A Session 14: Surrendering to New Realities and Bashar’s Preferences**

**Questioner 12:** Hello Bashar. I entered a new parallel reality lately which is totally different from the ones that I have been living before, so to speak. And I know that it resembles who I truly am. So now my question is: How can I surrender fully to this control that is already built in this new stream, so profoundly that I can totally clearly see myself from the new point of view only? Thank you.
**Bashar:** Again, the things that we have described in this particular permission slip that will allow you to pass through the eye of the needle and come out the other side as more your true self can aid and assist you in this endeavor. So pay attention to the process that we described in the monologue and crystallize it for yourself in the meditation that will accompany this transmission as well. And there will be an upcoming transmission in the near future called *The Parallel Reality Wheel* that may also act as a permission slip to crystallize this concept for you more clearly.

**Questioner 13:** Hi B. My name is Gabriela. I'm from Canada, and I have a few questions for you. My first question is: What's your favorite dish and what's your favorite specific activity?
**Bashar:** As you know, I am a First Contact specialist, and therefore that is representative of my passion. But other expressions of my passion are as an explorer, as a sculptor utilizing certain kinds of nanotechnology to create certain forms that are vibrationally and physiologically representative of different flows and vibrations of energy within existence, and allow others, by matching those frequencies, to have different kinds of interactive experiences with other levels of consciousness that I may have encountered in my journey as a First Contact specialist. As I have also said, we no longer eat, we no longer sleep. So in that sense, I cannot answer your question of having a favorite dish, if dish is what you meant by food. We no longer eat.

**Questioner 13:** And what's your favorite song?
**Bashar:** The vibrations that move me at any given moment, at that moment, are my favorite, because they move me in my passion. Whatever that may be. Of course, as we have said, ethereal music is a little different than Earth music, in that it would seem very simplistic to you based on tertiary structures, three-count formulas. But where you might only hear a simple note, we would hear a symphony, because we can hear more chords than you. We can hear more vibrations than you because we are tuned to different dimensional levels of sound, or what may pass for sound in different dimensions. But whatever moves me at any given moment, at that moment, is my favorite, because it moves me.

**Questioner 13:** My second question is: What is aggression? Can you define it and how does it help us?
**Bashar:** It is a fear-based belief system that has to do with desperation and feeling that you are not going to get what you need unless you assert yourself beyond normal parameters. It is a fear of lack manifesting itself as a behavior that overwhelms, because it is believed that the overwhelm must be expressed in order for the individual to receive what they need, because they do not believe in the automatic power of their natural balance to bring them what they need.

**Questioner 13:** And my last question is a little bit fantastic. I've heard that apparently mermaids are real. So how can I meet one? What would be like the procedure to follow?
**Bashar:** The procedure to follow to meet what you call a mermaid would be that you would have to transition to another dimension where they actually exist, because even though now and then one of them may come through a portal into your reality, they do not live in your reality, and therefore they are not something that you can automatically find anywhere you go. You would have to transition into their dimension of reality. And we will not discuss exactly precisely how to do that yet. There may be some information to this regard in the upcoming transmission called *The Parallel Reality Wheel*, but that is not something we will address in specific terms at this particular moment.

***

### **Q&A Session 15: Addressing Fears (Death, Future, Conspiracy) and 5G**

**Questioner 14:** Hello Tardo and good day Nania. We have some questions from our streaming viewers that we'd like to ask you.
**Bashar:** All right. Please proceed however you so desire.

**Questioner 14:** Well, many people are experiencing anxiety about four main things. First is the fear of their own death. The second is uncertainty about the future and financial uncertainty. The third is fear that things will get even crazier and worse in the world. And fourth, that conspiracy theories about why this is happening are also a fear that comes up for people. So how can we respond to these fears? What should we tell ourselves when these fears come up? What do you suggest?
**Bashar:** All right. Well, first and foremost, let us deal with the fourth proposition of what you call the conspiracy theories. The main thing going on with regard to the present situation on your planet has mostly to do not so much with anything that has been done deliberately specifically with regard to the virus itself, but with regard to the destruction, as we have said in the monologue, of many of the different ecological systems on your planet. If there is any so-called conspiracy, it is mostly the idea that people on your planet, from fear-based beliefs and from fear of lack and from the idea of what they believe to be power that is not an expression of power, will conspire to do certain things that have destructive qualities that will eliminate many of the ecological systems on your planet and have done so, in which these viruses propagate and by which they are usually contained, at least to a certain degree. But the conspiracies of greed that create the disappearance of certain systems on your planet that these viruses inhabit forces them to go beyond those borders and beyond those barriers in a far greater way than they otherwise would have, seeking out new hosts. The virus is a natural virus. It has, over time, mutated in a variety of ways, but it is not, in that sense, human-made. So the conspiracy doesn't have to do with the idea of a deliberate release of a man-made virus. It has to do with the idea of the conspiracies that exist in many of your organizations, many of your political and social systems, that allow fear of lack and greed to overtake your better nature and cause the destruction of many of the ecosystems on your planet that then allow for the propagation of opportunistic organisms such as this virus to take hold in much broader areas than they otherwise would.

This has to do also with the concept of what you call climate change, that is also a side effect of the destruction of certain ecological systems on your planet, on land, in the air, in the sea. And you will find that many of the plants that still remain on your planet are now going to be, in a sense, migrating through seed propagation in different directions than they otherwise normally inhabit. Many of your plants are now moving more northerly and more westerly in order to survive, and the areas in which they were growing will no longer be capable of supporting certain kinds of natural plants or even the foodstuffs that you may choose to grow. This will add to the ability of the virus to propagate itself in broader ranges than it used to.

Now, as we also said in the monologue, the idea now that you are isolating yourselves is a perfect, positive opportunity to go within, to use this time of self-isolation and social distancing to get in touch with the fear-based beliefs that may exist within your own individual selves so that you can clean yourselves out of these ideas and pass through the eye of the needle more effortlessly and come out on the other side with an energy that creates more opportunity and more probability to begin to build a new world, a new way of doing things that is more representative of restoring the balance that your planet once had. This may still take some time, and things may still be a little crazy and may even get a little crazier. But please remember that crazy doesn't have to be experienced in a negative way. There is positive crazy, too. Or at the very least, opportunities that will present themselves. And even though those opportunities may sometimes be reflective of things you don't prefer, by using this isolation period to go within, strengthen yourselves, balance yourselves, free yourselves of all the fear-based beliefs that you possibly can, you will be far more capable of handling anything that you may see on the other side of the passage through the eye of the needle that you don't prefer.

And as we have said many times, you may still see things you don't prefer, people making choices that you don't prefer in your world for quite some time. But the idea again is that with the splitting prism idea, that you're now fracturing into different parallel realities, it is an important thing for you to do to settle into the understanding that just because you can see people making choices you don't prefer, you're not living in that world. You are observing them through a kind of glass wall, a separation barrier, that may allow you to see those choices being made that you don't prefer, but won't necessarily allow you to be affected by those choices if you don't actually make the choice to match those negative frequencies and create the effect within your own reality. These things cannot reach you if you don't make a decision to match or mirror them in the reality that you reside in that you prefer.

The idea, therefore, is even though you may see a great deal of chaos around you—as we said before in the transmission called *The Eye of the Storm*—is to remain in the center, in the calm space, which you have given yourselves a better opportunity to do because of your own self-isolation. Treat it as a monastic experience, a meditative experience, an opportunity to take the time to go within and divest yourself of all the things that would in any way, shape, or form cause you to want to match the vibrations of things that you don't prefer, so that you can come out the other side of the passage, in a sense, more streamlined, a little bit cleaner, a little bit more stable with your indestructible core, and know that no matter what you see around you, there is nothing to fear. For fear is the thing that will cause you to mirror the vibration you don't prefer. Stay in your center. Stay in that center, the eye of the storm, as you pass through the eye of the needle, and you will find that you will be more capable of accelerating on the other side of this experience in a way that will allow you to experience more synchronicity in a positive way, more effortless communication between your physical and higher mind, and will put you in a state where you can much more willingly and much more capably move forward in a way that will allow you to eventually experience the reality that you prefer.

**Questioner 14:** Okay, that's very helpful. This idea of becoming aware of the suffering of others, as you were just mentioning. Yes. What is the purpose of that in terms of our own development, to be aware of it? And does that mean that we should take action to respond to it?
**Bashar:** Again, action is the language of physical reality. So even in this time of self-isolation, there may be many actions you can take to be a living example of positive choices that other people who may be suffering may also choose to take. Now, it doesn't mean that they all will, but you can at least give them the opportunity by being a living example of making more positive choices and taking actions—whatever actions can be taken—that show them there are other ways to do things, there may be other ways to experience what they're going through. Even though you're isolated, you have this now device that we are communicating with you through, and there are many creative things you can do. You can donate your time, you can donate your abilities, you can donate your money, you can create new ideas, you can create new organizations, you can share new ideas for how to come out the other side of this in ways that can boost people up, let them know that there may be other options other than what they may have considered in their negative states of suffering. But by all means, it's not about ignoring them. By all means, it's using those lessons to improve yourselves, to recognize that they may be doing this to help you realize more clearly what it is you don't prefer to choose, and therefore you can feed that back and reflect that back to them what it is you are learning about yourself by experiencing their suffering, and give them the opportunity to know there are other choices, that there is always the idea you call hope, and that they can elevate themselves to a point where their own imaginations can allow them more inspiration and more creativity to bring themselves through this experience in a more positive way.

So by all means, self-isolation doesn't mean that you can do nothing, that you have to ignore them, that you have to in any way, shape, or form reinforce their negativity, which would only increase their suffering. But show them the brighter side. Show them the options. Again, it doesn't mean that they have to make those choices. For you always have to let people make the choices they need to make. You do not know what their path truly is, and what it is they do with the information and options that you share with them is really none of your business. But by all means, take the actions, because as we have said, that is the strongest way to speak and the strongest way to be heard in physical reality. So at least you're giving them the opportunity to know there are other paths that they could be taking.

**Questioner 14:** Okay. Well, that's really helpful. And also, you've been talking about the splitting prism and the trains leaving the station. Where trains have left... yeah. Is this like just the beginning, or is there going to be many more years of this, or will it calm down?
**Bashar:** Well, there will be many more years of transformational experience. There won't be many more years of this specific manifestation. And again, those that are willing to shift their vibration more and more by letting go of those negative fear-based beliefs having to do with lack or lack of self-worth or anything like that will be the ones that can align themselves with a more positive and more accelerated reality that will take them more quickly through the various parallel realities where they can eventually experience a reality that they prefer by having shifted to it by making those vibrational changes within themselves. So yes, the transformation is going to go on for a while, but you'll go beyond the idea of this particular expression of it. But you still have many different consequences of the choices you have made to face, and many different kinds of opportunities to turn them around into a world of more balance. So yes, the transformation is going to go on for a few more years, but there will be different challenges and different opportunities. And if you face them from a more positive place, you will get through them in a more effortless and joyful and creative way. That is guaranteed, as long as you match the frequency and have the behaviors that exhibit the kind of behaviors that you would already be doing in the reality you already prefer.

**Questioner 14:** So does that mean that there will come a time when it'll be more difficult to change trains, in a sense? When would that be?
**Bashar:** It can be experienced that way, but only if someone is doing that through the idea of fear-based beliefs. Sometimes people may take themselves through greater challenges but still have the capacity to shift instantly into a more positive reality if facing those greater challenges of negativity was the path they needed to take to give themselves the momentum they needed to go into the positive reality more quickly. So this is not a generalization that may be true for everyone. It may be something that people may find will be experienced in a more difficult way to change farther up the line, but only if they continue on the path of creating more or buying into more negative and fear-based beliefs. Because remember, the fear-based beliefs over time will perhaps make it even not available to you to even realize that you can change. That's one of the side effects of fear-based beliefs: is actually removing the option and the awareness that there is always the opportunity to change. That's what makes it more challenging. It's not in and of itself that it is more challenging to shift, but it is more challenging if you don't know that that's an option.

**Questioner 14:** Yes, I understand. All right. Thank you. Now, can you talk to us about 5G and the positive and negative aspects of this technology?
**Bashar:** The positive aspects are that if it is tuned to the proper frequencies and the proper harmonics, it will aid and assist you in the development of artificial intelligence on your planet in a very specific way. However, if it is not tuned properly, if it is discordant, out of phase with itself, it can have some detrimental effects upon the electromagnetic field, the biomagnetic field of your body, and can cause a diminishment within the immunological systems of your body. So the idea is that it must be tuned properly to the proper harmonics to be actually experienced in a positive way. So it's not that, in and of itself, 5G is a negative thing, but it must be done in a positive way with great understanding and great precision in order to actually be experienced in a beneficial way for the creation of positive and beneficial Artificial Intelligence on your world.

**Questioner 14:** Okay, that's good to know. Another question that's come up has to do with self-worth. Many people find on their journey that they think they have achieved a certain level of self-valuation, yeah, and then they will find a circumstance comes up that triggers them to devalue themselves or to feel that they have really not accomplished a full recognition of their self-worth. All right.
**Bashar:** Well, the first and most paradoxical thing to remember when confronted with issues of lack of self-worth is, first and foremost, to own it as a choice that you made in experiencing that idea. Because the second you own it, instead of regretting that it's coming up, you are empowered to deal with it, empowered to do something to change it. So it's only the denial of the fact that it came up, the resistance to the fact that it came up, that actually makes it stick around and reoccur. Remember that many people, even when they deal with certain issues of self-worth, may test themselves to make sure they have changed. So if you test yourself and trigger yourself by attracting a situation that makes you face the idea that you may not still allow yourself to feel worthy, then you are still reacting the same old way. You're testing yourself to see if you're going to change and respond differently, even if that gets triggered. But the first step toward getting around that is to not deny or resist that it came up, but to acknowledge that you chose it. Because by acknowledging that you chose to experience lack of self-worth again, that keeps you in the seat of self-empowerment to be able to explore it and do something about changing it. And with enough practice, you will get used to the idea that you no longer need to do that, because you will finally hone the skill of owning whatever comes up instead of resisting whatever comes up. Because remember, as we have said several times, it's not about what you experience in terms of what happens; it's about what you do with that experience that makes the difference in your world. So the first step always is to never deny or resist what happens, but to own it as something that can serve you in a positive way, to know that there's a reason that it's there, and that puts you back in the driver's seat and gives you the self-empowerment and the control to explore it in a more positive, creative, inspirational way, and to actually have some fun with exploring why you would have chosen to trigger yourself in that way. And then more answers will come up, more ideas will surface, and you'll be on a different journey with that experience at that moment. So owning it and not resisting it is the first step.

**Questioner 14:** Okay, that's very helpful. Another question that's come up is that now that people are becoming more familiar with their frequency, with your frequency, yes, they were interested in knowing what your quote-unquote "phone number" is so that they can more easily tune into your frequency.
**Bashar:** Well, as we have said, picturing the image in a relaxed, meditative state of sorts, with the vibration of joy, going along with the image of a black background and a black equilateral triangle separated from the black background by a deep blue light behind the triangle, peeking out around the edges of the triangle, the triangle facing upward, pointing upward in your imagination, will in a sense be the vibrational phone number that will allow you to tap more effortlessly into our collective frequency consciousness. You won't necessarily be literally speaking with me, but you will be tapping into and downloading from that generalized collective frequency a vibration that will infuse your higher mind to make it more effortless for you to receive the information and the answers to your questions that you require, by being in that frequency and by using our collective energy and your familiarity with us as a kind of mask through which your higher mind can speak to you more clearly. To put this very simply: By imagining that particular image of the black triangle separated from the black background by the blue light, and simply asking, if you have a question, "What would Bashar say?" or "What would the people say?", you will allow more ability of your higher mind to give you the answers and information that you seek. That's how it will work.

**Questioner 14:** Okay. Great. Thank you. And lastly, what appears to some... what will be the most positive outcomes of this new world that we're building in response to what is currently happening?
**Bashar:** By passing through the eye of the needle in a streamlined way, by having done your best to divest yourself of fear-based belief so that you can fit through that narrow passage—because what will be left is your true essential self, your indestructible core, as best as you possibly can, bringing as little of the negative energy with you through that passage to the other side—you will accelerate your vibration to experience more magical synchronicity. You'll be elevating your vibration to make it far more probable that you will expand your consciousness in a variety of ways and know yourself more deeply. You will expand your vibration to make it far more probable to experience open contact with us and other extraterrestrial and extradimensional beings in the relatively near future. And so the idea is that this is the choice that is important to make now, as you pass through the eye of the needle, as you sequester yourselves in your monastic experience and use that time constructively to streamline yourselves for the passage. You will increase the likelihood and the probability of the human race that is also harmonizing with that vibration, expanding not only globally in the new Earth that you will shift to, more and more reflective of the vibrational preferences you have, more and more reflective and representative of the vibrational resonance of the Earth you prefer to experience, but you will expand to the stars more readily as well, by initiating your half of the vibration of contact and allowing us to greet you in your harmonic state in a much more powerful way. So all of this awaits you on the other side of this passage through the eye of the needle if you will but leave behind that baggage that no longer serves you.

Thank you. To our deepest love to you, our unconditional love to you all, our deepest appreciation and gratitude for the co-creation of these interactions. There is more to come, and in an upcoming transmission, we are very excited to present to you an idea called *The Parallel Reality Wheel* that will allow you more ability to get in touch with different options and different paths that you can choose to take that are far more representative of the parallel reality versions of Earth that you prefer to experience on the other side of this passage we have termed the eye of the needle. So we will communicate to you once again these ideas in great joy and great passion. Stay in that state of passion no matter what happens. It will see you through as the guiding light that will illuminate your particular unique path most clearly. So we thank you. Our unconditional love to you. When we bid you an exciting day of exploration, self-discovery, and once again, play. Please remember, as always, the first step toward true upliftment and enlightenment is to lighten up on your ego. Don't take things too seriously. Have fun. Play. And be at peace. And welcome home.

And now, please prepare for the crystallization of all this information through the meditation that will be delivered to you now.

***

### **Guided Meditation: Passing Through the Eye of the Needle**

**Bashar:**
We will now allow for relaxation meditation so that you may all become comfortable in the space that you have chosen to be in this day, in sharing with us this moment. Become relaxed. And as you focus on what is presented to you in your vision and in your music, in sights and sounds, in light and vibration, allow yourself to drift and dream with us. And allow yourself to come with us and take our hands as we once again crystallize the idea of the five steps of passage through the eye of the needle.

Allow yourselves to breathe gently and deeply, softly, and treat yourselves with kindness and treat all with kindliness and gentility as you now walk with us through this passage, through this process, through the eye of the needle. Continue to breathe deeply in and out and allow yourselves to let go, to forgive all who may have trespassed and transgressed, whether intentional or accidental matters not, for all have their own processes, and their processes no longer need to hold you back from your self-empowerment. So in this moment, as you breathe, feel the forgiveness of letting go, being truly free, course through your body. Feel the cords to the past snapping, breaking. Feel the chains breaking, dropping. Feel freedom flowing through you. Let go. Forgive. Do not dwell where you do not belong. You do not live there anymore. You are in the now, in the eye of the needle, in the passage, in the present. Forgive. Forgive. Forgive and let go.

Continue to breathe easily, comfortably, gently, and begin to feel more freedom coursing through you as you forgive yourself for anything that has been out of alignment, any reaction, any belief system you have held on to. No excuses anymore. No justifications to hold on to anything from the past anymore. No explanations that make it seem logical to do so anymore. No words necessary at this moment. Just forgive yourself as you have forgiven all others, no matter what they have done. Let them go and let yourself go so you may move forward in this time of passage through the eye of the needle toward us, toward a new reality. Let go as you forgive yourself. You no longer need to hold on. Just let go. It's all behind you now. It is only time to move forward now. So let go. You'll be fine. It is time to go with your flow and allow your flow to show you where you need to go.

Continue to breathe. And as you continue to let go of the past self, the past personality, with its built-in justifications and victimizations and anchors and excuses that make it seem that it is necessary to hold on to the past personality that no longer serves you, break free from those cords and those chains. They are necessary no longer. They do not serve you any longer. Learn the lessons you have learned. Bring the knowledge with you, but only in the positive sense, for you do not need to go back. You do not need to revisit the past. The past personality is gone. Let it dissolve into mist. Let it dissolve into the mists of time. The past is past. Gone. A vapor that blows away in a new wind coming from the future.

Breathe in that new rarified, clear, crystal air and hear in that wind the voice of the future self calling to you, the higher mind reminding you of who you truly are. And have the clear vision of the preferred self in its behaviors, in its experiences, in its emotions, in its thoughts. Let the future version of you inform you. Let it whisper to you and let the whisper become louder and more real. And let it pull you through the eye of the needle. Let it pull you home. Your true home awaits on the other side of the eye of the needle. Let the future you entice you and pull you through the eye to the place that you prefer to live, the vibrational reality that is more truly reflective of the indestructible you, the effervescent you, the joyful you, the you that experiences the freedom of truly being yourself. For you have been forgiven by yourself, and you have let go of all reflections by forgiving all others as well that would anchor you to the past where you no longer live.

Feel free to move through the eye, to float through the eye of the needle now, being pulled by the future self toward your truth, toward a new reality, a new vibration of clarity and wonderment and magic, as you move more into your true present self and allow space and time to begin to be more flexible, more fluid, to be more magical. Breathe in the now. Live in the now. There is no other place. There is no other time but the here and the now. On the other side of the eye of the needle, allow yourself to let go and float through and arrive home on the other side so that you may continue to remain in contact with us and others like us. For it is never we that go away; it is only you that make the choices that prevent you from experiencing us constantly in contact with you. We are always here. Always now. Be here now with us, and we shall move forward together into the grand, beautiful, magical unknown that will only reveal more and more and more of our true selves together as we walk hand in hand in a new world, in a new reality, breaking free from the cocoon of the past, being free by having forgiven all and ourselves, and letting the future and the higher mind and the spirit call to us, and heeding that call, and being that call, and being that you.

Continue to breathe deeply, gently, and be kind to others and yourself. Be kind. Continue to breathe as you allow your music and lights to play and take it all in and breathe it all in as something new and fresh, something clear and clean, something revitalizing and invigorating. Awaken the inner light in your own being and remember once again, as you continue to drift in this dream with us, and as you pass through the eye of the needle, on the other side: Those who dwell in fear and darkness, flow to them your unconditional love and forgiveness so that it may awaken their inner light if they so choose, so that they may truly serve all beings on the new Earth you will find yourselves upon on the other side of the eye of the needle.

Be at peace and welcome home.

Find yourself drifting and dreaming in a new reality when you awaken, a new vibration. And though time may still stretch out for a while on the other side of the eye of the needle, allow yourselves to know that you have, by letting go, truly letting go, passed through the center point, the eye of the needle, the passage of truth that strips you of all things that are no longer relevant for the true you you prefer to be.
