---
heading: "Part 2 of Respecting Your Choices"
description: "Fear, Definitions, and Energy Alignment"
c: "purple"
date: 1997-10-03
icon: Bashar
weight: 192
showdate: true
---



### Fear, Definitions, and Energy Alignment

If there is any fear left about like in her case leaving her current income source and things like that, then that is her energy, her excitement energy. 

The same energy that generates her excitement being filtered through a definition that she has bought into that is coloring that energy and making that energy be experienced as fear. Which is simply saying that you have a definition through which you are running your energy that makes you experience your energy as if it were out of tune with your true fundamental self. That's what fear is.

It's again by analogy like what you call the sour note on your piano instrument. It simply means that you need to tune it. All of you have definitions that you have bought into. You have one energy. 

That's who you are. You run your energy when you create a personality structure in physical reality. You flow your energy through the personality structure. It's in a sense a construction, a persona construction. The personality structure is created of belief systems definitions. These definitions alter the frequency of the energy based on how much they are or are not aligned with your true fundamental self. When they are aligned with your true fundamental self, you experience the flow of energy as joy, ecstasy, creativity, excitement, inspiration, imagination, and so forth and love. 

When they are out of whack, as you say, when they are misattuned to your core true self, you feel your energy as fear, anxiety, and so forth. That's what lets you know that you have a definition that is out of alignment with your truth. So if you experience fear about a given situation, it means you have a definition of the situation that has been said to you that you've bought into maybe even unconsciously and your energy is flowing through it and it's making you feel that the definition you have makes you feel the energy as if it is out of alignment with your truth. So you have to get in touch with what that definition would be. Replace it with the definition of your preference. Flow your energy through that and then you will have removed the so-called fear. You'll have transformed.


### Workshop Participation and Following Highest Excitement

Asker: To what extent should I participate in setting up workshops for her across the country?

Bashar: How excited about it are you?

So really, it's up to me if I'm excited about doing that. 

The formula. It's as simple as this.

At any given moment, Mhm. could be anything. Doesn't matter. It doesn't have to be a career. Doesn't have to be a project. At any given moment, you have available to you things that you could take some action on. Whatever it is you have the ability to take action on, take action on the one that contains the highest amount of excitement first. When you have taken that as far as you can at any given moment, then act on the next most exciting thing you have the ability to take some action on and go on down the line. one after the other. Okay, that's all you have to do. Mhm. In the course of any day, the amount of things you are capable, whether it's one or a thousand, the amount of things that you are capable of continuing to take action on, as long as you make sure that you're always acting on at any given moment, the thing that excites you the most out of anything you could be doing. As soon as you have done all you can on that and you go to the next, whatever amount of things you get done in a day, that's all you need to do in that day. And whatever you don't get to doesn't need doing. Okay? Because the thing that excites you the most as long as you are sure in your clarity, honesty, and integrity that what you are acting on is your excitement and not a disguised anxiety, not an avoidance that you say is your excitement. But as long as you truly are acting on your true fundamental joy, then that is the organizing principle and the guiding driving engine that organizes the amount of time you need and the amount of things that will come your way that you need to take action on. It is the thing that automatically organizes all the other things you need to do. Do you follow? Yes, I do. It's as simple as that. When you allow it to be that simple and act on it as if it is, you will again I guarantee I promise you will see it is that simple. Okay. Does that help you? It does very much and certainly it'll help me express my true self. Thank you. Thank you very much. You good day.


### Childhood, Toxic Parents, and Being Yourself

Greetings. And to you. Good day. Uh, I wanted to share with you first that I've done um some investigating into um my childhood. Oh, all right. Investigating into your childhood. Well, yeah. Um, a girlfriend left me a book called Toxic Parent. And well, I just realized that all of you in some way, shape, or form on your planet are to some degree toxic. Yes. Well, I realized that it that I, you know, I I uh was uh nipped in the bud. I most of you were most of you at a very early age were made to feel less than you are. Not necessarily intentionally, though we understand on your planet that that happens too. But for the most part, they simply gave you the best they could based on what they learned. Because for generations, you have been nipped in the bud. You are in that sense a garden of unopened buds. Well, all nipped and lying on the ground.

I was going along on the premise that they did their best and that I was being my own parent so I let myself do anything I want well and encourage. That's not necessarily being your own parent in the broadest sense of that word. I think we understand generally what you mean. I I guess I just trust that I wouldn't want anything that was not good for me. Well, that's not necessarily true. Well, because again, if you are nipped in the bud, you don't necessarily have a clear perspective on what might be constructive and destructive to your well-being. Very good.

I thought that it was kind of like spilled milk and I would be more in the narrow, but I realized that there was a little bit of cleaning up to do there. Oh, why? Again, remember it isn't so much the idea specifically of whether or not you are choosing constructive or destructive things, but that you finally understand that even if you choose a destructive thing, you can learn even then still to do something constructive with it which will transform it. That is the breaking of the chain.

**Orbital Presence, Cones, and Hawaii Energetics**

I Yeah, I understand that. I was I've I've listened to the tapes recently of you and me talking um you know like 10 years ago. All right. It's absolutely amazing. All right. We've grown too I've noticed. Of course. Um we are not static.

In regards to some old tapes I you mentioned that I was I think it was in '92 that you were 3,000 mi above the planet. Have you been like around here all that time? No. No. No. No. No. But there have been certain moments and opportunities when I have had a circumstance and an opportunity to place myself in orbit physically around your world. It will usually be at about that height for a variety of reasons. But now again as we have said we have recently again arrived around your planet and now will remain until the day that we call contact occurs. Slowly we will lower our altitude until we come down into what you call contact position. Now we are approximately 2,992.1 miles above your planet.

In regards to cones. Yes. Cones. I was wondering if as amplifiers and magnifiers and transmitters of energy. Yes. So, so that sort of answers my question. Well, I was wondering, do you have to use an intention with the cone or it just being there? Does it is there in a sense a difference? Well, it the shape could tell me is there a difference at this point? It seems in my mind I'm sure I could think of both sides of it. All right. There can be a difference. Yes, you can be with it and you can intend something with it and you will create a different effect in both sides. Yes.

I want to know if I need to like here's my example. No. Do you want to? It's up to you. Here's my example. I I made the little effigy of my dog Luna. Effigy of Luna. All right. Cornstarch. Corn starch doggy. Yes. And I put it under the cones. Yes. And do I just let it go or do I have I don't know. What do you want to do? And the dog. Your dog. It's your cone. It's your game. It's your experiment. What do you want to do? There's no absolute answer here. You know, I like things. I could put them there and forget about them. Yes, you could. Are you going to? Probably not. Or maybe you will. I don't know. It's your experiment. It's your experience. We didn't tell you to do that because we said there's supposed to be some absolute result. We told you in that sense that we suggested you could do it to see what results you get depending on what you choose to do. That's all.

**Hawaii and Tetrahedral Energy Points**

Okay. Here's the idea with the results. Yes. I'm choosing to uh deal or treat the dog. Yes. Naturally, which means um holistically, I'm I'm using a book that's holistic animal um healthc care. Yes. Well, then I wonder. What do you wonder? If it takes a long time, that's fine because it's natural. It could take a long time. Maybe. Well, here's the maybe in my mind, too. Am I letting it go too far? Should I maybe? Yeah. It's this and that. Yeah. Are you finding difficulty with this level of ambiguity? Maybe. Maybe. You're learning. You're learning. You're learning. It's It's really hard to uh in this instance, this is how the ambiguity serves you within the ambiguity that you now find yourself floating in. All things are equal. So, make a decision. I'm understanding that. I'm understanding that. Then just bring your intention in and make a decision. That's it. Just make a decision. Okay. About do what you feel is correct at this moment. I keep doing that. I keep yeah I make up my mind of one thing and say that feels good and then next week I say okay this week I'm going to do this and I I have been going along. Take into account that this is not in your terms arbitrary. take into account all the consequences of the things that you do do. And in taking them into account, you can use them not in a restrictive or structurized way, but you can use them to bounce off of, as you say, to make your next decision. You don't just have to throw everything out. You can see what it is you have created, and you can choose to use some of those elements to guide yourself in your next decision. It doesn't have to be as you would say absolutely and totally from zero but you have to determine which elements you need to maintain and which elements you don't.

Okay um back to the cone back to the cone when I'm playing with that shape you stressed that the circular um part was very important it is to maintain the integrity of the antenna for it to be relatively to put a ring around the inside. Fine. As close as you can make it. That's part of tuning, you said. Yes.

One last thing. Yes. Um, Hawaii, the big island. Hawaii or Big Island? Yes, it's um I read I'm taking their word for it that it's at 19.5° longitude, latitude, whatever relatively. And so what does that position uh for the island? What does that um symbolize? In asking that question, are you not familiar with the double tetrahedral structure imposed inside your spherical planet that would determine the points on which those upwellings would occur? It is in and out. It is simply what you would call the latitude generally that is represented by the contact of the points of the tetrahedral structure. The double tetrahedrin inverted in and out up and down structure as imposed inside of a sphere. When you have an upside down, right side up double tetrahedral structure or what is actually referred to as a stellar octangular. You follow? That is your proper name for it. Stella octangula. When you have a stellar octangular inside of a sphere, the point of the tetrahedrin will contact the sphere in your measurements at what you call 19.5 north and south latitude. And that is where you will find on most of your planets the idea of energy inwellings and upwellings such as gaseous cloud, hurricane anomalies, and volcanic activity and so forth. That's 19.5.

**Mission, Trust, Center, and Choice**

You and then the mail. Number two, do you know who you are? Number two, do you know who you are? Male. Thank you. Number one, good day. Good day to you, Bashar. Can you define for me um your mission with the earth plane and how that works? Yes. My mission is to have fun. Great. Now that is a simple answer I wanted to meet. But the idea is is my choice is to have accepted the invitation of your collective consciousness to interact with you to reflect to you the joy in being yourself by seeing the reflection of the joy I receive from being myself. This so-called mission is simply a side effect of being myself. It has nothing to do in that sense really with an intentional mission in the sense that I think you need to have me do this. But in accepting the invitation to interact with you and in being myself, which I cannot help but be, the idea is that I present to you a level of existence that works for us, that can work for all of you in your own way. And I am happy to share this with you. And that is the extent of my so-called mission. The side effects, however, of each and every one of you choosing to let my energy rub off on you, choosing to operate on a similar frequency as I do will be profound change in your own individual life and profound change in the collective consciousness of your entire planet towards the idea of the creation of joy and love. And therefore, in that sense, you could say that is a side effect of my interaction with you. But to really call it a mission is beside the point. Did that make sense to you? Yes, it did. And what I'm hearing you say this evening? Yes. Is that we must learn to trust ourselves more. That loving ourselves consists of looking not outside of ourselves but rather inside of ourselves. Yes. Knowing that we have many beings to help us. Yes. And when the pins and that you are helping many beings by being yourself. But if you're not yourself, who can you help? Exactly.

But when the pins are being removed, Yes. I guess what I stumble with and struggle with is maintaining that center that knowing that this too shall pass while you're in it. Yes. It feels like you are in a tsunami. Absolutely. And that's the way it's supposed to feel. Okay. You are not supposed to maintain the center. That's the problem. Okay. You are supposed to go with the flow. So that by going with the flow no matter how it feels and no matter what you experience in going with the flow, you will then know that by being willing to accept all of that as a part of who you are, you will know you have never left the center. And that's what will allow you to experience the fact that you have never left the center. It's not about maintaining the center. It's about knowing you never left and cannot leave even though you may make it appear as if you have. That's the difference. Okay. So, we've entered a curriculum of unlearning. Oh, a curriculum. Of unlearning. Yes. Everything we've been taught. Yes. Well, not everything. Well, um I think that the basic truths are within us. We have every answer we need within us. Of course. Of course. That's what we are reflecting to all of you. You don't need us. you have it all, but we're happy to reflect that you don't need us and have it all.



**Angel Energy, Playfulness, and Children as Reminders**

I am very attracted to the angel energy. Oh, all right. And once you learn how to become more playful and I think that that childlike there's a little child here in this room this evening. It is the most beautiful reflection. Happy birthday of how that center looks. Yes, it is free. It is expression of absolutely all of you are exactly the same way but you have been taught to forget that and she doesn't come to us saying what do you think I should do yes she just does it however at the same time it's all right to allow the experience of going to someone and saying what do you think I should do to be all right as long as it is part of the balanced understanding that that is simply one experience you can have in being yourself as long as it's not truly a giving away of the power or a pretending to. It can still even in that action be a part of being knowing that you are still in the center if you do it that way. You follow that? Oh yes. All right. So yes, she is an example of that. Absolutely. She is the reminder. All children in that sense are the reminder for all of you as to who you actually are. Yes. That's why you keep having them to remind you of who you are. So that you really won't in that sense ultimately forget because you will surround yourself with little reminders of who you actually are. That is the real reason why you have created a life form for yourself on your planet wherein you have offspring.

Do you follow? Yes. By loving our choices, by loving ourselves. Yes. We are I guess giving to the universe what we came here to do. Is that correct? Yes. Because in that you were created to be a unique you. Then only by really being that unique you do you allow the experience to exist for the universe for the infinite creation to experience itself as the unique you that you are.

**Negative Experiences, Judgment, and Loving Feelings**

Okay. So when I'm having what I consider to be a negative experience because I have judged that. Yeah. Well, that's part of the experience too. In that sense, you can't really judge having had judgment because that is a part of the experience. At the same time, you can recognize that that experiential consequence is maybe not what you prefer. And you can use the experience of having judged yourself to then make a choice to not judge yourself in the future. But you can use the judgment in a constructive way that way while at the same time allow the experience of judgment to be valid for what it is and not judge the experience of having judged yourself. Well, does that make sense in your language? It does. But there is one clarification. Yes. In there that I think I want to point out by all means which would be that in the experience of this judging of oneself. Yes. I have read recently that if we choose to say I love this feeling, yes, not judge it and not hold any kind of um animosity toward ourselves, that it will pass and it will transform. It will that's it. And we want transformation and transmutation. Yes, that's how it works. If you feel sad. If for some reason you choose to feel mad, own and accept the feeling. Don't deny it. Don't run away from say, "Oh, I shouldn't feel this way." Accept it because that's what happened. But in accepting it, it's gone.

Because part of our unlearning here, yes, is all these rules. Well, Jesus and Buddha, a would behave this way. So I feel that there's ret retribution coming to me because I can't love so and so the way I think they are the stories that you tell yourselves. Yes. Yes. So and this has absolutely nothing at all to do really with what the beings called Jesus and Buddha actually taught. Exactly.

Okay. That's um to me something I feel that my call here on earth is to share that with everyone in this room. Well, if that's the expression of being who you are, then all well and good. But the only mission you have is to be yourself. Anything else is simply an expression, an expression of the goal that is already achieved, which is simply being the best you you can be. That is the only goal, the only mission, the only purpose you have is to be you as best as you can. Any way you choose to express it is an expression of it. But those expressions themselves are not the goals, missions, and purposes. Exactly. You follow. Thank you for the hope that you share with all of us. Thank you for the the time and the energy that you put forth for us. We really really thank you for that. Ours absolute and unconditional and neverending pleasure for we learn as well.

**Holographic Reality, Film Strip Analogy, and Choosing Preferred Realities**

You can be number three. Number two. Thank you Bashar. Hello you good day. Thank you Bashar. Hello you good day. I'd like to check with you as to how accurate the picture of reality is that I'm developing. Oh my, this could lead to something interesting perhaps. I hope um check your picture of reality and see how accurate it is. Okay. Um what is your picture of reality? Well, I'm basing my understanding sort of an analogy. Yes. Um using the concept of uh movie film strips, you know, are made up of frames. This is what we have used as an analogy many times to describe the idea of the structure of your physical reality and can work for certain illustrative purposes. Yes. Oh, okay. I didn't know you had used it. I was I was Okay. Well, then in my version of it, I see a reality as sort of uh an infinite number of sort of holographic frames of frozen movement. And you get the illusion of movement and linear time uh by sort of shining the light of consciousness through each frame as Is that how Okay. All right. Good. That's that's good to hear. Um Oh, I'm glad that you think that's good to hear. Well, yeah. I wanted to I want to have an accurate picture of how things work cuz I'm trying to remember that is still only at best an analogy no matter what. But it is a good working analogy as long as you remember that's all it is. It is not a description of reality. It is only a description about reality. Understood. All right. Thank you. In that sense, it is perfectly accurate.

Okay. So, uh given that then I understand you to say that we have the choice to move our consciousness through any any stream. Yes. You can illuminate any aspect of the hologram you wish. It's all there. It's all here. It's all now. Whatever angle your reference beam is coming from determines the reality experience that is reflected back from the mirror of physical reality which is what it is. It's a mirror.

Okay. So, in the s also using your analogy of the library and taking books out. Yes. We've in the past discussed that some of the books that contain what most people would see as very scary scenarios, one or simply non-preferential experiences. Yeah. Right. One could take a book out like I did today for example and read about a story about how there's an imminent in some a reality there's an imminent uh a terrorist attack that's supposed to take out most of the major cities in this country using a bubonic plague. Yes. and anthrax. And these things are in a sense certainly possibilities and in many reality streams may even be probabilities and in a few reality streams based on the collective consciousness may be absolute certainties. Okay. So, but there are an infinite number of earth reality experiences. And as I understand what you're saying, I can choose not to go into that particular reality and move into a different reality stream where that terrorist attack doesn't happen. Yes.

But the way that we usually express it is this. You don't have to even really think about it that way as if, oh, there's a reality I have to avoid. There's a reality I must be aware not to create. That in fact is contradictory to what we are saying and actually focuses your energy on it. The idea is to simply be who you want to be. Be who you prefer to be and just let the frequency that you are determine what are the things that are then gerine for you to experience and allow whatever it is that energy brings you to be the things that are representative of the reality you prefer. Knowing that no matter what form it may take in the outside world, you by simply being who you are will only extract a constructive outcome or experience from it, no matter how it looks. So don't insist that it shouldn't look this way or shouldn't happen that way. Just know that no matter how it manifests itself in symbolic form, which is all physical reality is, it won't make a difference in its effect in your life in terms of the constructive experience you will extract from it. If you go out of your way to say that's a reality I don't prefer, that's a reality I don't prefer. That's a reality I have to make sure I avoid. That's a reality I have to make sure I concentrate. doesn't happen. All you're doing is saying what you don't want and not really focusing your energy on what you do want, which then simply automatically makes no room for what doesn't apply. Do you see the difference in that behavioral context and approach?

**Defining Self and the Paradox of Selfishness**

I do. I'm not. And I hear you saying that I shouldn't. I didn't say shouldn't. Okay. Well, that well, but if you want a certain effect, then we are simply suggesting that you don't concentrate on what you want to avoid. You simply be who you know you are, and it will automatically eliminate anything that doesn't belong. And whatever it is that does happen, you have to assume and accept that no matter how it looks, it will only have a positive constructive outcome for you.

Okay. But I I if when I'm trying to come up with the definition of myself as to who who I want to be, who I really are you attempting to define yourself by what you see on the outside? Well, that's backwards. Well, yeah, that's part of it. And that's backwards. That's why you're having difficulty. Okay. You define yourself by who you say you are. You define yourself by what definitions you choose to believe are the definitions that define you. Period. Period. You don't judge a book by its cover. You don't go by the outside idea. You don't say, "Oh, because now I am not seeing this or because I am seeing this, that means then I know how to define myself." No, because that's only a reflection. It is not what determines how you define yourself. Only the definition will determine how you experience what happens.

Many things, even if you are defining yourself as a positive and constructive being, many things may still on the surface appear to happen in a certain way that others may define as negative. But that has no meaning for you if you define yourself as a positive being. It doesn't matter how it appears in its form because you know that every form carries with it the ability to pull from it both a positive and a destructive experiential meaning. So it doesn't matter how it looks. What difference does that make to you? As long as you know that no matter how it looks, you will only glean and extract a positive and constructive experience from it. So why do you care how it looks? Because I feel selfish if all I care is how it affects me. No, you're missing the point. Okay, I understand what you are saying. But the point is we are not saying that you only care how it affects you. The point is is that you cannot demonstrate to anyone else that they also have the ability to allow any experience to affect them only in a positive way unless you are showing them by example. Do you follow? Caring by choosing to only be affected in a positive way for yourself. You are caring for everyone else by providing the living example that they can also imitate. Okay. Yes. There is no other way to allow them to learn to choose that except by providing the example for them. And that means you have to do it for yourself.

And by doing it for yourself, if that is your truth, by being your true self, you are not just doing it for yourself. That's the power of paradox. When you have one side of the coin, you automatically have the other side. or you have no coin. So the point is strengthen the side you are and that will be the way to allow the other side to automatically also be complete. It may seem contradictory to the way your people have been taught but that's only because of the way your people have been taught. If you do it with the openhearted understanding that that's how you're doing it and that it will benefit everyone else, then it will not be a negatively selfish act. It will not have negatively selfish consequences because you know why you're doing it and your behavior will follow suit and you will find yourself attracted into the circumstances that will demonstrate to you how doing it for yourself will also help other people and rub off on them and give them an opportunity to see that they can do it for themselves as well. Does that make sense? Yes, it's great. It's very very helpful. Thank you.



### **Cabala Template and Following Excitement**

I found that if in my experience is if I go into it with the idea of transforming and it doesn't work. I have to go into it with the idea of going into it. 

You have to own it completely and allow it to be what it is or it cannot transform. If you go into it with the intention of changing it, it will stubbornly sit there until you accept it for what it is first. 

Um, it's well discovered, well experienced. Well, I'm just reflecting back to you your experience of it. So, um, the the I wonder I've been studying the Cababala. Um, and I I was wondering if it it excited you to maybe speak about the Cababala and maybe some misconceptions or something that we might have.

We have to some degree spoken about the idea that the cababala law in general does represent the underlying template structure of physical reality as your consciousness sees fit to arrange and order it. It is therefore one representation of what is called the template andor if you wish to be poetic the bones of God the underlying foundational structure of how your physical reality arranges itself in energy consciousness terms and contents. It is not that it is in that sense inaccurate, but there are many interpretations on it, surrounding it, clinging to it, but that is also simply the simple understanding that that's what it is, a foundational relationship that talks about relationship and ratio and the idea of how your consciousness expresses itself as a physical reality. 

And many things can be learned. Many keys can be learned from it that can unlock the idea of what reality is and allow your perception more free reign if you use it that way.


### **Excitement, Intuition, and Dreams/Symbols**

I have this idea of taking one does not lead to the other unless you choose it. Well, I'm not sure that the shortest I you said last time that things take time sometimes because you live in a world of space and time. 

I'm wondering if the shortest distance between two points is actually driving across country to New York right now. I don't know. You have to follow your intuition. I'm not sure that it's necessary, but All right. um then save your gas, but it's up to you to decide. It just might be a lot of fun to do it even. 

Then again, yeah, the primary question, as you already know, and as I already know, you already know, is is it truly representative of your highest joy? Now, remember again, sometimes when an example presents itself to you that seems to contain the highest amount of joy, take some action in that direction as best you can. It doesn't always mean that when something presents itself to you that is representative of highest joy that it must always come to absolute fruition or be acted out all the way. 

It will show you whether or not you need to go all the way with it. But sometimes something presents itself to you with that excitement just to get you to move in that direction to some degree. Sometimes just a little bit is sufficient, but it may have required the appearance of it needing to go all the way to get you even to take a step. So don't assume when you follow your action and your excitement and your joy that you necessarily have to let that thing go all the way, but take the step and see if it still excites you. And if it still does excite you after step one and still excites you after step two and still excites you after mile three and still excites you after mile four, then by all means keep following it because why would you want to do anything else? 

But if then your excitement shifts, follow that. You don't have to assume anything. Just act on the excitement to the best of your ability that you're capable of doing and see whether or not it shows you it has to come to some absolute playout or whether it is just attempting to get you to a certain point from which you can more easily move in another direction because sometimes that's what it takes. You need the carrot to lure you so far and you don't necessarily have to go all the way in that direction. You may need to take a side step but you had to get here before you could go there more easily. That's the point of how your excitement attracts you. 

I spoke to Dr. Papus who was in Vancouver. I missed him when he was here, but I kept at it. Oh, what? And we did connect. 

We both started shouting at the same time like old times, but we were not directing our anger at each other. So it was it was very very good to talk to him again. ... [continues with dream symbols, White Bear and Rhinoceros metaphors, Charging full speed ahead, health explorations with arthritis/horse, etc.]


## Zen Attitude, Inner Child, Integration, and Trust

I've been feeling pretty destabilized. There's a part of me that does take a very... well, that's the reality of it for now. 

The idea of a Zen attitude is a perspective as well as the feeling of being of this the inner child.

How these two reconcile, because my understanding with integration is that everybody gets to come along, so to speak. So I don't know how to reconcile positions. Reconcile what? Well, because as the inner child within me might feel a great deal of pain about something, whereas I can move into a Zen perspective again.

**Bashar:** You assume there's no pain in Zen.

**Questioner:** I definitely can feel it there. It's just a lot more tolerable.

**Bashar:** Tolerable. What an interesting experience. All right, I'll tolerate the pain. Does that make me Zen?

**Questioner:**
Well, and sometimes I can even enjoy it.

**Bashar:**
I did not even suggest necessarily that you had to enjoy it. But simply pointing out that it is erroneous to assume that there isn't necessarily pain in them [Zen states]. Therefore, there is nothing to reconcile. So, it's just different versions of the same experience. Yes. But you can go further than that.

**Questioner:**
Well, I guess that's where I'm confused.

**Bashar:**
Oh, all right. Thank you. Can you be more specific about the area of apparent confusion?

**Questioner:**
Um, yeah. Like sometimes I'll get in touch with the child within myself and I experience a lot. Well, I'm very sensitive about being humiliated.

**Bashar:**
Oh, boy. Did you just hand us a big button?

**Questioner:**
Oh, like you didn't know it was there already. Of course I did. But you know, I'm being respectful. Nevertheless, never the more. I like feeling vulnerable.

**Bashar:**
Yes, I know. And I understand that you are learning about the power that does exist in vulnerability. True vulnerability. We understand that. And you are doing well with that. Congratulations.

**Questioner:**
Thank you. Stroke. Scope. Stroke. And now... Max, Max, Max. Oh, I know. But I know it's not this or that. It's this and that. You made that on my computer 350 times. And at the same time.

**Bashar:** The pain the inner child will feel from time to time... to live in it, to accept it, to feel it, to understand why it is there, the Zen of it. Again, remember that story works for you in this particular context as well about the samurai and learning what heaven and hell is all about. 

Because in a sense, being made to feel his anger so strongly by the Zen master, was he not in that sense being given an opportunity to feel all his pain?

**Questioner:**
Yeah. It's like I won't choose the anger though. I'll choose the pain.

**Bashar:**
Yes, I know. But that was the idea simply that it is a choice.

**Questioner:**
Anger seems fruitless.

**Bashar:**
No, it is not fruitless. But the idea is that if you do experience it, you can still learn from it. And it's all right to experience it because the anger can put you in touch with something you didn't know about yourself and can give you a perspective of the opposite side in that circumstantial context.

**Questioner:**
Yeah, I know. And a part of me I did partly enjoy it. Yes. But the idea again is that yes, you can find that you can learn to respond with some degree of attached detachment and so-called neutrality and calm centered peace in situations that other individuals may automatically react to with anger. But the idea simply is is that when you do that, that's fine and you do that. But if there simply is still situations in which you react with anger, that's fine, too.

**Questioner:**
Yeah. Well, what happens is I can choose the Zen position, but then I feel it being eroded by other aspects of myself that don't feel that way. How fascinating that you have turned yourself into such an interesting committee.

**Bashar:**
Perhaps you should take a vote on exactly what the majority really feels like doing.

**Questioner:**
Well, right now the child still wins.

**Bashar:**
Still wins. Then does not everyone win?

**Questioner:**
I haven't gotten there yet.

**Bashar:**
All right. Well, that's all well and good, but that is in a sense what you are working on: discussing in your committee how everyone can win.

**Questioner:**
All right. And yeah, and that it can't be ignored. Certainly not.

**Bashar:**
Well, no. Believe me, you will create scenarios that will force you to see it. You will not ignore it because you have already made the commitment to be who you are.

**Questioner:**
Well, and that's how I honor the child within myself. Yes.

**Bashar:**
But that's what integration is all about. It's not the homogenization and the blending of all those aspects within you. It is the agreement that for every aspect that remains distinct and individually discreet, there is simply a win-win situation for all of them so that they become congruent and coherent and work together because they all know they win. And that simply takes getting down to the fundamental wish fulfillment that every single aspect requires. Instead of getting stuck on the methodology by which many of you think each aspect needs to have its wishes fulfilled, just get into the fundamental wish itself. And you will find that when you simplify it to the fundamental wish—"I want to feel loved"—then you can find any number of ways to fulfill that fundamental wish for any and all aspects within you. And they can all come to some form of agreement instead of insisting that it has to be done this way or that.

***

### **Symbolism of the Snake and Trusting the Self**

**Questioner:**
Yes, that's all right. It can feel autistic sometimes. And then I'm sitting there talking about Zen Masters and recognizing that concept, and suddenly I look up and there's a snake in my office staring at me. And I slept with that snake for two days.

**Bashar:**
Very good. Congratulations. Last minute slithered out. All right. And you are seeing a symbol again of ancient wisdom. A reflection of ancient knowledge and commitment to be the self. Conviction to be the self. That is its general symbol. And also that it can slip in between the cracks and get in where other things cannot, which is what you are asking it to do: to snake in there and root out those things that are difficult for other parts of you to discover. But it'll find them. It'll snake them out. Isn't that why you call the idea of one of your plumbing instruments a "snake," to go in there and root out the clog? So, it still comes down to that fundamental feeling of trust for yourself that whatever you create for yourself, you can get at these things.

**Questioner:**
Well, you know, as you say in your language, bottom line, who else is there to put your trust in?

**Bashar:**
There is the infinite, but that's you. Remember that you are, each and every one of you, the infinite experiencing itself as a separate part of the infinite. So, who else is there to trust?

**Questioner:**
Right? But being a physical being and trying to make sense of some of the things that happen in one's life is part of the fun. And that's why I'm having so much fun with myself, you know.

**Bashar:**
That's why you chose it, cuz you knew how challenging and interesting and creative it would be. And boy, did you get what you asked for.

**Questioner:**
You're not kidding. I just hope I have some buffers here so that...

**Bashar:**
Of course you do. If you didn't, you probably would have combusted long ago. You are all creating the buffers you need. You know what you're doing. Remember, you know what you're doing. All you need to do is trust that a little bit more, and then you will know a little bit more certainly that you do know what you're doing. And the more you know you know what you're doing, the more you know you know what you're doing.

***

### **Reconciling Past Lives and The Age of Choice**

**Questioner:**
So how do you reconcile that with earlier lifetimes? Like, reconcile with being, you know, a witch or being burned at the stake? How you reconcile it?

**Bashar:**
You reconcile it by not reconciling it. You reconcile it by being in the now. I don't mean ignore it. That's not what I mean by not reconcile. What I mean is you drop the need to have that mechanism of reconciliation by knowing that everything you define yourself to be is here and now. You bring that into the present. That's how you reconcile anything in the past. You don't leave it in the past. You make it now. You make it here. You make it now. And you say, "What do I prefer to get out of this experience that I have brought into my present?"

**Questioner:**
So, what's changed now that one wouldn't manifest something horrible like that for themselves?

**Bashar:**
Your willingness and awareness that you are in charge of choosing what you prefer. So it's by being more conscious now you don't have to create that, whereas before perhaps you just decided to have the ride and have the experience. Yes. But this is the transformational age wherein you are made aware that you can bring every so-called past incident into the present and heal it or do whatever you want to do with it.

**Bashar:** stand up on your chair for a moment. Let's say I asked you to simply fall backwards. Would you do it at this very moment?

**Questioner:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
Would you choose to do it?

**Questioner:**
No, I would not Because I'd get hurt.

**Bashar:** It's as simple as that, isn't it? It's that easy. 

Because I'm conscious. You are bringing the choice that you had about the idea of consequences in one situation that you call the past into the present. And you're saying, "Hm, let's see. Am I going to choose to do that now? 

No, I don't think so. I definitely have made that choice. I am not." Then sit down and stop worrying. It's that simple. There is nothing there that has power to make you fall over backwards and hurt yourself. It is time for you to awaken to the fact that it's all in your hands to choose. No matter what has happened in the past, no matter what you think might happen in the future, the whole point is to be in the present and simply know that the choices you make are it. That's what it's all about. What you choose is what you are. That's who you are. Period. If you don't prefer what you have chosen, learn from what you have chosen. Accept it, respect it, and then choose what you prefer based on what you have learned from choosing what you don't prefer. That's it. It's that simple, if you are willing to let it be. But that's up to you, too, because that's another choice. That's all there is. Choice, choice, choice, choice, choice.

**Questioner:**
Oh, no. It's the age of choice. There's so many different things to choose from.

**Bashar:**
Yes, that is exactly correct. That's why everything is coming out in the open. Everything is coming out of the woodwork. Everything is being put on the table. That's why there are so many negative positive choices in so many different directions because this is the age of choice. "Choose thou."

**Questioner:**
Oh, I am.

**Bashar:**
That's what that means. "Choose thou." It means you have nothing but choice. That's all there has ever been. That's all there will ever be. Reality is choice. That's it. The choices you make are your reality. Your reality is nothing but the choices you make. Never has been anything else, never will be. That's it. "Choose thou" is the doctrine from the infinite creator. Meaning you are free ultimately, utterly, infinitely free. Choose thou.

**Questioner:**
It sounds like "choose thyself" too.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Choose thou, and then you will know what thou needs to choose. Because when you choose thou, when you choose you, you will see that you contain all you need to choose. You are a complete kit.

**Questioner:**
Yeah. It really is a matter of trusting that part of myself much more fully, that bigger expanded version of myself.

**Bashar:**
Yes. And being that bigger expanded version and not necessarily seeing it as a bigger expanded version, just seeing it as the you you prefer to be and not really making a comparison. That's the point. Stop making comparisons. All of you stop making comparisons. Look at the little measuring stick. Oh yes, this I measure this comparison better than more than. Stop making comparisons. Just be who you prefer to be. 


### **The Nature of Love, Trust, and Higher Knowledge**

**Questioner:**
Exclamation point. Oh, sure. Yes. I sort of experienced my higher self similar to you all in the sense that it knows where the pins are and its agenda. However...

**Bashar:**
Remember, please remember, do not give me more abilities than I actually exhibit. I know where the pins are when I need to know. I don't know until I need to know. I have no idea where any of your pins are right now except the one I need to know about at this moment. What difference does it make?

**Questioner:**
It doesn't.

**Bashar:**
That's the point. You get it? I don't know anything until I need to know it. Then I know it. But until I need to know it, I don't know it. That's the point.

**Questioner:**
So, how does one learn to love and trust that aspect of... learn?

**Bashar:**
Yes. One already loves and trusts. Don't you get it? It's just a question of: what are you loving and trusting in? You already love and trust. Don't you get it? We have said it countless times. You don't need to learn to love. You don't need to learn to trust. You've got it already. You always do it. The question is, what do you love? What do you trust?

**Questioner:**
I love to be intelligent.

**Bashar:**
Then be intelligent and love yourself. Love a psychological thriller on...

**Questioner:**
Thank you. I know.

**Bashar:**
Then that's what you get. That's all there is to it. You all love, you all trust. All of you. All of you love and trust. But you are taught definitions and you believe in those definitions. And you place your love and your trust in those definitions. But everything any of you do, even murder, is because you're doing what you think—what you have been taught to believe—is the act, the only act you know how to do that expresses the idea of wanting to reach out and connect. But that may be the only way you have been taught to do it. When you understand that many of you have been taught destructive behaviors as your expression of attempting to connect to the love of the infinite, you will then realize you have a choice between destructive and constructive behaviors. But most of you, many of you, are not taught the difference. But it doesn't mean you don't love. It simply means you only have one kind of technique to express that love in, and it is only the destructive side. That's the difference.

**Questioner:**
So discerning better and better when you're involved in that as opposed to positive expression.

**Bashar:**
Choice.

**Questioner:**
I like choice.

