---
title: "Getting Organized"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1997-08-15
icon: Bashar
weight: 245
showdate: true
---



You can find yourself sometimes becoming a little bit frozen in action -- you ponder this and ponder that, this opportunity, that opportunity, this doorway, that doorway, what to do, when to do it, how to do it, how to go about it, which thing to act on. 

There are many ways to allow yourself to focus on what really contains at any given moment the highest amount of excitement.

But to bring it down to very basic, fundamental and simplistic methodologies, you can simply take advantage of what many people on your planet have already suggested as a method for organizing your perspectives, organizing your thoughts.

This has a very clarifying effect, especially in your civilization where you rely on the idea of a spoken language, a written language.

When you find yourself perhaps standing in the eye of a thought hurricane with everything spinning around you wondering exactly what to do and all these thoughts going through your head. You will find that it actually will be of great benefit if you will simply take the time to stop and literally physically write down everything you think needs to be done. Write it down with your instruments, your pencils, your pens on your paper. Write it down if you wish. Type it out, but put it into some kind of physicalized form. Doesn't have to be in any particular order. Just get your thoughts out on paper visually before your eyes. You will find if you have never really done this, you will find great clarity and great organization beginning to automatically come to you in this process.

Things will start to make sense. You will see what really needs to be done and perhaps what doesn't need to be done, what needs to be done now, what doesn't need to be done now. Allow yourself this simplistic organizational tool of writing things down, getting the thoughts out of your head so that they're not simply sitting there as a buzz, as a generalized buzz in your head, all a jumble. Put them down.

Questions you may have, how can I do this? What could I do next? Notes to remind yourself, this needs doing. I will do this today, tomorrow. What are the steps necessary in doing what it is I want to do? 

Write them down as you believe them to exist. They don't have to remain true, but the idea is that getting them out of your head, writing them on paper, giving yourself an opportunity to actually visually see them before you will help begin the automatic process of elimination and the automatic process of reinforcement of those things that do not belong and those things that do, of those things that are paramount and those things that are not.

You will find that as you utilize your physical environment to aid and assist you in this way, as your piece of paper becomes, shall we say, your secretary, your organizer, your manager, it will in fact begin to function that way. As you see the sentences written down before you, you will find great clarity coming in because you will be making room for other thoughts to come in that will augment and amplify and reinforce and clarify all the things that you are spilling out through your hand, through your pen, through your pencil, through your computer machines, through your typing machines onto the paper.

This will begin a flow that will allow more things to come in and those things that come in will find the places they belong. And you will start making notes. You will find yourself automatically saying, "Well, this belongs with that. This augments that, this clarifies that point. This helps reinforce this." You will start to see it all fit together very very clearly. The more you create for yourself, if you want to call it the habit of getting your thoughts about things out on paper, don't substitute this for action. Don't substitute this for doing, for acting on those things that are your joy.

But allow it to augment as a tool to assist you as a tool to organize, to clarify. Because if you keep all these things sometimes in your head, you will find that all you do is walk through life juggling these ideas, these thoughts, they never really fall into place. They never really give you some kind of direction or understanding or clarity about the things that really excite you and how it is you can actually physically go about taking some action upon them, which is of course, as we have said many times, absolutely critical. The action that you take is the critical component that brings your imagination and your visualization down to earth, so to speak. 

Pun intended, if you wish. Allow yourself this opportunity to use your written language as a tool in one of the most powerful ways it can assist you. Get it out. Get your thoughts out in symbolic form before your eyes physically and see the reflections that come back when you can see your thoughts written down. Don't just let them rattle around in your head. Otherwise, they just do just that.

Rattle, rattle, rattle, rattle, rattle, and never really go much of anywhere. You will see the difference. You will see. We thank you for allowing us to simply reflect to you this basic fundamental principle. And in return once again we ask for the gift that you are giving our civilization in having this experience with you. How at this time may I and my world be of service to you. You good day.

Hi Bashar. I had a dream this morning that I wanted to ask you. Yes. It confuses me. It confuses you. All right. In this dream, it was as if I was watching this scene unfold, guys. And this woman was with a young girl who was physically handicapped or something. She was incapable of taking care of herself, guys. And this older woman decided to neglect her and allow her to die. Just leave her, guys. And then the woman went back to check on her like three days later to see if she had died. And I was just kind of squirming as I saw this because I thought that she'd be dead. And the woman went to where the girl was and looked at her. And the girl looked up and just gave her this huge smile. Yes. And that was all that I can remember. And this confuses you. Yeah. Oh, I see. All right. What is the first principle of any dream? Do you remember? We talked about this in general many times. Whether or not the dream is a recollection of a real so to speak event or an actual experience in an astral or etheric dimension or simply the memory of the day's happenings. Doesn't matter what the foundation or basis is for the dream. Whether it is a literal memory or a symbolic representation. The first principle of clarifying the communication of your dreams for yourself is to remember that every single thing in the dream is an aspect of you. Mhm. So if you begin by remembering that then you will begin to have a handle as you say on what these things may be communicating what you may be communicating to yourself through this particular modality. Uh huh. So in the idea of what at first appears to be the neglect of a component of an aspect of yourself left to die, left to wither and die. And yet when you believe that this being this aspect should be dead, still it looks up and smiles. Mhm. What does that say to you? It never died. It never died because you are indestructible. But you can let go of things that do not necessarily work for you. You do not have to be afraid of letting those things go. Letting those things go that are no longer germane for you is not really the same thing as neglect. You will not die. That aspect of yourself that no longer serves you will not really die. It will simply transform into what it needs to be for the new you that you are so that you can move ahead. And it will rear up from the ashes of the so-called death, look at you square in the eye and smile at you and say, "See, I could never really die. I could only change because change is the only constant. There is no real ultimate death in the sense that things actually cease to exist. They only transform. And so in this dream, as we perceive it, as you have said it to us, as you have related it to us, you are dealing with that portion of yourself, that vestige of a fear of letting go of an old you. Thinking in the old frame of mind that to let it go somehow represents neglect. When in fact what you need to do is simply know that you are divesting yourself of those accoutrements that no longer serve you. Of the baggage you no longer need to carry, of the belief systems that are no longer germane for who it is you are creating yourself to be, and that it's all right to do so, that is not neglect. Do you follow this? Yes. Is this making some sense to you? Yes it is. And how do you feel about this idea, this perspective? For remember our perspective is only just that. Does it strike a chord or do you now find that there are other ways you can look at this idea symbolically? I think there are a lot of different ways I can look at it. That's one that I hadn't thought of. I like that. All right. And I think another way too is seeing that that is a part to be rediscovered and that it's like a piece of magic that maybe was left behind. And when you rediscover it, it won't be angry that you left it behind, but happy that you came back for it. Exactly. So you are recollecting yourself, recollecting. Do you understand? You are remembering more and more and more of the pieces. And this goes for all of you now in this transformational age, remembering more and more of the pieces you created your consciousness to be broken up into and are now gathering yourself back together. Remembering who you are to become more holistic, more homogeneous in that sense, more holographically connected. Do you understand? So yes, you found yourself discovering, rediscovering a portion of yourself that perhaps in some senses of the word has been neglected, but can never die. You can never really absolutely truly set any part of your consciousness truly aside. You can pretend that you have for a long time. You can create it to seem like it's been a long time. But since all time is now, it never really has been set aside. You have only been creating a scenario that makes it seem so. And now that you remember that you have done this, you are perhaps now through playing the pretend game of actually having cut that portion of yourself off. And now you can remember that it's still there and call it your own once again and stop playing the game of breaking yourself up into pieces and forgetting who you are. That is also what this dream remembers itself to be in you and is a positive sign that you are gathering yourself, your whole self back together. You follow, and in that sense you are literally waking up, right? Does this make some sense to you? Yes. Yes. Do you find this of benefit? Yes, I sure do. And can I discuss with you another aspect that this I don't know. Can you? May I? I will like. You don't have to ask permission. Okay. I also see this in a symbolic way. I'm not I don't quite understand the whole picture, but sort of of my mother and I in the dream. Nice. Because when I was a little girl, I was really sick. And I remember her sort of as my lifeline because she really took care of me and took me to the hospital every month and I don't think I would have physically survived without her attention. Maybe, maybe not. So, and so, I wonder, I mean, she really took care of me physically, but emotionally, I think there were some things missing. All right. And so, maybe it's also that sense of rediscovering even though I felt lonely in that relationship. Yes. You are now learning how to nurture yourself and in some senses raise yourself and be your own maternal parent. Yes, you are now feeding your soul. Yes, you may have been physically fed. You may have been physically cared for, but now you are caring for your spirit, for your emotional health and well-being. Yes, this job is now fallen unto you as a so-called adult. No offense. No offense. Yes, no offense. We understand that many times when we recognize that the majority of your species are actually still children, many of you may take offense at that, but no offense is intended. Okay, you may be physiologically adults, but because of the compartmentalization and the fragmentation that has occurred on your planet and because of how your parents in that they themselves were raised this way may have also raised you, it may simply be that the majority of people on your planet have actually never really been allowed to truly grow into actual adults. They are simply big children. Uh huh. Yes. But no offense is intended in saying this. It is simply to point out that you are now given the opportunity to raise yourselves to true adulthood by claiming your true spiritual and emotional heritage and health and breaking the chain that has been perpetuated on your planet for thousands of years of the idea of what you now refer to as dysfunctionality. You follow? Yes. That's beautiful. I also discovered another part of myself today that made me very happy. Day of discovery. What did you find? I was lying on the table in Network Chiropractic and being worked on and I started to visualize the dolphins like I do all a lot of the time. Yes. And I really want to swim with them. I've been thinking about this a lot. I will. Oh, all right. And I just got this clear vision and belief that when I swim with them, it will be like a reunion, like a family reunion. And for many of you again you are the same kind of incarnational soul. Many of you that are human have been dolphin. Many dolphin have been human and vice versa so to speak. You will find that as you discover more and more of yourself, you will reencounter many family members that you have that may have simply chosen to incarnate in this life as dolphin rather than as human. Yeah, that's what I felt. And I was so happy. I just cried and cried and cried. Oh, all right. Attempting to create your own ocean to swim in, perhaps. Yes, it was wonderful. Thank you. Thank you. You good day. Nice. Good day.

Last time you said to continue soaking. Yes. Did you know that I had been soaking in the tub as well? Yes. That answers my question. All right. Does that answer it? That's one of them. I was wondering, yes. I don't know if I have anything in me like this, but I think I've heard something that something can be put in our eye that then somebody at another spot can see what we're seeing. Yes, this can be done. Such technology does exist. Yes. Who looks at the screen or who gets to look at what we're seeing? Obviously, the being that implanted such a thing. So like my hybrid children would not see what I saw. You said they only feel what I feel. Sometimes they see what you see. But they wouldn't be having access to that kind of information. That kind of technology is unnecessary for them since they are empathically bound to you in that sense. They do not require the idea of technology to literally see what you see. They can link and or junction and or merge more empathically with you. And along with many of the feelings that they may share that you are having, they can also heighten that experience, focus that experience, that empathic bond strongly enough to sometimes literally physically see what it is you see. Do I have anything like that in my eyes? No, it isn't necessary as we have just explained. However, you may feel that the focus takes place there from time to time because of the strength of the empathic bond at any given moment. But it doesn't require a literal device, but you may be sensitive to the focal point that is utilized when the empathic bond is created that allows them to see what you see. Okay. Another thing, a couple months ago, it was at the end of June, I asked you about, there was like really sore, swollen part of my nose and I had that burnt sweet smell. Smell. Yes. And that happened a couple nights ago. All right. Again, yes. Again, this is common with certain interactions for a variety of reasons. Yes. Can you tell me anything about what happens in that kind of an interaction? There can be a variety of things, but more often than not, when an individual may experience the vestiges of what you are reporting as the acrid sweet smell, sometimes described as burning smell, and so forth. More often than not, not always, but more often than not, this will be indicative of the presence of technological devices that have been utilized that are based on certain electromagnetic frequencies and may instill within your bio electromagnetic field a potentiality difference. Do you understand this sort of? In other words, adjustments are made or occur due to proximity and interaction to some of this technology and this can have the lingering after effects that you are describing. Oh, do I have an implant in the right side of my nose? There have been from time to time, but not at present. There's nothing in there right now. No. The other night I was I've been feeling great and staying up late and doing a lot of art and I was excited to do some art that night too and I started feeling pain and I took some aspirin. I went to bed and I'd wake up every couple hours and I had a lot of pain there. But this is the idea of what you would call sense memory or cellular memory due to what you sensed was the imminent interaction about to occur and associating it to that area that has in such past interactions experienced the idea of physical pain. That's another thing I wanted to know if I'm having the pain before after. So you're saying I'm getting this before as a residual memory. You are getting the pain before the interaction but as a residual memory after the fact of an interaction that caused the pain. Do you follow? Okay. And now that area being sensitive as you would say flares up when you sense the energy of an interaction approaching though it is in essence the after effect of certain interactions that have already occurred. Okay. Okay. In this particular interaction, what I'm curious about how sometimes they actually take us physically and sometimes they're only taking us astrally. Yes. Can't they whenever they do something to us in our astral body, does it affect our physical body? Yes, it can. It depends on what is done. Some things will not work as strongly that way and so the physical presence may be required for the adjustment. Other things are more prone depending upon your makeup, your matrix, your consciousness, your belief systems and other factors be more effective by simply making an adjustment in the astral or etheric energy level and the body will simply take its cue from that change and make the adjustment accordingly. So they don't even for most things they don't need our physical body. They could just not any longer. Not now that certain adjustments have been made. Now many of you are more responsive on the astral level. Okay, that's very interesting. Well, I thank you. I'm always asking you about bruises and this and that. I had a pretty interesting one when I was in Hawaii which made a triangle on the inside of my arm and like in the morning there was one circle and then in the afternoon there was two and by the evening there was the third one and it made a triangle. Can you tell me anything about what that kind of interaction was? That one again the idea of adjustment on cellular level that will perhaps be an adjustment now in energy but which your body may respond to by the creation of a mark after the fact and they could like micro adjustments in cellular vibrational rate. They could like an adjustment in what you would call the lymphatic system of the body. Oh okay. They could like take me do I have to be asleep because I know that you don't have to be but again in the state that most of you call sleep you are more shall we say susceptible to interdimensional shifting because you are willing to let go of your daily personification matrix or mask. Okay, one last thing. Oh, all right. My dog Luna, guys, she's experiencing skin things and I know it's summer and everybody's, you know, their dogs have trouble. Oh, all right. But I don't believe I really I don't believe that, you know, it could just be because it's summer and that. I was wondering if she's taking on anything for me or is about 60 to 70% of it is that yes, the rest of it is other variables that have to do with her environment. Is there something you could share with me that I could do to help alleviate what she's taking on for me? Corn starch can be of some benefit when applied to the skin and helping alleviate some of this and then also energetically helping to balance out some of the energy of the being. So there doesn't have to necessarily be so much mirroring. And for you, sometimes the idea also of the application of a little bit of cornstarch powder to your own skin may also help alleviate and balance some of the chemical properties that may be thrown out of balance by some of these interactions. So, it's not something I could do like to put on her, but something I could change in my life that so she's that's kind of just like part of the interaction thing. She's more assimilation, more integration in that sense. Becoming more of yourself will always be the fundamental thing to do that will then allow others to not necessarily have to reflect to you those things so that you are then forced to see them in the mirrors around you in life. But the idea for now of the cornstarch powder will also help you in this endeavor. Okay. We do not in many cases suggest such things lightly. They have many different levels to them. And you may find that as you explore the idea of the utilization of the cornstarch powder. It will not simply be for the purpose of topical application only. But there may be what you would call some ritualistic and/or sacred properties to the energy of that substance that may actually put you in touch with other things you need to be put in touch with that will help balance you on other levels as well. When we recommend such things or suggest such things, it is not usually only on one level that we do. So yeah, I've been exploring the mint and really having a fun time with it. All right. And the soaking in the tub. If anybody hasn't tried it, put some fresh mint and rub it in the tub. It's a Yes. Is it assisting you in helping yourself bring yourself back to mint condition? It clears my head and I'm reading all my inspirational magazines and I feel like I'm taking myself to I've been playing at I'm an artist and I've been playing and I've been playing a long time but I feel like now I'm moving into the next stage of doing you know and I have been doing but I'm going to really focus. All right. Simply remember that to be inspired means to breathe in, to take it in and make it your own. All right. I love you. Our love to you as well. Thank you. You and then you. Number two, do you know who you are? All right. Number one, good day.

Good day. Not quite sure how to start. Oh, right. I think I'll just start first by thanking you. All right. You are for I'm not quite sure how much of this I've imagined, but I actually think you've been helping me a lot the last two months. All right. With my mom. Yes. From time to time. Okay. And I want to also thank you for something you had said in one of the sessions a few months ago where you said and then face what comes, something like and face what comes head on totally focused because that's what made me get through the weeks in the hospital with her. All right. Thank you for absorbing that energy and information. Just so everybody else knows my mom passed in the hospital but within the tragedy of that there were lots of miracles. Yes, of course. So, the paradox of all of that is probably something I'll be discussing a lot the next few weeks by all means. Okay. The night I think it was the night after her bypass collapse. Yes. And I think it was the night before she passed, beings that all I can say is that they appear to be giant praying mantises. Yes. Were helping me. Yes. Can you tell me about them? Again, this is what many individuals refer to in certain encounters and thus bespeak the appearance or report the appearance of those beings that to them appear in what you would call the form of your praying mantis only larger. These are what we refer to very often as the founders. Do you understand? The founders in that sense are those that have set up the templates of certain realities and thus are involved in a sense in overseeing and organizing and being at the head of many of the agendas that are now going on in many of the template realities that they have set up that many beings and civilizations chose to particularly involve in any event that involves the transition from one state to another. Okay. Thus then profoundly they would be involved and visible though not all of you always sense them at the kind of transition that you experienced with your mother. Okay. And I they seem to be sitting behind control panels in a sense. Sometimes that is literal and sometimes that is simply your symbolic interpretation of the fact that they are the watchers at the door and to some degree regulate and or oversee the energy of such doorways as they open and close. They can be perceived as being in control of that particular event but only in the sense that they are watching, regulating, organizing and assisting in the procedure so that it remains in a particular state. Not controlling in the sense of making it happen, but controlling in the sense of allowing there to be the equalization of energies for the optimum or maximized experience. Yeah, that's what I felt. I didn't when I said control panels, I didn't mean that they were actually doing I actually felt like they were assisting at such high levels. It was blowing my heart wide open more and more. Yes, there were so many beings that were helping. There always are at such times. There was one day that I mean I'm very sensitive to spirit. Yes. But I actually thought people were in the room. I would I was praying over my mom and I had to look up a few times. Well, in some senses there were as they merged their frequencies more into the dimensional domain that you are used to then in that sense they can from time to time allow you to perceive that they are coming vibrationally closer to physically being in the room with you. Right. But these beings I didn't recognize. I mean I didn't care at the time. I was wondering though if you could I mean they weren't what I would normally sense as the angelic or the ascended masters or who my guides were but they were these very big kind of humanoid yes beings that were in a sense walking around the bed. Yes. These are again more like the idea of guides. They were guides of mine or my mom's both. Okay. My twin was very close with my mom, guys, and she wasn't able to talk to her for like 23 days. All right. While she was in critical care. Yes. Sorry. You don't have anything to apologize for. So, I was wondering if there was some kind of message my mom would like to give to my sister at this time. Yeah. One moment. We may need to, as you would say in temporal terms, leap ahead in time to a point where in the spirit organization or indoctrination or education of that being you know as your mother has oriented toward the concept of delivering such messages. One moment. One moment. One moment. Is there at this time concern on the part of your twin of something having to do with the idea of children that you know of? That I know of is she's I don't know what the word is. She's sad I guess is the only way that her children won't have their grandma. I mean is that make sense? Yes. One moment. One moment. Ages of those children approximately in human terms. There'll be two and four at the end of this month. Two and four. And names. Nina Gabriella Stevens is the four-year-old and Nathan Giovani Stevens is the two-year-old. Message is as follows. Children of that age will more likely know they have a grandmother than the mother will. Mhm. Do you follow this? Oh, yeah. That is the message. For me personally, the real good that came out of my sister not being able to talk to my mom and not running back when the bypass collapsed was I mean even though she's my twin, she's kind of thought I was and she's a clinical psychologist but we were very different and her soul really had a stretch and she did connect with my mom. So I think her spirit really expanded and she also saw who her children are because her children are very evolved. All right. And now more than ever through the children will she understand how to have stronger access to communication with the mother. Okay. Is that what my mother's saying? Yes. Okay. Great. That the children will know more strongly than she knows that they still have a grandmother, though she may not be physical. And in what you call about 3 months time to 9 months time, there will be stronger indicators of communication with the grandmother on the part of the children that may then if your twin is paying attention, she may then understand and witness that her children are in fact in communication with the mother. And this can help strengthen the understanding for her that the consciousness still exists and can be communicated with, but perhaps in a way that is a little bit less structured than what your twin might now believe to follow. Oh, totally. I mean, I told the four-year-old that grandma will still be talking to her. The four-year-old is so brilliant that she just said, "Well, how does that work?" I mean, and I couldn't explain to her. I just told her that it worked. Yes. So, I know that they're still communicating. Yes. And they especially Nathan helped a lot in the healing in the weeks with my mom. This little dinosaur was incredible. Yes. Pay attention to the toys the children use. For many times, the toys that children use are intermediary mediums for communication with other beings in other dimensional realms. Okie do. Then I wanted to ask about my brother. Yes. He left my mom that night and that night my mom, this being is about to go on what you classically call a long journey. My brother, yes. Physical age. 40. Physical name Larry Mancini. Approximate physical location on your planet at this time about 20 or 30 miles outside of Boston. This being may be about to encounter an opportunity that will open up for physical travel and relocation and the beginning of an unexpected physical movement adventure music career. That's what I'm hoping for him. It can in some senses involve the idea of that which is creative art but may at first not necessarily appear to be the adventure it will turn out to be. It is the physical relocation that in some senses is almost more important than anything that may be caused or used to lure him into this actual physical movement. Well, he just bought a house. I mean, he just moved into a house a few weeks ago into this nothing to us. Okay. So, that's not the movement you're talking about. No. Okay. I did. We have said this is unexpected and will be by surprise. Okay. I wanted travel. Okay. Distance travel whether from the house as a base of operations or not. Distance travel is involved and coming up soon. Okay. This will be part of the process needed to allow this being to learn to be in touch with again different forms of communication more strongly and to learn to express them and feel them and know they are real more strongly and to not be afraid of expressing the self more strongly. You follow? Yeah, it's exciting for me. All right. He's I've probably spent about 5 hours talking with him. He's feeling somewhat responsible for putting stress on my mom because he had been talking to her about I actually think the hospital was rushing her out too fast and he was leaving that afternoon had discussed some finances with her. And then that evening her bypass collapsed. Yes. So he keeps thinking that if he wouldn't have talked about money that maybe the bypass wouldn't collapse. This is one of the reasons why he needs to move and have movement in his life, physical movement, so that he will be brought to the understanding that he had nothing to do with that. Yeah. Good. As he moves, he will learn to breathe differently. And it will allow him to remove guilt from his system. You follow. Yes. Then I had a question about what I did. When she coded the second time and I came in the room, they were kind of they were waiting for me. Can you see that picture? Yes. Okay. What did I do? Cuz all I know is I put my hands on her. I told the nurse that he didn't have to keep doing the manual. You told her it was all right to go. Well, she was gone. I think you told her it was all right to go. I told her. Yes. Well, she and you told yourself. Oh, yeah. Well, I had been outside right before this happened and I asked her what she wanted to do and she said she thinks she needed to go now. She didn't think she could recover enough to live a happy life. And that was fine with me. I didn't know she'd be coding though while she was telling me that. But I had told the nurse that he didn't have to keep doing the CPR cuz to me it looked like her soul had already I see this is what I for the most part but complete detachment had not occurred and she was in your vernacular hovering. Yes. And you told her it was all right to just go. Well, I jumped cuz I've been doing that quite a bit and since you've talked about jumping into the infinite I did jump. I mean the whole room was still everybody didn't move. I don't know how long I stood there for. I did eternity catch the tail end of her light. I mean, I've been with souls crossing. She didn't seem like she needed much of my help at all. No, but it was significant and important that she receive what you gave to let her know she had the last vestige of your permission. It was significant and important. Mhm. Why I'm really bringing this up is because the surgeon was outside the room and for about two hours after my mom passed, I felt him replaying that over what he had seen me do. Yes. Over and over in his head. Nice. And I wanted to kind of know what did he see? No comment at this time on that individual's process. Now, did I help activate him to his power? That's what I You are a part of that process. No further comment is allowed at this time. Okay. Does that help you? Yes. Can I ask one more thing? I don't know. Can you? The day my mom passed. Yes. The neurologist, she had had a stroke a few days before and she was in a coma. Yes. So, the neurologist that was called in stood over her bed talking to me and said, "Your mother's dying. Your mother's dead." And I just immediately felt her click. Now, normally I would have just ushered this guy out of the room because I was really on for those weeks, but my aunt was there and it had gotten a little crazy. And guys, more and more individuals on your planet are beginning to understand that these individuals, even in what you would call states, do receive and perceive those communications and sometimes do take that language to heart. However, in this particular instance, it wouldn't have mattered. She had already made up her mind that she was in fact leaving. But she didn't. I don't know if she was making up. Actually, when I walked up that morning and I saw the nurse, it was a nurse we hadn't had, but I heard, "Oh, today we have the angel of death." And I was very happy that we had that nurse because I think he prepared her very properly and sacredly. But I was wondering how much I feel a responsibility to write the hospital since it is a spiritually based hospital. You wish to communicate to them the idea of having more awareness of the fact that individuals will pick up on and perceive the energy of such conversations. By all means, you are entitled to do so. We are simply letting you know that at that particular moment and in that particular case, it really made not much difference since she had already decided to go. But she didn't decide to go like then within a few hours. I mean, I think already decided to go. I understand. Yes, he helped speed up when that was though, didn't he? Who was part of the timing of the process though again it doesn't necessarily excuse the idea of what you may call the irreverence or disrespect right I mean I'm not blaming him I know he was part of it I understand that and I am not suggesting that you are okay we are simply attempting to explain to you the energetic parameters in this case it is more the trigger for you to communicate something to them that they perhaps do in fact as an organization want to know yes about the members of their organization but it really had nothing at all to do with changing the timing for your mother that was already underway. It was simply synchronistic more for you to take advantage of even more so than for her. You follow? Yeah. I guess it was just that I felt her click so hard. I understand that. But in fact what you felt was your click, not hers, yours. At that time, you recognize that everything fell into the slot for you at that moment. At that moment, you had complete and utter recognition of her absolute conviction of decision. The click was actually yours. You simply clicked with her in her timing at that moment. And that individual acted as a catalyst and a trigger to help click you together into her timing. We follow. Yeah. I mean I don't want to there will be other questions I have because All right. But we'll discuss this at another time. Yeah. Because there were a lot of other things that happened during that day which and we will discuss this at another time. Okay. Number two. Thank you. Thank you.

Hi Bashar and you good day. I was interested in speak up and be bold so that all may hear what you have to share. Okay. I am interested in knowing what my spiritual ancestry is. Spiritual ancestry. Yes. You are connected to everyone and everything. Everywhere and every when. There you have it. Okay. Then I mean my deepest connections. You are connected to everyone and everything. Everywhere and every when. There you have it. Oh. Now, okay. What you from the perspective of this life have chosen to make deeper connections to reflect and represent vibrationally to you what it is you have chosen to be in this life. That's a different story. But it's not that they are actually truly more profoundly deep. It's that you are calling things out that are more representative and reflective of how you have established your frequency in this life. And so you are more keenly aware in this life of certain portions of the infinite that you are connected to because they are more reflectively representative or symbolic of what you have created yourself to be in this life. Does that make more precise sense to you? Yes. Yes, it does. So in that context then the idea is you are most deeply and profoundly connected to those things that you find yourself most deeply and profoundly drawn to with your imagination, your curiosity, your creativity and your excitement. Okay. Wherever it is that your attention is most strongly drawn in any avenue of spirituality and that which can be most strongly expressed as taking action on the things that excite you the most. Those are reflective and representative of the connections you have made from the vantage point of this life to everything else that you are connected to which is everything, everyone, everywhere, every when. So I'm creating that deepest connection now from here. Yes. Okay. Making it appear in linear time frame terminology as if it is in a sense a connection from other places and other times. But in fact the connection is coming from here and choosing the idea of other vibrational domains, other parallel realities, other dimensions, other times, choosing to make those connections so that they are simply reflective of what you have chosen to be here and thus help remind you of what you have chosen to be here. But those connections are coming from here, not from there. Okay? Make sense? Yes. Keep everything here and now because that's actually the only place in time there is. Okay? Here and now. All right. Every different moment is the same moment from a different point of view. Make sense? Every different moment is the same. What you perceive in linear space-time three-dimensional reality as a series of different moments. Past, future. Yes, these are actually all the same one single moment but from a different point of view because there is only one moment and that is now. Every moment you've ever experienced and every moment you will ever experience in physical reality will actually be the same moment but you will experience that moment from a different perspective so that you will see another way in which that same moment can be experienced. It's all the same moment but in linear space-time you make it appear in the illusion of linear moments one after another. They're not really one after another. They're all here and now, but they're just different angles of the same creation, the same one moment, the same experience of you. You are having the experience of yourself. And it is simply being experienced in this modality by these perspectives of the same moment that you exist in forever. Because there is only one moment to exist in. And that's why it's eternal and infinite because it's always here and now. Okay, make sense? Is this any of it making sense to you? Yes. All right. And so where does this lead us in this communication? Okay. Well, I'm interested in knowing a Lemurian lifetime. Why? Why are you interested in knowing a Lemurian lifetime or an Atlantean lifetime? Atlantean. Yes. Why is this of interest to you? Because I've done a couple workshops. Yes. So because you have done workshops, that's why this is interesting to you. Is there not a deeper reason why this feels interesting? Why this tugs at your curiosity? Well, it feels right for me. Feels right for you. What it is that feels right for you. Would you kindly explain? Well, like the energy of Lemuria. Yes. And so, what are you saying when you say that you are connecting to the energy of Lemuria and the energy of Atlantis? What is it that you are recognizing in these connections, aspects of myself? Yes. But different than that, what you are recognizing is that what those life experiences represent, as we have already explained, is what you are patterning your life into. Now, okay, you follow the reason you're curious about what those lives are all about is because those lives are similar in energy structure and in idea construct to what it is you are patterning your life to be now in this transitional end of the cycle day and age on your planet. You're taking what you learned, so to speak, yes, from those experiences and you are applying them to the experience you are having in this now moment so that you can gain a reflectivity of what it is you are creating this now moment to be. Those moments relate to the moment you are creating here and now. But you can also work this in reverse. You can work it any way you want really. But the idea really is that if you simply give yourself the opportunity to know what it is you want to do here and now, what it is you are most excited to create in this life, that will also put you in touch with the vibrations of the things that you were most excited to create. Perhaps not in the same way, but on the same level of energy in the Atlantean and Lemurian lives. I see. You follow? And again, paradoxically, by allowing yourself to act more fundamentally, more concretely on the things that excite you in this life, you will put yourself in the appropriate state that will actually make it easier if necessary to tap into what those things were in those lives because you'll be in the same resonance, frequency, bandwidth. Yes. So you can work it in the way it is actually constructed from here to there rather than from there to here. Okay? Does this make sense to you? Yes. In other words, if you be here now, what you imagine being a Lemurian or being an Atlantean is like, yes, then you will be on the same wavelength to understand what being a Lemurian or being an Atlantean was like. And I will even though you may not have expressed it exactly in the same terms, right? And I'll be here now. You are here now. Exactly. Okay. And you will know that you are. And that's what you mean by I will be here now. Right. You will know that you are here now. That's all it means when your people say I will learn to be here now. Doesn't mean you're actually learning to be here now. It means you are remembering that you are here now. And so you'll begin experiencing yourself because you are here now in that way. Yes. Make sense? Yes. Is this helping opening up the doorways for you? Yes, it is. Thank you. Does this help you sufficiently at this time? Yes. Or is there something else you wanted to discuss? Well, I'm just learning what excites me. Oh, no. Oh, no. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. We won't let you get away with that one. Oh, no. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No, no, no. Every single one of you without reservation, every single one of you without exception knows exactly precisely at every single moment what it is that excites you the most. Whether you're willing to admit that or not is based on a number of different ideas that you have been spoonfed since birth. But every single one of you absolutely knows at any given moment what it is at that moment that would be the most exciting thing you can imagine doing at that moment because that's all that is meant by doing what excites you the most. Do what excites you the most at that moment. That's all it means. Doesn't have to mean some lifespanning career or some time-consuming project. All it means is do what you are capable of taking action on that excites you the most at any given moment out of all the things available for you to take action on at that moment. So every single one of you can know what that is if you are willing to allow yourself to simply look what it is at this moment that excites you the most and take action in that direction regardless of whether you think it's supposed to be connected to this that or the other thing. Are you following the drift of this? Yes. And by doing that, that will lead me to the destiny that I want to create. And why will that be so? Because it will be in my highest excitement. Because anything that you would really need to create in this life that is representative of your true self would automatically by definition be contained in the path of highest excitement that you would follow. It may not get you there how you think you need to be there. It may not even come to fruition in the way in which you think it needs to come to fruition. But I guarantee whatever it is that is representative of your highest joy, whatever it is that is representative of your true absolute highest creative self will be expressed through you in this life in some way, shape or form. If you simply choose to remain on the bandwidth of your highest joy and drop all your expectations for how you think it's supposed to manifest, you can use certain visualizations of things that excite you as guidelines. Yes, but use them only as general guidelines. Even when you come up with the idea of a project, a specific project, use the specific project only as a guideline for the way in which the thing that really excites you the most, the fundamental reason why you want to do that project. Let that fundamental reason attract to you whatever the true modality is that would actually allow that fundamental reason to be expressed in the most beneficial way for all concerned along the path of least resistance rather than insisting that that fundamental creative expression you desire to express must manifest in just this way and just that way or you won't believe that it will manifest. Make sense? Yes. This opens you up to an infinite field of possibility and opens you up to the experience of your true self which is far more grand, far more expanded and far more multi-dimensional than any of you have allowed yourselves to believe possible. Is this making some sense to you? Yes. And remember, please please please please you don't have to but please remember I am not simply talking philosophy. I am talking physics. Right? Do you understand that? Yes. Resonance. Yes. Does this help you? Yes. Thank you very much. Bashar. What? You and then you. Number two. Do you know who you are? All right. Number one. Good day. Hi Bashar. Lo the shark. No. You. Oh. Hello. Hello. I am. Hi. You are Hello. Okay. I've been I went out and got the book 2001. Understood. Cuz I've been looking into the monolith. Understood. See, I thought the 1, four, and the nine meant it was 1x4 by 9. It is, but it also means many other things. Okay. Then well, it is 1x4 by 9 in ratio. Yes, the book set. And now, not that this was a I don't know that this was a very true statement here, but it said it was 11 feet. Their book, their monolith anyway, was 11 feet high by 1 and a quarter by 5 in cross-section. And it said when its dimensions were checked with great care, they were found to be in the exact ratio 1:4 to 9, the squares of the first three integers. Integers. Integers. That's one, two, and three. And then I don't understand that is What do you mean you don't understand? 1 times 1 is 1. 2 times 2 is 4. 3 times 3 is 9. The squares of the first three numbers. Oh, okay. Well, I was just trying to put that together and it didn't go together for me. No offense, but this is basic math. Well, okay. Now, do you understand? Yes. Oh, why? All right. All right. Well, that's good. All right. Yes, that's good. All right. Shall we now move on to algebra? No. I have forgotten algebra. Oh. All right. Well, how about geometry then? Nope. Never did get into that. Oh, geometry. That's a lie. Sacred geometry. Yes. Yes. Yes. I'm thinking of regular math geometry in school. Oh, regular math geometry. What do you think it's all? All right. The other Sue enjoy playing with you. Oh, I know. I know. But I like to play with you, too. Why, thank you. I had yes. What did you have today? Trisha came over and she did an energy healing that was just absolutely fantastic. Oh, all right. And when she said go into a space and everything, your favorite space, and I was by the lake. Yes. Home by the lake. Yes. And I felt well the home energy of course we've discussed. Yes. But really really strongly about being home and how I'm a wanderer and really really strong. Really squared. Yes. Really times really. Yes. Yes. All right. And I tapped into and had a conversation with a Chumash Indian. All right. That I understand have been on the property around in the mountains there by the lake. Aha. Okay. And White Eagle was his name. And we were talking about my life. He was my father and I was little bear. All right. And Kashaskka and that means little bear. No, no, no. Gales Kashka. What's that? White eagle. Oh, white eagle. And how is little bear? Find out. Oh, okay. Anyway, then I was a shaman in that lifetime, so to speak. So to speak. Yes. You must understand that what you call your terminology in your culture of shaman is not exactly as it actually translates in what you would call your indigenous Indian populations concepts. Okay. But we understand what you mean. Just understand that there is a vast difference between the way that those two concepts are interpreted. Okay. It'd be just a healer. Not just anything. It is a complete understanding of what is termed the medicine wheel. And medicine wheel is also not clearly understood by your culture. Yeah. Then I got the information to tell Trisha that my left leg since auto accident 30 years ago has been about a half inch shorter than the other one. And I was told for her to stretch that leg. All right. And that it would be possible to even it out. Yes, it is. And I feel very balanced. All right. From that and it does feel even when I stand now. All right. Thank you. So that was a fabulous experience. All right. Yes. And I thank Trisha. The other thing was in my dream from June 19th, my waking dream. Yes. There was the part that said some name was you know people were there and they were channeling and it said some name was given for the one I would channel and meet face to face. Can you comment on that one? Nope. You won't comment on that? Nope. Not at this time. Okay. So in mid-process not allowed door is shut. Not our job. Well, I was doing some automatic writing. Nice. And so I had picked up some Can you comment on that? The automatic writing that I did on it and the contact. What aspects would you like us to comment on? The energy of who it was? Is that a question? Yeah. No comment is forthcoming. Okay, then I will rephrase it. Thank you. The energy that was writing that said it would be face to face channeling with him. Is that question? No, no, no. Okay. An aspect or a connection not as Bashar but as a connection that we have because I've never explored our connections. Your energy is still asking this in the form of a question. Then I will make a statement that it's an aspect and our connection. An aspect of what? An aspect of you. Me in what way? You not as the Bashar name that I know you but as I feel Lee Bailey. No, not Lee Bailey. No, Zeon. Not exactly. But you're getting warmer. Not O. No, not O. It's one that I don't know yet. It's one that I wrote with. And it is one you know but don't know. You know in this way you don't recognize what you know. Yeah, you're right about that. I did some writing just a few brief sentences about and they were what he just said something about for the master that you are you still have a fear of who I am. Yes. And another way of saying what we just said. You don't recognize what you know. Okay? You choose not to recognize what you know. And so that phrase is exactly the same idea. In other words, okay. So in this context, do you find then that this means that your automatic writing may be being of assistance to you in bringing you closer to the understanding of how to allow yourself to recognize what you know? Oh, yeah. It's always cuz I got that it was you not me literally. Yes, that's what I'm saying. It's what I symbolize for you in context to what it is you are interacting with that is not exactly not precisely but closely represented by the idea that you call Zeon. And you said that was another aspect of myself. More often than not, when individuals on your planet are beginning to deal with the idea of certain aspects of their own future selves, you will, for a variety of reasons, assign a name to it that begins with an X or a Z. Yeah, it's integration, isn't it? The Z's like Zach that was with me for many years. I feel that it's my future and I was a hybrid self in some senses. Yes. But not exactly in the way that you understand the hybrid children. It is a different kind of hybrid self. Okay. This conversation has but a few moments remaining on the clock. I will what clock I will not tell you. All right. I will explore that more. All right. Thank you so very much. And number two, good day. And to you, good day.

Elvis died 20 years ago today. And I would like to explore whether there is an energy that is still affecting people on a spiritual level much as in the way that John Lennon's music is supposedly doing. All right. Well, obviously you know this is so so continue. Well, is that the reason that he has such a profound effect still? Or I thought, well, maybe it's just a giant marketing effect, but I know that a giant marketing effect. Ah, yes. The GME, the gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme, giant marketing effect. Gimme gimme gimme gimme gimme. It is that the giant marketing effect exists because the individual knew how to hit the right chord. Do you understand? Yes. Because I know that there are certain chords in different music that really resonate with me and bring out and also there are chords in society that are ripe for the plucking and in that sense thus individuals who are representative of the collective society's readiness to experience being plucked to a different resonance level will then allow an individual or more than one individuals to be chosen or to choose themselves to represent symbolically the collective society's readiness to go to a different level or to see things in a different way and thus that cord will be plucked and it will create a reverberation throughout the society that will be ongoing and will forever be a part of the collective harmonics of the society from that point forward. So yes, of course, there are still residual resonances from the plucking of any such strong cord that awakens certain elements in the entire society and is the product of the collective consciousness saying we are ready to be plucked. We don't seem to have anybody currently in the music field doing that at this time that I'm aware of. It will be different for different aspects and segments of your collective society. You always have someone on some level in some capacity at various points doing these things. But from time to time there will be a collective cycle where it would seem that one or very few individuals will resonate to the entire collective but this is still going on. You may just not be completely aware of it yet. Okay. Some children questions. Some children questions. Do you mean questions from children or about them? About children. Oh, all right. They're saying now that about they who they people who do studies. All right. They are saying that about 20% of children nowadays have what is called learning disabilities which makes it extremely hard for them to learn to read and so on. May I let you know that there are about 227 million individuals now on my planet having telepathically heard that question who are now laughing hysterically. Why are they laughing hysterically? Because it isn't really a learning disability. It is a teaching disability. All right. It is not really attention deficit disorder. It is information deficit disorder. Well, learning disabilities is defined in my understanding as the processing of the brain being in most cases. This is not the case. All right? In most cases, what you're simply seeing is that information processing is now occurring in a very different format within many of the children being born on your planet now. And in fact, it's actually higher than that. It's about 30%. The idea is that these children are not just a different generation, they are a different species and need to absorb information in a different way that your culture has not yet caught up to. When your culture begins to understand that it needs to disseminate information in more highly interactive, as it is beginning to understand, more personally involving and engaging and creative methodologies, you will find that much, aside from those few cases that are truly physiochemically imbalanced, much of the so-called learning deficits in your planet will disappear. This is a challenge given from the children to your society not to diagnose and dissect them in that way but to diagnose and dissect the idea of the methodologies by which you teach information. Does this correlate to the fact that there seems to be an inability on the part of many children to focus for very long periods of time? Now also yes because you will find that the more you truly understand how to disseminate information and the more experiential the dissemination of such information becomes, the less rote and the less amount of time will be factors in the idea of the education process. Individuals will learn by doing not simply by being lectured at. Could you give some examples of that as to how it might apply to learning to read? The idea is that concepts will be discussed, stories will be lived, acted out and in the acting out then concurrently the words and the dialogue will be learned. The alphabets will be learned but through the acting out, through the becoming of. Do you follow? Yes. In the becoming of will be innate understanding of how to read and learn the alphabetized formats. Would this be instead of or in addition to phonic drill and the usual kind of at first? Perhaps in addition to later on instead of when individuals truly are taught to become what it is they are learning, they will understand what they need to understand. In the same way that many of you recognize that so-called prodigies at a young age can simply sit down at a piano and instantly play and read music without ever having had a lesson, but they will know how to do that. It's the same idea. An individual can instantly understand how to read by becoming the story itself, by becoming even the words, the concept, the vibration itself. And when your people learn how to teach it this way, the automatic understanding of the alphabet that goes along with being the concept will be innately and immediately absorbed and understood. Okay, we call that intuitive learning. No. All right, call it what you wish. It is actually far more than that. It is a dynamic, interactive, creative, empathic, intuitive learning, teaching process. Yes. All right. Could you give me some more specific examples for dealing with the six-year-olds that I'll be working with this year in ways to invite, entice, and excite them? Where's your own imagination? Well, I've been working on it, but I working on it. Oh, all right. What tools are you using to work on your imagination? I just gave a workshop for teachers and in doing that I pulled together some new ideas for myself. Yes. Such as for example i.e. Well, I've always done a lot of art and a lot of creative kinds of things with any one thing in trying to get a more holistic kind of All right. Can you imagine taking a piece of your artwork, say something that you have done on what you would call a piece of paper and or canvas or some such medium? Yes. Yes. Can you give us an example of a piece of your art first of all before we continue? Well, one of the ones that we did at the workshop was butterflies where they used torn paper and of course it was a symmetrical design and it was layered. And they were layered in what way? In different color and shapes. All right. The approximate size of this piece. Let's see. The paper is 18 by 12. So, they were approximately that size. I see. Well, here's a suggestion. And this is all we're going to give you at this time for the next step that is more in line with what we are talking about. All right. All right. It's not the end all be all. It's not the only aspect of what we're talking about, but it's more in the direction of what we are talking about. Take that picture, blow it up really big, big enough so that people can actually get inside of it. Actually recreate it three-dimensionally as if it were a place. Let people be in the picture. Do you understand? Give dimension to it. Create the butterflies big and make the painting, make the picture actually into a three-dimensional sculptural space. And as you blow it up, investigate what might be between the objects that are in the picture, what might be behind the objects that are in the picture, other things that may not be revealed in the two-dimensional rendering that your imagination can put into the three-dimensional rendering that is big enough for them to actually step into. Enter, walk around in. Look back from the different directions, in, in, and out. Move like a doorway. Make it an environment, a living environment. But always retain the two-dimensional symbology. So there will be a relationship symbolically that they can take advantage of. So they can relate the three-dimensional environment to the two-dimensional symbology, which would be analogous to creating the idea of an environment that children can then relate to the two-dimensional symbology of the words. In other words, when you have a word such as butterfly, blow it up, play with it, play with the letters, make a butterfly out of the letters, butterfly, play with them, do all sorts of different dimensional things with them. Do not be limited linearly. Play with it. Use your imagination. Break it up. Put it back together. Put it back together in different ways. See what they can discover about it. Make other words out of butterfly until they know everything there is to know about butterfly. Then believe me, they will never forget the word nor how to spell it. You follow? I think so. I think so. All right. Well, we'll see. Your key is play with it. Play play. In other words, become a six-year-old and you will know what to do. All right. If you get stuck, ask your six-year-olds. Okay. All right. Now, will the hybrid children be similar in their learning process? Oh, no. This way. Later on, perhaps later on the children of your world and the hybrid children will in a sense be synchronized in their learning process. But for now, because of what they are, the hybrid children in that sense are already far beyond because they're already automatically empathic and telepathic. Do you understand? Everyone is. But because your society doesn't yet allow them to fully be, then it'll take a little time for your children to exhibit the same capacities to the same degree only because of the information deficit disorder that exists in the teaching system on your planet. Not because of the children's deficiencies. You follow? Yes. Yes. Does that help you? Yes, it does. Thank you very much. Happy learning. Thank you. You good day. And then you number two. Do you know who you are? All right. Number one, good day. Good day.

Greetings. I just came back from a couple weeks of vacation where I spent a lot of time in nature. Oh, all right. Congratulations. Thank you. And although it was all beautiful, there was one or two things that had sort of a special effect or a special effect. Oh, all right. Stood out, so to speak. Excuse me. Stood out. Yes. All right. One of these was the giant redwood trees. Giant redwood trees. Yes, the ambassadors between the plant kingdom and the humans. Okay. Well, I was going to give you my impressions on this, but that sounds by all means don't hesitate to do so. When I first looked into these woods, I got this impression that this is like a mystical enchanted forest. It is. And then my next thought was, I feel like I'm walking in God's private forest in a sense. And then my next thought later on was you have spoken of the human ancient ones. Yes. On this earth and what they're doing. And I thought this must be the plant version of that. Exactly. So I got this impression of what I would just call majestic peace. Yes. Ancient majestic peace. Yes. Very very very very intuitive of you. Thank you. Thank you. I just got the impression that they were really doing something other than just being big trees. They are for us to look at. Yes, they are. Okay. They are radiating and resonating on many different frequencies and a very particular harmonic that puts you in touch with exactly what you got in touch with. Okay? You keyed right in to that frequency. Fell right into their mystical spell. Yes. Yes. Yeah. It was actually very good. You were in communion with them on their level, on their vibration, on their bandwidth. Yes. Very good. Great. Thanks. Well, I had nothing to do with it. Thank you. In the book, Conversations with God, all that is refers to itself as the observer. That's one of its aspects. Yes. Well, yes. And then several months ago, an entity that was called the observer came through the channel. Yes. Even though I wasn't here listening to the tape, I felt like we were communicating with something just very special. That's the best way I can put it. It exists on a profoundly expanded level. Yes. I guess I was just searching for a connection or a meaning or the coincidence between all that is referring to it to itself as the observer and that there is a connection. The synchronicity of it lets you know that you have access to it whenever you wish. Just also know that at the same time it is that which I'll just use this word demands of you that you be your greatest self in communing with it because that's what it is. Okay. Yes I guess that's all. Thank you so much for your journey. Thank you. Number two. Good evening Mich. Good day.

I am an energy healer and I get great joy and happiness practicing this. Oh, all right. And I know my accuracy is pretty high. I'm just wonder accuracy. My accuracy in my healings. Accuracy. Can you define what you mean by accuracy in healing? Do you mean to imply accuracy in the sense of getting the effect you want? Is that what you mean? Not getting the effect I want, getting the effect that person's supposed to be getting. Supposed to be getting. Not suppose, that's not the word I want either. Do you mean that you are willing to trust that what is going on is what needs to be going on? Bingo.

Then in that sense, is your accuracy not 100%. My accuracy is 100%. Thank you. In that context, isn't it? Yes. Yes. And so, I'm curious to know what my frequency level is when this is going on. Well, it fluctuates depending upon the interaction. Sometimes it's around 144,000 cycles per second. Sometimes, as we scan you, it's been as high as 193,000 cycles per second. Now, and then you have spiked into 215. Is that I don't know anything about the frequencies. Is that good? All right. The idea of 144,000 cycles per second is the bridge between what you would call lower third density reality and higher fourth density physical reality. Let me just put it to you this way. 333,000 cycles per second is the barrier, so to speak, or the threshold between physical and etheric reality. Many of what you call ascended masters generally operate somewhere above 200,000 cycles per second, generally somewhere around 225 to 250. You follow. Some higher. So does that give you now some clue? Yes. And when I was working on Ellie today, what was my frequency level at? At precisely what time? About 1:32 o'clock. When I was doing her especially her left leg. 176,555,000 cycles per second. Okay, thank you very much. Thank you. Now at this timing we will extend to you a notion. Each and every one of you, allow yourselves the opportunity. If you wish, make it a gift, a gift to yourself to grant yourself permission. And I suggest you actually do this by writing yourself a permission slip from your internal parents or whatever you deem your internal authority to be. I grant permission to myself or to him or to her. Permission to be, even for just a second, your full true natural self. Oh, scary. Give it your best shot. Play with that and see if you can successively grant yourself permission for longer and longer and longer periods of time to be your absolute fully realized, fully empowered self. Start small with a fraction of a second and build from there or start where you wish, but literally write out the permission slip. Look at it in light of what we talked about when we first opened this transmission in writing things out, looking at them. See it reflected back to you. Set aside that moment. Say, "All right, all right. Here it comes. Here it comes. Here it comes. I have permission. I have permission to be my full self now just for this moment for whatever this time period is. 

Then let it go. Just let go. Let go of everything. Just let go.

Don't worry, you'll snap back. 

But give yourself permission to begin to experience it for at least some period of time and write the permission slip out. Don't just exercise this in your imagination. Write it out. Do it. Because when you do that, it's a contract. 

It's a commitment. Sign it. You are then convicted to serve a life sentence. So we thank you. Our unconditional love to each and every one of you. A fond, exciting, creative, imaginative, and enlightening.

