---
heading: Part 2 of Tesseract Workshop
title: "Frequency Matching"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1997-07-11
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 161
tags: ['']
---



## Frequency Matching

**Asker:** Who has how do we obtain a frequency match and know we are there?

**Bashar:** once you immerse yourself you start to see patterns that you specifically gravitate to. 

You will know that those are aligned with you at this particular moment for a reason because they are most representative of your frequency at that point.

Once you allow yourself to harmonize with those frequencies you first find yourself gravitating to, you'll then be able to use the information that comes to you from that particular gravitational attraction to begin to become more specific about tuning your intention to other things.

But again, by definition, for the most part, the thing you are attracted to gravitate to first will be most representative of the strongest thing you need to be attracted to first. Don't insist on bringing one thing into manifestation when you're obviously attracted to a vibration that doesn't yet automatically contain that thing. But let yourself know that being attracted to that particular frequency first is the stepping stone on the path ultimately to whatever it is that really is germane for you to manifest in your reality and go with the flow. Walk through the doors. Follow the path of gravitational attraction.


**Asker:** How can we actually change your frequency.

You change your frequency with every thought. 

With every new perspective, your frequency is changed. This is why we are saying you can take your cue from the frequency you are attracted to to allow you to know that that's your frequency and when you get into it when you use it when it immerses itself within you when you're infused with it will automatically give you new insights that in and of themselves by definition are new frequency domains within it that you can then see again which ones you're attracted to.

That's how you change. In other words, you always aim for yourself. You always aim, to put it simply, for the thing that excites you the most. That will automatically contain all the frequency shifts that you will find also exciting to follow. You'll follow the most exciting one that it contains. And that one will contain another seed that you will find most exciting. And that one will contain another seed that you will find most exciting. And all you have to do is follow that excitement.

And you'll constantly be shifting your frequencies in the appropriate direction for who you are because your highest excitement is who you are. It's the vibration of who you are. That's how you change your frequency.

You see, you're making this determination as if you're supposed to change your frequency somehow in a way that is not in alignment with the vibrational frequency of your own natural true self. But the idea is that you don't have to do it that way. As you say in your language, that's putting the cart before the horse. Let the horse lead. Let your excitement lead you into how to automatically change your frequency.

Don't say, "How do I change my frequency to go toward my excitement?" Go toward your excitement and let it help you learn how to change your frequency. It's automatic. Then it's a flow. 

Then it's not a struggle. Then it's not a quandary. Then you can then move instead of standing there going, "How do I put my right foot out?" Just do it. Just walk and you will change as you walk.

**So we don't have to be so hided on what frequency.**

No no no no. Again look at your television analogy. Right. You know in a sense in a simplified form that you're excited about watching this program. All right. You know it's on channel 2. 

You know it's on channel 4. You know it's on channel 7. All right. But you don't really sit there and go, "Well, now exactly what frequency is that? If I don't figure out the exact frequency of the actual transmission and broadcast, I can't find it." Of course, you can. You have the intention. You know where it is in general. You go for it.


## Knowing Your Frequency

**Asker:** Explain how we can create knowing what our frequency is at any given moment, either intuitively or by using some kind of a device.

**You're asking for an actual reading of the frequency.**

**I think the idea is that a lot of times individuals would like to know what their frequency is, but at this point maybe they feel the only way they can know that is by asking you.**


you can always know by asking yourself. When you get to a point where you are extremely clear with yourself, you will know. But here in lies the paradox. When you get to a point of being extremely clear with yourself, you won't care. And so because you won't care, you won't know. It won't matter. And it won't matter. 

That's the paradox. Let's wipe out the self-measurement in that sense.

**Okay. Where am I? Am I at 124,000 cycles per second? Am I at 124 and a half thousand cycles per second? Oh no, today I'm at 123. I must be doing something wrong. You're going to spend too much time focusing on the idea of the numbers and not enough time focusing on the experience of being where you are.**

**Asker:** So, I guess there's no way, huh?

Yes, there is. Here it is. I'll give it to you this way. Understand has a choice. However, you can either be clear within yourself, follow your joy, not care what frequency you're at because you know it must be the right one because you're doing what excites you. Or you can say that what excites you is to simply know your frequency. Okay? But if that's what excites you, then that's it. That's that's it. Yes.**

In other words, look at this. If it is really the most exciting thing at this given moment for you to know your frequency of energy and then with clarity because this is representative of the most exciting thing that you want. You know it. Ah 156,000 cycles per second.

**All right. Well, now that you know it, now what do you want to do? Right. Well, and there's no point in doubting it because you I understand.**

But the point is, no, I agree. Yes, you can know it. However, in the very next instant when you become excited about doing something else, your frequency isn't 156,000 cycles per second anymore. It was only or down but it's only at that frequency when that is the result of that particular moment's excitement to know what the frequency is. In the very next moment, it's changed.

But to use it as BOF feed miner but you can't even always do that. Many of you don't even do that. I'll give you an example. Let's say you became very excited about knowing what your frequency was. And you go, "All right, I'm clear. That's it. That's my highest excitement. I want to know." Ah, bing. I have it. 156,000 cycles per second. Is that all? No. Then uh uh uh uh uh uh uh right. 

Pay attention: **Any measurement of comparison at all in a sense will contradict what it is you say you want.**

**If you use that vibration as a yardstick in any way, you are in some sense taking yourself out of the moment.**


**Bashar:** I'm not saying in the next moment you can't be a higher frequency. But the only way you're going to do that is to actually completely forget where you were a moment ago. 

So, it doesn't relate. It really doesn't relate because one moment is not really connected to the next until you make a connection.

So, even if you say, "Ah, I'm at 156,000 cycles per second. That is better than I was yesterday. I must be improving." 

You flatten the whole line right there because you're making a measurement, a comparative measurement that actually has absolutely no relevance to where you actually could be in the next moment depending on what excites you the most. It has really no relevance except for that moment. 

No relevance to any other moment whatsoever. So, you can't really use it in that sense as a measurement of improvement.


**Asker:** But why can't she use it as a measurement to achieve something in the same way that you use meditation waves like alpha and beta and theta that you can do but that has nothing to do with the idea of measuring an improvement. 


**Bashar:** It has to do only with the recognition that a certain frequency might be conducive to a certain state that you have experienced before and that if you simply recreate that frequency you might be capable of recreating other things in a similar fashion.

But again, it doesn't relate to any other moment except that one. But that also doesn't imply that you have to even really know what the frequency is per se. All you have to really do is in a sense recognize the state.


It doesn't necessarily have to be labeled with a particular number is all we are actually saying because the way the question was asked was in reference to knowing the particular frequency number.

**Yes. But if for instance there's a frequency in the rotation of the field. Forgive me for being ignorant as to what it was. That's all. Then that has a certain energy. So we're relating that number to that energy just in the same way that we're naming a state as theta that necessarily doesn't necessarily have a name. We're naming it as human beings.**


**Bashar:** You say that there is a corresponding numerical value for an energy state. 

But if you create with your excitement the knowledge that you are now vibrating at 156,000 cycles per second. Then you say, "All right, I've got to remember 156,000 cycles per second. 

But if you **FOCUS** on 156,000 cycles per second then you **LOSE** the original high vibration.

You gain the information as the vibrational frequency.

So there's nothing else you can do in that by remembering that number. All you can do is access that number. Do you follow? That was the number. That was the frequency that gave you the information of the number. If you go back to that number, all it will do is give you the state and the frequency that is germane to accessing the number. 

So in other words, like a loop, it's a self-contained loop. 

In other words, there's not actually a set um it's not like a scale that you move up and down. It's more like just any anywhere along the can be accessed instantly.

---

## The Uncertainty Principle and Frequency

This will require a little bit of what you call a primary physics lesson. Listen for the paradox. We are not saying there is not a corresponding frequency number to a state in which you can create other things. What we are saying is you either in that state create other things and don't know what the number is or you know what the number is and can't create other things. 

In your physics, it's called the uncertainty principle. You can neither know simultaneously the momentum of an object, the speed of an object, and at the same time know its position.


**Well, what about like wait, do you understand the uncertainty principle in your quantum physics?**

**Basically, all right, listen again. It is important that you understand it before you start asking more questions or making more statements.**

If you throw a ball, you can know that the ball may be going at 100 miles an hour. But if you measure how fast it's going, then you can't focus on any given point of the ball's trajectory. If you focus on a given point of where the ball is at any given moment, then in a sense the measurement freezes the ball and you can't know how fast it's going. You can only know where it is or you can know how fast it's going. You cannot know where it is and how fast it's going simultaneously.

So with this frequency idea, yes, there is a corresponding frequency to every particular state and in that state you can do perhaps many things that you could not necessarily do at a lower frequency state.

We are not saying that you can't empirically understand that well I know I can do generally this at 156,000 cycles per second and I know I can't do it at 144. But the point is is that when you're in that state, you don't really know exactly what your frequency is because if you did, that's all you would know. 

You would not necessarily be able to manifest anything else at that moment if you knew both exactly the frequency and were trying to experience the state simultaneously.

**Well, I'm what I was talking about is being able to use it like BOF feedback to increase it to a higher and higher level so that you can get up to like what you talked about before the 333 the 666 to be able to access those other realms.**

I understand what you are asking but I am telling you that you are taking the long way around.

**Okay.**

The answer to your question in that sense is if you have created for yourself a moment where you know what frequency you are at when you're in a high energy state then the next time simply aim for the feeling of the high energy state and don't care what the actual number is. That's what will allow you to expand beyond that frequency and do more.

**Let I was wondering if you**

**Wait a minute. Speak up so that all may hear what you have to share.**

**For telempathy.**

**Telempathy. Yes.**

**When you're experiencing actually hearing another person's voice or words within yourself. Yes. What frequency level?**

It does not require necessarily that you attain a particular frequency level to experience telempathy. All it requires is that you be on the same frequency as someone else.

**I have a question. One moment. Do you understand that? Depending on telempathy simply means you are synchronized with the frequency of the individual you are sharing the thought with. It's resonance identification. You can be at a very low frequency and experience telempathy as long as you're both on the same frequency.**

**I got it. You figure that out now.**

**Does that help you?**

**Yeah, that helps a lot.**

**I have another one for you.**

**All right. Speak up.**

---

## Question: Judgment and Experience

**So before you do that I want to clarify. Is it a general truth then to say that judgment removes you from the experience?**

**Yeah.**

**And in that way is it removes you from that experience and gives you the experience of judgment.**

**Yes.**

All things are an experience. And if you want to experience judgment then judge. But it's either either or. I mean if you're in the business of saying wow I'm doing really well. That's taking you away from what you're trying to do.

**In some senses, yes. As you mean that pragmatically, yes.**

And in fact, in some ways, we are not saying that you cannot recognize the state that you are in. For there is a constant state of recognition on what you would call higher frequency levels that translates out to an overwhelming sense of unconditional love and gratitude for what it is you are experiencing simultaneous within the experience itself as part of the experience.

The idea therefore though is that at the moment you start to in a sense analyze that you somehow reduce the frequency you follow and that's why you can't create what you want if you have doubt or any other feelings around what you want to create. You just have to keep vibrating there.

**All right. Now again yes on one empirical level but let's keep this honest because whatever it is now pay attention this is critical this is critical this is critical whatever it is empirically you create by definition is what you wanted or you would have gotten something else and when I say what you wanted it means that's the motivational definitional result that is in sync with what you strongly believe to be true at that moment. Therefore, in a sense, it is what you wanted. Even if empirically you know there's an idealized idea above and beyond that what you get is what you want because you have to learn how to use that in a way in a functional constructive positive way to allow yourself to understand how this is a part of getting that instead of an interruption in getting that. So this is still what you want.**

In other words, as we have said, what is needs to be fully accepted before what is can become something else. If you don't use the stepping stone that's there, you leave a gap and can't get to the stepping stone beyond. So you have to acknowledge that what is is what you wanted. And by acknowledging that what is is what you wanted, you can learn how to use what is in a constructive and positive way. Seeing it as part of everything that is your excitement instead of an interruption in it.

**Does that make sense?**

**Okay.**

---

## Question: Spacetime vs. Time Space

**Are we ready for the next?**

**Yeah, we're ready for the next. Here we go, guys. Please clarify and explain spacetime versus time space.**

**All right.**

**And how they relate in third-dimension reality.**

All right. Spacetime is what you call matter. Time space is what you call energy.

**Do you understand this?**

**Well, no, we don't understand. That's why we want help.**

**Oh, I see. Because you've said that before. We don't understand that means.**

All right. It to some degree goes back to the idea of the prime radiant being that there is really only one single entity. If you wish to call it a particle, that is fine. One single particle that rushes around at infinite speed, being everywhere at once, being every particle that you perceive as multiple particles. It's all the same one particle rushing around at infinite speed interacting with itself.

So when it does this in a certain pattern, when it intersects and interacts with itself at infinite speed in a certain geometric pattern, it's called spacetime. It's called matter. It's called structure. It's called organization. It's called order. When it does it in between whatever is in between that is time space energy chaos randomness.

So this is very pertinent to what we are doing here because what you call these geometric solids, these regular solids, the lines that define the edges of the solids are the geometric definition of where this infinitely fast-moving particle intersects with itself in a way that creates in your perception regularity and order out of randomness. And that geometric relationship of itself to itself is called spacetime or matter.

**You follow that?**

**Are you sure?**

**Perfectly.**

**All right.**

**Okay.**

**Yeah.**

---

## Question: The Movie "Contact"

**Oh, and we had one other question.**

**Yes.**

**Are you familiar with the movie Contact?**

**Yes.**

**What Jodie Foster's character experienced**

**Yes.**

**in the spacecraft.**

**Yes.**

**And traveling through the wormholes to this other dimensional**

**Yes.**

**communication.**

**Yes.**

**Is that similar to what you can experience by projecting your consciousness into the tesseract?**

**Yes.**

**Oh, fabulous.**

**And that was a really good representation of being in other dimensions.**

**Yes.**

**Got to go see the movie.**

**Oh, hey.**

This is why we say it is important for you to give yourself visualizations especially in the immersive environment of that which is also accompanying the light with sound because then your emotions, your senses, everything is in a sense caught up in that. And you glean the experience more fully and can bring that experience to bear on understanding your energy and what it is you really are as an expanded being. Because everything you're feeling in that experience when you're watching such things is the energy you actually are.

**Right? So you can by recreating what you experience when you see the movie, you can become more adept at doing this.**

And if you will have also paid attention, you will have noticed that intuitively the designers used the very geometric structure that surrounded the sphere to represent the idea of regular polyhedral structures.

**Do you remember you talking about the loops that went around it?**

The loops are part of it, but if you will have paid attention, the actual capsule, the spherical capsule was surrounded by a polyhedral structure.


**Yeah. I mean, that's what I thought it was to begin with was it was a very strong and direct analogy of entering into a dimensional polyhedral tesseract type structure.**

## The 45-Degree Angle and Ancient Hebrew


**Male Asker:** Could you explain what a 45 degree angle turn and how to access other realities and how this relates.

**Bashar:** Imagine a clear, transparent sphere.

See a point at the center.

There are 3 vectors that are important to understand for the idea of the first three dimensions that will then take you into the fourth. 

The 3 vectors are:

1. 180°
2. 90° which is half of that
3. 45 which is again half of that

Now focus on this point at the center of the sphere and go 180 degrees, up and down. 

So you've got the north pole point and the south pole point.

You now have a line like an axis going through the center of the sphere to the point on top, point in the middle, point on the bottom.

That is the 180° vector that you can plot or course within a sphere. 

The next line which would cross it like an X in a sense through the equator through the center like a chord from the center point out to two points.

This would be a 90° would it not to the first line. 

Then 90° to that will give you the XYZ axis.

From this point, the only other vector is 45s. 
- You've already done 180.
- You've done the 90s. 

In between all of those, both along the equator and in between each of the equator points and the north and south pole points, you have another 45° angle point.

When you draw all of the 180, 90, and 45 degree angle vector points, you will find that including the center point, you have 27 points. 

You can plot this out later if you can't see it in your head now. You will find this to be true.


### The 27 Points

27 points represents the three vectors that are required for the full coverage of the third-dimensional reality that then describes the sphere that is the connection from your reality to a higher dimensional reality along with the understanding of the geometric forms.

This has all been encoded in many of your ancient languages. 

This is why what you call your ancient Hebrew text has 27 letters. It describes these 27 points. 

**Each point is a different tone and a different vector.** 

if you can learn to see each of these shapes of these letters and turn them around in your head and make them become all the other letters, you will have taken yourself through all three vectors, all 27 points.

that will be analogous to the kind of mental gymnastics that we're also talking about when you turn the polyhedrals around in your head as well. 

That's why each of these letters is **chanted**, not just spoken, but chanted. This is because each chant is a **tone** that at least originally corresponded to the shift key that each letter represented.

All of those 27 letters are composed from the same spiral shape. 

**That is the active principle in creation.** 

If you take a spiral, similar to the idea of what you would call a ram's horn, not just a flat spiral, but one that's extended up like a ram's horn, a corkscrew spiral going from a broad base to a point.

Along the Fibonacci sequence along the golden proportion sequences again like the ram's horn spiral.

if you take the **shadow** of that shape and if you hold that shape in all of the 27 positions we have described about the sphere you will see that the shadow of the shape will change into all 27 of the Hebrew letters.

That's what Stant Tenn is working with yes but this is why it's that way.

It's connected interdimensionally to the three vectors of interdimensionality that you need to describe the full dimension you live in. So that having all those cores, all those vibrations in one, you can then translate to a higher dimension.

This was known to ancient peoples, ancient Hebrews. It was known completely intuitively.

**Asker:** how was it lost or is was it saved in any of the texts like the Cabala?**

It is saved in many of the texts such as the Cabala and many of the ancient Hebrew text and many of the ancient Sanskrit texts and many of the ancient Atlantean texts that you will find again.

But the idea is again that intuitively it was known and the idea is that you have forgotten because of the degree of segregation, separation and limitation that you have gone through on your journey to understand third-dimensional reality. But in the whole this is not a negative thing. You will now use all of this. 

You now have all this experience, as you say, under your belt. You understand third-dimensional reality very well. And now you can take all of the limitation and transform it into an unlimited application.



## Question: Folded Space


**Asker:** What is folded space and how can we is it possible for us to fold it?

Yes. you actually do that all the time. 

folded space is really nothing more than another way of understanding that everything is actually here and now. 

The idea is really to understand again there is only one spot here. There is only one now and that is this moment one moment now. And everything is in a sense folded up within that.

in the physics sense, folded space can have a slightly different meaning.

but it's still really based on the same principle that things can interpenetrate interdimensionally so that more than one thing can occupy any given volume at any given time as long as it interpenetrates each other in an interdimensional way.


**Asker:**  Could you give us like a brief description on how that relates into physics?

It would be similar to your wormhole. 

In a sense, it represents that in one particular structure, there is automatically unfolded a volume of space that in normal three-dimensional linear space-time terminology would require a much bigger volume to access or to get to or to travel to. Whereas in the wormhole, it's all wound up. It's all folded up. 

It's all bent up in a relatively short amount of volume or space.


**Asker:** How can we find, access, or use a wormhole in this in the sense of physics?**

it can be created through certain devices with enough concentration of electrogravitic energy in any one given point that will actually allow space to be bent and folded up. 

If the gravitational amplification is strong enough, although of course if you're not careful, it will wreck havoc on your physical reality plane because it will literally smash anything within reach.


**Asker:** is this related in any way to the propulsion systems that the Grays use?

Some yes to some degree. Yes, it is to some degree in some ships a folded space type of effect that is achieved by their technology.

**Asker:** Do they use gravity amplification?

**Yes.**

**Asker:**  is there an involvement with the Bose Einstein condensate and how that relates to this?

There is to some degree but it is tangential. We will not go in that direction right now. 


## Question: The Tesseract vs. Other Sacred Geometry

**Asker:**  What does the tesseract allow us to experience versus the other forms of sacred geometry?

The tesseract will allow you a little bit clearer perception that is designed to match the orientation you are already used to in perceiving physical reality because the cube is an apt description, an apt analogy geometrically of your third density reality. 

And thus the tesseract being a hyper cube will bring with it some degree of familiarity that some of the other shapes may not have for you at first. They may seem a little too foreign to you in terms of the way the information is processed within them. Whereas a cube having height, width and depth is very familiar to you in terms of the three axes of physical reality.

**Asker:** Will you give us a sound tone going tones going up so we can keep raising our frequency?

**Nope.**


## Resonance Identification

**Asker:** How do we get into resonance identification?

Love. Unconditional love. This is the idea of resonance identification. You must match the frequency. You must synchronize. You must harmonize. The easiest way to do that is to unconditionally love something.

The idea then is that that's why we have expressed that when you immerse yourself in this when you love it in the same way you would fall in love with anything or anyone then you will have resonance identification. You will breathe it, you will live it, you will know it. It will be second nature. It will be you. That's resonance identification.

There are many methodologies that you can utilize. Trust your imagination on this. But the primary fundamental underlying principle in all of it is literally unconditional love and absolute acceptance of the highest energies and excitement and creativity within yourself for yourself and for everything within infinite creation. That's really the fundamental principle.


## Final Question and Preparation

**Asker:** Can we manifest something from the tesseract?

I don't know. That's up to each and every one of you.

**Do you think we can do it collectively with you and take will you take us through and see if we can manifest it?**

I know you can. We can. It is not up to me to decide if you will.

**Okay. Then we're all deciding that we will.**

No no can't do it that way. Expectation.

**Oh okay. No expectation. We're going to have a lot of fun with it.**

