---
title: "The Tides of March"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1998-03-06
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
---



The ides of March is March 15th, an auspicious energy.

It represents a kind of stepping up period in your collective consciousness.

The tides of March represents energy and consciousness like your ocean having eddies, currents, tides.

The collective consciousness of your planet has collective momentum, inertia in a sense a kind of mass and momentum.

It has tides. It has currents like a stream and will flow to certain areas will flow in certain ways. 

You can take advantage of this when you are allowed by yourself to become aware of this more consciously that you have these energies is the result of all of the collective agreements telepathically that you all make at every moment. 

Many times without even knowing that you are speaking to each other in this way to reinforce the concepts and beliefs in your collective reality and of course as a result in your individual reality as well your personal reality as well. 

When you can learn to be sensitive to these tides, these currents, then you can with more clarity, chart them in the same way, in the same manner, that you would chart the currents of the sea and learn to sail upon them to your advantage, so that they will guide you, so that they will draw you, so that they will take you where it is you wish to go, rather than being taken off course, so to speak. 

These tides amplify at certain times of the year and this your March month is one such time. It is why it is intuitively labeled by many of you astrologically as your sign of Pisces which is in your minds the idea of the symbol of psychic functioning. 

When you become more capable of being sensitive to those subtle energies or what energies you typically think of as subtle but which can become more pronounced, more profound and which you can become more keenly aware of. One of the ways, not the only way, one of the ways you can become more aware of the motion, the direction, the momentum, the speed of these tides of March is as follows. If you will allow yourself the opportunity if you wish to to find body of water. It can be an ocean. It can be a lake. It can even be one of your swimming pools. 

The idea would be to allow yourself to immerse yourself, your body in this water. It is not impossible that you can even do this in what you call one of your bathtubs. But the more room around you you have, the better. And as you float in this water, attempt to do so on your back. 

If you have difficulty floating, you can use a device that floats and you can lie on the device, a raft or board or flotation device if that will help you. But be out in the water, whether you are physically in it or not, be surrounded by it. Allow yourself then to serenely float on your back. Be careful that you do not get burnt. Allow yourself some time, maybe about 15 of your minutes to close your eyes. Go inward, relax, breathe, let everything go. Forget about your day-to-day world. Just float and surrender yourself to these energies, these currents. Just open up to them in whatever way, shape, or form your imagination says is the easiest method for you. Imagine that you feel them coursing through you. Imagine that you see them. Imagine that you hear them. Whatever works best for you. Any one or all of these or others will do. Just let your imagination be your guide as to how you feel like relating to this concept. And as you float there out in the water feeling these currents going through you, allow yourself in your serenity to get a sense of direction. Allow them to orient you. Some of you may begin to feel a tingling in your body, sometimes specifically in your sinus cavity area due to the preponderance of the substance called magnetite in your sinuses which actually aligns and orients you to the magnetic field of your planet that will be involved but what we are talking about here of course there's more subtle energies but let yourself begin to feel that it is orienting you to yourself to your purpose to your truth to your natural consciousness. Let yourself feel if you have been feeling out of sorts, out of alignment, harried, stressed, worried, finding yourself beset by difficulties or what you would define as problems. Let yourself feel that this energy, this current is bringing you back into true position like a compass needle. Imagine yourself like a compass needle. You don't actually have to find yourself pointing north literally, but find your true north in yourself, your truth north for yourself. Whatever that feeling is, whatever that image may be, whatever that sound may be, whatever that thought may be, whatever that word may be that your imagination comes up with that represents that knowingness that your heart, your mind, your soul, your spirit, your body, your existence is aligned. That natural state wherein you can say without hesitation, this is how I want to feel all the time. This therefore is who I really am. This is the frequency of energy I operate best on. This is my creative energy. This is my natural self in whatever way you wish to express it. And you allow yourself to feel that alignment, that moment, that vibration, that energy, then you have allowed yourself to take advantage of these currents in collective consciousness that regardless of what your personalities may resist in your day-to-day lives, regardless of the frustrations and the deignments you may think you experience, your natural proclivity, your natural inclination is to actually allow yourself to float and align in the direction of love, of creativity. And allowing yourself to do that in this exercise will allow you, the more often you do it, to become more sensitive and more sensitized to picking up upon that exact and perfect frequency that is your true natural self. In that this month of March is auspiciously created by all of you to be a month of more high psychic sensitivity. Then you can take advantage of the acceleration provided by the collective consciousness of your people to allow yourself perhaps more opportunity, more likelihood to hone in and home in on this energy, on this vibration, on this willingness and allowance to let go and be your true self using this technique. This does not mean you cannot do it at any other time of the year, but take advantage of the current of the tide that is now high. And allow yourself to ride the tide of your own truth. For these are not just ideas. These energies do exist. You will and have begun to learn to actually measure them not only with your own senses, but with your machines in time. They do exist. But you biologically are already attuned to them. You were created to be attuned to them. So use the machine that can already sense them. And that is your body. And allow yourself, not make, not force, but allow yourself to ride that tide in your imagination by living in your imagination, by living in your heart. And understand that your heart has intelligence, has awareness, and can perfectly align you to the vibration of which we speak. It is designed to do that. Let it do so. Now then, we thank you for allowing us to share with you this notion of how to use your ocean. And in return for the gift that you are giving to our civilization, in allowing us to communicate with you in this way, I ask now in return for this gift, in what way may I be of service to you? What? You and then you male is number two. Do you know who you are? Female is number three. Do you know who you are? Yes. Number one. Good day. Hi Bashar. To you. Good day. Um I've been getting very excited about my upcoming trip to Costa Rica. Getting very excited. Well, I am very excited. Thank you. I've been reading about it and even though I was there about 13 or 14 years ago, I um I'm seeing it with new eyes. Oh, all right. Of course, because you are a new you every moment, right, if you let yourself be. So now you're going to the rich coast. Yes. Yes. And um and I'm I'm excited too about overcoming my phobia of spiders as we've discussed. Oh, all right. Yes. It is a good challenge and opportunity for you. It is. Yes. And I I went to this man that I discussed with you last time and did a session with him um which was very interesting. It lasted two hours, which uh usually only lasts an hour. All right. Um and he brought some spiders in a jar. One of them had eaten the other one. All right. And uh I found as usual, just even having it in a jar in proximity to me very frightened and shaken. And um what amazed me first of all is that before we even got to that, he gave me a deep analysis of my life um through the palm of my hand through his an uh palm therapy. Nice. which I I thought was really accurate. All right. Um although I didn't know about some of the things such as uh adapting very of before he told me that before I was a year old I was walking and talking which I didn't know about and apparently I did do that. All right. Um so that gave me more confidence in him and um and in yourself and in myself. All right. And he told me that the fear of the spiders was just the tip of the iceberg that the fears that I have are very deep sea. Yes. As we have discussed and that uh they do you remember? Yeah. All right. Yeah. And I I'm learning now to understand it a little more I think. And as we have said, one of the techniques that helped you learn how to dive deeper was to learn to dive in the ocean. Right. Right. So you are beginning to find different techniques in your outer world that act as symbols that allow you permission to dive more deeply into the inner world. The spider is also acting for you as one such symbol. For at the heart you will find the idea is that you are feeling like you are stuck in a web. Feeling in that sense that there are predators around you but you have to learn what it means to be at the center of the web and that you can from there then pull all the strings that need to be pulled in the proper manner. Do you follow? That's when you discussed that u part of it was my fear of my own power. Yes. And so the fear of being caught in the web but also of being able to manipulate the web and my own power manipulate not meaning in a negative way. Right. Right. Well is all right. Very good. Thank you for allowing yourself to create and attract into your life things that are capable of allowing you to see more clearly who you are. Very good. Anything else? Yeah. Um at the same time um I had gone to um a physical therapist, a massage therapist who did deep uh tissue massage on my lower back. Nice. And it helped a little bit but not very much. Um one time sometimes is not enough. Right. Well, what was interesting was that the first the first night after I'd seen him, I was still in deep pain. The second night it was a little lesser, but there was still pain. And the third day there was still pain. But then that the third day was when I did the uh spider therapy. And the pain disappeared. Guys, understand that very often the idea of many of the pains that many of you go through emotionally actually become in many ways locked into the muscles into the neurological system of your body. The deep tissue therapy, the deep pressure massage is for the purpose of in a sense breaking them loose, scrambling the patterns up, allowing them to start to come to the surface. Over time, the deep muscular therapy massage can allow them to be erased. But very often, they will simply loosen things up enough so that you can have more to work with and attract yourself to other circumstances that will then allow you to deal with has been broken up within you and allow them to be transformed. You follow? Yes. It is like breaking up something that you can then by other techniques allow to finish all the way, allow to dissolve the rest of the way. So they work hand in hand. They do. Okay. Um and then I found myself um around my birthday last week going through deep depression. Well, all right. Compression or depression? Depression. All right. If you wish to label it that way, go ahead. Um I seem to go through this every year in the sense that I have feelings of isolation of isolation. Yeah. Of loneliness of um of lack of accomplishment. Lack of accomplishment. And uh but at the same time I had to have lived another year. That's an accomplishment on your planet. No, but at the same it is at the same time I had uh on the day I had a wonderful day and and um all these incredible things are happening and two friends that had dropped out of my life came. You don't have to go into details and just understand that things are starting to balance when you begin to look at them that way. Well, the last few days I have just been so in love with my life. Well, there you are. So, let it continue that way and understand that you simply use these bouts of so-called depression to dive again deeply within yourself into what we call compression. to go to the center of your being where you know the information you require resides to bring it to the surface so that you can use it in your life. That's what you're doing when you label it as something negative. And when you choose to focus on the negative side of it, then it may seem darker than it needs to be. I'm not trying to take your feelings away from you. For if you choose to experience it that way, then so be it. And that is valid. But I'm simply mechanically telling you what you're doing. You follow? Uhhuh. And I I'm just curious because you had said that I would be getting a birthday gift and I wasn't conscious of one and if um if if you can elaborate if that was it the realization of this or that was part of it. Is there anything else I'm not aware of that? Yes. And that's all right because that's the nature of birthday gifts. You want it to be in a sense a surprise. It will unfold and continue to unfold through your month of March. All right. Okay. And and just a last note that I'm um my son Adam the my hybrid child. comments for now on this. No, no, no, no, no. Thank you. Number two, a good day. And a you good day. Um I just uh came back from Michigan. It worked out synchronistic for me that you weren't channeling last that you weren't coming through last Friday. Uh that I ended up going to Michigan to learn some advanced remote viewing protocols. All right. And did you have a good time? Um, hesitation usually means no. Probably not. Or at least you're not sure. Hard time getting along in a group situation. Oh, I see. All right. Why? Um, probably because I'm I'm used to getting my own way and I'm not spoiled. Oh, all right. Thank you for your honesty. Continue. But, uh, when we did learn the, uh, the numbers protocol. Yeah, I see. uh which is using basically your fingers and the nerve endings in your fingers to pick up on single digits and short of doing a separate which is a abbreviated session. Short of doing this uh for each uh for each digit of the number and then doing a a a line as far as to come up with how many numbers uh there are in the sequence. Do you have any uh suggestions on how to better hone or how better to a better adaptation of this? No, not really. This is a technique that can work, but the idea really for many people will have to do with the degree of their own interest in having mathematical proclivity. The idea being that individuals who seem drawn to the idea of math and proportions and ratios and thinking in terms of digits in that way may at first allow themselves more opportunity to key into this technique and find results that will work for them. Other individuals may find that they may have to overlay or substitute in a sense a different kind of system even though you may be using a similar technique. In other words, some individuals may have to not think of digits as they utilize their fingers, but may have to think of numbers as colors, may have to think of numbers as sounds, have to think of numbers as feelings in order for it to really work cleanly and clearly and strongly for them. So, there's really nothing much I can say about the technique itself other than it may need to be tailored for the individual tastes and modes of expression of the individual utilizing that technique. But that will come by simple use and allowance of your imagination and going with the flow as your imagination guides you. Well, I'm talking about me specifically. Yes, I know that. And uh I'm I uh equate very well to numbers. Yeah, it's all right. Well, then so uh but what I'm having a hard time with the first time I did it, I got uh about 5,000 to1 odds against me getting what I got, which I got two out of four random numbers in the right spot. Yeah. I see. And then what happened? And and then from there it started uh where I wasn't kidding anything. I would occasionally get the right number. All right. Stop. Stop. Stop. Now pay attention for here is your conundrum. The fact that you are so strongly oriented toward numbers in this case you are allowing to actually work against you because as soon as you do it once you then start paying attention to the concept called odds and as you believe in the concept called odds you are yourself regulating the amount of times you are capable of believing that the next time can be just as successful. So, how do I get past it? In some senses, like I already suggested, you have to allow yourself to recognize that each time is actually the first time. In other words, you have to, to put it euphemistically in your language, believe in beginner's luck every time because you have to be a beginner every time. Okay? Instead of allowing yourself to buy into the continuity and the continuing additive factor, you call the use of the odds and the shifting of the odds as you progress. The odds have to be the same every time you do it for you. Does that make sense to you? Yes. All right. And um I was just wondering uh as far as I last time you had talked to somebody else about the use of uh LSD or psilocybin mushrooms uh as a form of mind expansion in certain ways. Yes. When done with certain respect and in an appropriate manner? Yes. Okay. Can you make any suggestions on how this might be beneficial for me? No. Would it be beneficial for me? That depends. On what? On you. Okay. It depends on what you at this point believe in all honesty to be the strength of your emotional state relative to your relationship to life. Did you understand that? I'm not sure I did. All right. We began this conversation by saying or by you expressing quite honestly that you felt you had difficulty getting along in group situations. Yes. Well, that is one expression of how you feel about your relationship to life. Now sometimes the utilization of these substances can help you in that area but you must be cautious because if you go in thinking it's going to do it for you or you go in with another intention and not realizing that what you really need to work on is that relationship. It can because of your assumption lead you astray and not necessarily come out as fulfilling or as pleasant as you may have wanted it to be. If you can however begin to get as you say a handle on this particular area that you have described that you feel in some senses causes tension within you. Then you may find that when you do a little work in that area first then you may be able to take advantage of how those substances may help you in that regard. But I would suggest strongly that you do the work you need to do first without it. Okay. All right. And as far as as far as that goes though, yes. Which substance would you think for me would I am not going to tell you because you are not ready as we have just said. Okay. Thank you. Number three. And you are number four. Hi Bashar. And to you. Good day. Uh last week I uh nice felt nice some of the deepest depression. Oh, you too. Yeah, me too. Oh, all right. I had ever felt in my life. And it was so profound that um I literally stopped the flow of the feeling because it scared me. Oh, all right. Scared you because what did you think might happen if you let it go? I felt I felt like I didn't want to live. Oh, all right. You didn't want to live. Was useless and worthless. Useless. Worthless. All right. Very good. You have tapped into a very deep issue. Very good. And um it h it was a couple of days that this was going on, but it's not very often in my life that I ever feel depressed or allow myself actually to feel these things. Oh, all right. If you say so. And I basically didn't really allow myself to go down. But as a result, Yes. What did you learn? I felt like I needed to get out uh of the city for a while. Well, I'm going to go I'm making plans to go to where to Palm Desert from the 5ifth 14th through the 21st. All right. Of your present month. Of my Yes. Of the present month. All right. And what is from one seven number to another seven number? Right. Very good. There'll be a pool available. Oh. All right. And I Good time to use it. Yes. And and to do the exercise that you talked about. It would be highly recommended for you. Yes. And um And um Yes. And I started taking St. John wart bec because because it makes you laugh when you say it. That's as effective a remedy as anything. Yes. Yes. All right. Um, I guess why I'm discussing this with you is the fact that I suppressed that deep feeling. Hey guys means that what that I that I suppressed it. I don't want to feel it. All right. Why not? Can you help me a little bit explore why I went through that? Yes. Or is that okay? Are you ready? Yes. Are you sure? Yeah, I'm ready. You might be scared. I know I am. But if you become scared, all you have to do is say St. John's wart. Okay? And you'll pull yourself right out. Now, okay. This does not mean, pay attention. Pay attention. This does not mean you should not feel your fear, right? For you do need to for it is an honest feeling. If you are scared, you're scared. All right? Admit it. Be honest. Accept it. Okay? It is not to be denied. And it is also all right for you to regulate and guide yourself to whatever depth of whatever feeling you're having that you prefer or want to be at at any given moment regardless of the reason. So first of all and foremost give yourself permission to let it be all right to have stopped it when you did. Okay? You follow? Yes. So that at least you're not heaping upon top of the whole thing. More judgment. I see. Okay. Which will only bury you deeper and give you more to dig your way out of. Okay. So whatever it is you do, you do. Have we got that straight? Yes. Thank you. Now then, many of you will begin to go deeper and deeper and deeper and deeper. Many of you may experience it as depression, but you don't have to. But if you do, that's all right. Understand that the degree of the depth of what you are calling depression that you are now feeling you specifically and many others is because you can go deeper because you're stronger now because you are more integrated. And it is all right to dive more deeply and learn more about what has been buried down there. And if you stop and need to come up for air, that's all right. You will make deeper and deeper dives. But the fact that it was that deep of a depression shows you that you can handle more information. Now, do you follow? Yes. Remember, as we have said, please don't forget. Please don't forget. Please don't forget. The more you become aware, the more you grow, the more you accelerate, the more you evolve, the more aware you're going to become of the dark as well as the light because you contain everything and can deny nothing in full integration. Do you follow? Yes. So take it to heart, okay, that when you experience that degree of depth, it means that you are thus capable of experiencing that degree of height. Do you follow? Yes. Remember the rubber band concept? The farther back you pull the rubber band onto the dark side. When you finally let it go, the faster and farther it will fly onto the light side. Okay? Use these analogies to guide you so that when you feel that you are in those deep dark depths even while you're allowing yourself to explore that to find out what it is that is buried there, you can still maintain an awareness simultaneously that that's what you're doing it for and that that is representative of how much stronger you have become that you can go that much more deeply into yourself. Does this make some sense to you? Yeah, it does. And it it feels like u the next time it happens, if it happens, that um I won't be afraid. And if you are, then so what? Yes. Incorporate the fear into the experience and remember that fear is simply a message. It is a message telling you that there are things within your consciousness, beliefs, definitions, and ideas that you have had lodged into your consciousness in growing up on your planet that are not necessarily aligned with the truth of who you actually are as a being, as a spirit. You follow me? Yes. And therefore, it's going to be bumpy down there. That's the point. The whole point is that in diving down there and retrieving those things, what you're actually retrieving, even though you may go down and find this what you call ugly, deep, messy, gunky, black thing, glop or lump of some foul, putrid, nasty smelling, rotting substance. When you are willing to reach in with both hands and scoop it up from the ocean floor and bring it back up to the surface with you, your passage back up to the surface coming through the water will allow the gunk to fall away. And when you arrive at the surface, you will find the treasure, the jewel that was hidden at the core. And it will shine brightly in the sun as you break through the surface and you will see the vastness of the wisdom of the ocean. Are you following this analogy? Yes, I am following. When you allow your imagination the free reign that you need to allow it, you too will see these things in the way we have just described to you without effort. They will come to you. these images, these inspirations, these ways of looking at these experiences and ways of describing them so that you can orient yourself in a more positive way to them will automatically come to you when you allow your imagination the same freedom that we allow ours. Do you follow that? Yes. Does this help you? Yes, it does. I have one little question about Oh, one little question. Yes. when when I'm not I'm not really adept at going into my feelings. I'm nonsense. So when this nonsense nonsense Okay. Um when this starts repeat after me. Nonsense. Nonsense. Nonsense. Nonsense. When these feelings start coming up. Yes. It is not my inclination to dissect. So I didn't say you were dissecting. That's what I want to clarify because I would just allow it allow myself to feel it and go deeper into it and just allow what comes up come. Ask your heart intelligence to help you understand and know what it is within the feeling you need to know. It's not a dissection. Okay? It's a dialogue. It's a dialogue. Do you follow? Yes. It's a dialogue. Your heart energy is specifically designed in the form of intelligence that it is to deal exactly with that. Okay, you follow. Yes. Does this help you? Yes. Then thank you. Number four. And to you good day. 

Oh, I had a birthday, too. Oh, all right. Happy birthday to you as well. Mine was a 3 * 13. All right. I was playing with the I was I listened to the 13 um the lecture that you gave about it and the 13th floor. Mhm. Go out and find the 13th floor and see what's on it. And I'm I'm still uh excited. I'm going to do it uh physically to a building, but I also heard you say uh to explore it in many ways. And yes, so I was, you know, me and my rubber stamps, I was uh playing with the images of the 13. All right. And um I just sometime in what you call your future, we will specifically conduct what you call an interaction on this subject of the creation of the 13th floor and the 13th step. proceed. Oh, I I just wanted to share that I do enjoy playing with the symbols and I I I made mandalas. Nice. As a a kid, I they told me that the number two looked like a swan. So, I would just do pages of them, one facing the other, so they could all be looking at each other instead of and you know, I just like to look at the shapes of things instead of what they they mean. Yes. That was assuring. Um, thank you. a question. I asked you a a and in light of that, in light of your number two and in light of your number 13, what do they look like together? If you move the three close enough to the one, like a B. Yes. To be Oh, cute. Thank you. Oh, that that was funny. I wanted to share a thing with you. There was a a little a joke about um to be or not to be. And guys, I'll have to bring it back. Oh, all right. It was written down, but thank you for your synchronicity. Yeah, it was funny. It It was a cute one, and I knew you'd appreciate it. I appreciate everything. Um I asked you about my ring finger on my right hand a few weeks ago, guys. And you said no. Oh, and I was assuming you were straight shooting that it was no on that it was not interaction, not that no you weren't going to talk about it. It is correct. It was not an interaction. That is what no meant. Very good. I that's what I thought. Does that help you then? Well, now I wanted to still explore it because No. No. Oh, anything else quickly? Okay. Yeah. Sugar. You said that we were going to be all having uh challenging relationships with sugar. Yes. And I find myself getting up in the middle of the night. I guess my resistance is down and I just like go for the sweets. Yes. And your resistance is down because of them. It is what you call in many cases a vicious circle. We are not condemning it outright. We would never condemn anything outright for anything in moderation will not harm you. But we understand some of the reasons, the psychological reasons that people on your planet create the idea of cravings and yearnings and addictions for certain things. And many of these things are based to begin with in relatively self-destructive and/or negative causalities. Therefore, you will find that in excess, this substance will lead to the idea of the lowering of the resistance of your iminological system, which in turn will lower your actual resistance to the substance. Meaning, you want more. Yes. You you I know you said you have Daryl's experiences, but you guys don't have a clue how good things taste. Oh, yes, we do. Remember that our civilization is physical and we have things on our planet that in the past we ate and they tasted wonderful. It is true that we no longer do but we have the collective memory of those experiences. And and the part about like like during the day it doesn't bug me but in the middle of the night I mean I can I'm fine, you know, my resistance is you know my brains are working but in the middle of the night I'm just like just go there. Begin by allowing yourself to remember how important it is to have a high water intake. I was going to tell you I do drink more water when I when I do that. I know that at least up the water. Thank you. Allow yourself to remember that obviously there are other issues at hand and we will get into those more deeply at another time. Looking forward. Love you and you as well. Thank you. You and to you. Good day. And then No, you all right. You can be three. Thank you. I'm very very happy to be here this evening. Um All right. We are very happy that you are happy to be there. Several years ago, I was diagnosed with breast cancer and was able to um be part of a wonderful healing experience. Right. Very much aware of the power that lies within each of us to heal ourselves. Yes. Congratulations. And I am grateful for the opportunity to um work with other women. 

Yes. In the book that I've written and um also in breakthrough uh coaching as well. That word in and of itself is the key to the transformation of many diseases on your planet. The word breakthrough. Gratitude. Oh, gratitude. By being in gratitude. By being in a state of grace and gratitude, you will find that it is very easy, relatively speaking, for people to then go back to their natural state in which disease is foreign and not allowed. Do proceed. Well, I actually I'm very humbled by the experience. Um, same difference as you say. Yeah. Um, however, I do have one a residual that's left over. Oh, all right. A residual. That is Well, I was under the impression that you people liked collecting residuals. Not anymore. Oh, all right. Um, if you still have it, then you must believe it serves you somehow. This is what I I want to get to. I I believe I have the power to heal whatever it is I want to heal in my life. All right. You believe it. Do you know it? I do know it. All right. Thank you. This is why I'm I'm asking this question. Yes. And that would be what? I recently did a past life regression. Yes. Just by myself. Yes. And got in touch with um a past life where my left arm was severed. All right. By It's happened to many of you. Yes, I'm aware of that. Yes. Um your left arm was severed. Yes. All right. Was it the left arm for many others as well? Well, yes, sometimes the right. You have been through just about anything you can imagine in many of your lives. All of you. Okay. Um, in this lifetime, the left arm has um remained swollen as a result of removal of the lymph nodes from breast cancer. All right. Was caught early and everything, but the lymph nodes were removed nonetheless. May I ask you a question? Yes. Be honest in your answer. Absolutely. And of course we understand that there can be some semantic confusion or misunderstandings in your language. So we will understand if there is some hesitation in answering this question. Okay. I brace myself. Oh. All right. Brace yourself. Here it comes. Ready? Okay. Do you believe in the intelligence of the body? Absolutely. How do you define that concept? I believe that the intelligence is within the cells of the body. All right. And that and and and um the cells Yes. are within the soul actually that the intelligence is also in the soul and so it carries on from one life to time to the other. Yes. Do you believe that your body has a spirit? that the body has a spirit. Absolutely. Nope. The body does not have a spirit. The spirit has a body. Oh, I see. Okay. Your spirit is not actually in your body. Your body is in your spirit. Got it. Do you follow and see the difference? Yes. In that sense, the non-physical you, just to put it in your language, is the bigger of the two. The body is a manifestational projection like a crystallization within the spirit and the spirit in a sense extends beyond it and the body is immersed within it and the spirit interpenetrates it. But it is not that the spirit is actually contained in the body. It is more accurate and more precise to understand that the body is within the spirit in the way that a ice cube may be within a glass of water. Right? You understand? Yes. This is so go ahead. The overall intelligence of the body is also the overall intelligence of all of you. You have access to all of it. Do you follow that? 

Yes. Therefore, I will ask you now another question. Yes. In knowing that you are a whole being, can you allow the intelligence of your wholeness to express itself and be reflected by the aspect of the whole that you call the body? Can I allow Can you repeat that? Can I allow the body? Go ahead. Can you allow the intelligence that is in the whole of you to be mirrored and reflected in the body part of you? Yes. All right. If you do that, what do you think that would mean in terms of the effect that that would have on the body? It would be a healthy state of mind, body and spirit. And that would mean in your condition and in your case relative to what you have had done with the body what it would be completely healed. And that would mean what? That the um that it would also be completely whole. Whole, right? Which means regarding your lymph nodes, what? That there's they're whole. They're intact. That they would in a sense reappear. Do you understand? Yes. because they still exist. They still exist. The intelligence as it permeates through the body can in your terms recreate anything. Now, we're not saying you have to do that. We're not saying that you are more spiritual if you do that. Do you understand? because every one of you has a different path and it may not be your chosen path to actually remmanifest those particular organs in your body. All we are talking about is that the effect of that is definitely available to you. And sometimes when you allow the effect and the knowledge of that effect to be truly in the moment, it is highly possible and sometimes even probable that the body itself that you have from that point forward will actually exhibit physiological wholeness as well. But whether it does or not, you can create and extract energetic wholeness from it by coming from the position of the intelligence of the whole of you rather than simply restricting your focus to the intelligence of the body of you. Does this make some sense to you? Absolutely. in your own imagination. Then allow yourself to concoct and invent a specific, shall we say, going within, a specific meditation, a specific visualization, a specific feeling, a specific heartfelt experience of connecting with the totality of the knowing intelligent you, the whole you. And again, a big part of that feeling, a big part of that experience is the feeling you call gratitude. Do you follow this? Yes, I do. Is this making sense to you? Yes, it is. It is. Do you feel that it's sinking in? Yes. Do you feel it's becoming more clear than it was? Yes. Take a deep breath and let it out. Take a deeper breath and let it out. Take the deepest breath of all and hold on to it. Don't let it out. Hold on to it. Don't let it out. Hold on to it. Don't let it out. Hold on to it.

Don't let it out. Hold on to it. Don't let it out. Hold on to it. Don't let it out. He's kidding. Yes. Why am I kidding? To find humor in the situation. And because I don't know. Because when you constrict your access to intelligence, one of the first signs you have of that constriction in the tension in your body is to breathe shallowly or hold your breath. Deep breathing in many cases and in many times is actually the most profound and powerful key to reconnecting to the intelligence of all of you. That's why in what you call meditative and/or yogic breathing, you have people with sudden insights and inspirations beyond what they would normally think are accessible to your typical day-to-day personality. Breathing oxygenation is the key. So breathe breathe breathe yourself back to life. You follow? Yes. So you're saying in during meditation to breathe deeply. There is intelligence with every breath. Intelligence in the breath. All the knowledge. All the knowledge you need at every moment exists within the breath you take at that moment. In the next moment when you let it out, let that knowledge go. Don't hang on to what you don't need in that moment. Know beyond a shadow of a doubt that in the next instant with the next breath in will come all the knowledge you need at that moment. That is why many of you develop specific diseases that have to do with deep coughs. When you hold on to things you don't need, your body intelligence will attempt to expel it and that will be symbolized by the racking deep cough. Do you follow me? Yes. So breathe deep and with every breath let it be the only breath you ever need. Do you follow? Yes. Does this help you? Yes, absolutely. Um, do you have a time frame? Do you can do you see a time frame as to how long it will take for this to be Do you want me to play with your threshold of believability? No, I was just curious as to do you want me to play with your threshold of believability? You want to take a test? Sure. All right. Okay. You can all take the test with regard to any issue you wish to apply in this test. I ask you a series of questions. Answer yes as soon as you can after I ask the question, but only if you can truly honestly, totally without hesitation and without reservation and without any doubt whatsoever answer yes. Do you follow? Yes. Very good. You catch on quick. Now then, fast learner. 

Thank you. We'll see about that. Let's say just for the as we say sake of discussion, let's say that 20 years would be in your mind, yes or no, way more than enough time for this situation to be resolved completely. Yes or no? Yes. Others don't have to answer out loud. Answer to yourselves. But thank you for your enthusiasm. I am glad you are in the moment. Let's say is oh 10 years beyond a shadow of a doubt without hesitation more than enough time for the situation to be completely resolved. Yes. 5 years. Yes. One year. Yes. 3 months. Yes. Two days. Yes. Are you sure? Yes. Positive. You're not just saying it. No. All right. One second. Yes. Thank you. Oh, there was hesitation. You're right. All right. Okay. The idea here is is that when you do the countdown, the second in the countdown you hesitate to say yes at all, that is how long it will take on your present belief system structure. If you find out what belief you have that would make it take that long and change that belief, take the test again and find that you can go lower in time, then wherever you hesitate again will be as long as it takes on your present belief system structure. When you have changed everything in your belief system you possibly can, then wherever you stop, wherever you start hesitating, that is as long as it needs to take for whatever you deem to be the appropriate process that you need to go through in order for the transformation to occur. So it takes a second. It can. Okay. Did it? Did it? No. All right then. That's the other side of the threshold of believability. And it puts you in touch with your beliefs, your honesty, and your awareness of what beliefs you actually have. So now you can take the test so to speak the other direction. Did you change? Did you resolve it completely? Yes. No. No. I did. Well, I understand it more. All right. But are you who you want to be right now physically? Everything? No. All right. Thank you. Will you be so tomorrow? Yes. Are you sure? Yes. What if you're not? I'll do my damnest. Why? I I know I will. Why do you have to? Cuz I want to. Are you sure? Yes. Why are you so sure? It's because I want it. I do. Don't you want to right now? Well, yes, I do right now. Are you sure? Yes. Well, did it change? It It feels like it's changing some changing. All right. I mean, I walked in here with severe pain in my hand and it's not there now. Oh, all right. So, do you feel pretty good? I feel great. You feel great. All right. Do you enjoy this state right here, right now? This feeling? Yes. All right. Do you have any reason to not continue to experience this state? Be honest. No. Are you sure? Yes. All right. We'll see. Am I capable of planting doubt in your mind? Are you capable of planting doubt in my mind? 

Yes. In other words, if I say to you, yes, you feel great right now, but are you so sure you will tomorrow? What if the pain comes back? How do you feel about me saying these things? Because I have the clarity now. I understand. You understand what? Well, I understand what it takes to step into that space. And what does it take? Believing and gratitude and being. And what if the pain comes back? If it comes I I don't see it coming back. What if it did? Well, what if you know it's like living in fear? Yes. All right. Very good. So, it's not it's not my it's not my choice to live in that space. All right. Then I have another question for you. Okay. Why was it your choice to live in that space? Uncertainty about well not having the clarity of my whole self. And you feel you have that now? Absolutely. Oh, all right. Yeah. I thank you for giving me that. I didn't give it to you. Well, just like I can't plant any doubts in you, right? All of this is done by you. That's the point. I'm only reflecting. Thank you. Do you follow? Yes, I do. We are grateful for the experience. Our love to you unconditionally and mine to you as well. Thank you. Number two. Good evening, Bashar. And to you. Good day. Um, since we've last met, uh, we had another storm. Yes. And, um, I would like to ask for a balancing for um, a very important group of people in the in Laguna Canyon who have uh, and create a balancing. Why do you sound exasperated? Because you're interrupting me. We have this code of ethics. You sounded exasperated way before I interrupted you. That's why I interrupted you. To ask why you sounded exasperated. Why do you sound exasperated? All right. I perhaps because nobody else has mentioned this in the time frame that we've been here. So, and um I I think it would would be a good idea for the group if we brought in current events and asked for balancing because I have seen tremendous shifts. All right. But can I offer a suggestion? Yeah. Speak for yourself. I I am speaking for myself. Then stop suggesting what the group should do. So, should I just sit here and wish it in your presence? No, you can talk about it. But the idea is that you were exasperated because no one brought it up. What does that matter whether anyone else did or not? I I just I just feel like we could be accomplishing a lot more within this situation if we talked about it in that in those terms. If it's only important that we do very personal work, that's fine. What you're missing is that if you personally bring up what's important to you, because the group is present, group work will be done simultaneously. You don't have to force it into that scenario. It's automatic. So, just talk about what it is that's important to you. I didn't feel like I was forcing it. I know you didn't, but you are. So, let's just go to what's important to you. I think I'm going to pass. Okay. No. Are you going to continue or no? May I ask for a balancing for the Blue Bell Foundation? Go ahead and ask. They were the pearl of Lagouna Beach. Yes. So, and it's gone now. All right. And so I would like to ask for a balancing act. It's done. Okay. They need funds to rebuild also. Then they will attract it according to their system of beliefs. Well, thank you very much. Um, there was a lady, uh, flower child lady with red hair named Tangerine who was able to get before the camera and beg people for toothpaste and food and say that no matter how wealthy you think the community is, we have 25 families that are going without. All right. And about a week later, she she was holding a press conference and I could not believe the shift in her energy. And why not? She was active. She took action. Well, I said right to my mother right before she said it. My god, has she changed and she's the first thing she said is I am changed. Yes, that's the balancing that's required is that everyone simply in any circumstance that they feel it's necessary to do so that they know that they are powerful enough to take the actions that are required. Therefore, in that context, if everyone does that, then they are taking advantage of the balanced energy. That's all there is to it.

That individual was a perfect example of what's required. Nothing else is required. Make sense? Are you asking me? Yes. Does that make sense? I brought this up on behalf of the group. I know. I know. Okay. But you are seeing within the group. Yeah. I was seeing myself uh in you know 10 years of going through Tanga Canyon what this lady did in one week. Yes. Uh so I it was Yeah. It was a So you are inspired. Yes. I don't lack for inspiration, but I I'm just Did I say you lacked inspiration? Is that what I said? Okay. What the anxiety? I I miss Shaquille. I miss Smokey. I miss You are finally admitting that you are anxious. I am anxious, but I have to believe that this is an opportunity for these cats to find homes at this time or that they'll be taken care of. All right. So, that's fine. It is all right if you feel anxious. At the same time, allow yourself to accept that there is information in your anxiety and in getting in touch with your belief systems as you relate to this scenario. I'm not saying you don't have to have compassion, but as you get in touch with that energy and your belief systems, you can transform your anxiety back into joy and back into knowingness that everything will balance out. You know, I just went through a scene like this last Saturday when I went to traffic school. Yes. The teacher had energy to I had wanted to do a balancing with my animus. This man had energy like I have never seen on the face of the planet. I mean, there were guys that sat there through the break just watching him as he straightened out paperwork because he's so unusual. Oh, right. Um, and I after the lunch break, he brought up Christopher Reeve again and I raised my hand and I told him I would just like to take exception with the way he left that subject previous. Um, he had said that he was talking about, you know, if you get in an accident, who's affected and how much it's going to cost. And he said, "Poor Christopher Reeve, he's broke and Robin Williams is floating his foundation." And basically he said he actually said uh those people are better off dead. So all right when we came back I said um you know I wanted to talk about I said my older brother is a talking head and he went to pieces in front of the classroom and I he had participated in an a spinal cord injury in somebody when he was playing. You do not have to go into details. Fine. But what I said was it's very possible on a soul level that Christopher Reeve is still playing Superman for the most forgotten group of people in this country. Yes. 

So what he I then I went up at the next break and I said, "Look, you know, I didn't mean to make you feel bad." And I said, "I just got the address for the Reeve Foundation and he says, "I want it faxed to me, so I'm going to." But he acted as a catalyst and I've been making phone calls all week to find out. Very good. Congratulations. At this point, I think I can assist in putting together puzzle pieces for a 60-minute segment on spinal cord injury patients. And it's possible that um if you are inspired to do so, then by all means act on it. Okay? And I and your Christopher will eventually fully recover. I knew it. I knew it. And my point is when the cure comes, who's going to pay for it? Okay. And I would also like to ask for balancing for my older brother. He wants to go home no matter what that means. My mother and I are told with it everything that you have asked for from the heart will be given. Thank you. Uh oh and just one last thing. I need a balancing for my heart at this time. U Dr. what I just said gave the balancing. Everything that you ask for from the heart will be given. Okay. I just have to end on this note of excitement. I can't believe the synchronicities that are going on. Well, you better rhinoceros, okay? You know, like with goodwill, get out of the way of my horn. Um, yesterday I met a guy and like he smoked cigarettes and I think he was smoking pot. He was a contractor and you know, I stayed neutral about all that and it turns out I got to talking to him. We both know the story of Chief Chief Joseph of the Neespay Indians and how they almost made it to camp. Oh, they Okay, French. All right. I The Indians say it the other way also. Actually, it is Napier. Napierce. Okay. They decided to leave the country and they almost made it. It's a fantastic story and somebody should do a screenplay on it at some point. But at any rate, he lives in Montana. His dad lives in Montana and they're very good friends with Doug who owns Bart the Bear. Has anybody seen the movie The Bear? Okay. Or Legends of the Fall. Okay. And I've been wanting to contact Doug about my idea for a wildlife refuge. All right. And and so synchronicity has provided a way. I can't believe this. Well, obviously you could. It's so easy. Yes. That's the whole point. That is the only point we've been saying for the last 14 of your years. How Okay. How do I not scare people when I get excited? You will never scare people when you get excited. They will scare themselves, but that's not your responsibility. Okay. When you make it your responsibility, you are no longer in excitement and that scares you. Okay. One last thing. Um I've been offered um there's a dog of a family that I I That is enough. No. Oh, come on. You see, come on. It is enough. And you will understand. why it is enough. It is enough. Okay. You are not being cut off. It is enough. I Okay. I I I This was too personal. Okay. It is not that. It is enough. Okay. Thank you. 

Who's All right. Shout you. you. Then you I was supposed to Yes, I know. Okay. But then you and then you. Hi Bashar. And to you. Good day. I am asking a question. uh for Dana about horses, what's going on in the horse community now. She said there's been an uncommon amount of premature or abortive pregnancies happening, guys. And she said at least three cases that she's involved in the fetuses have been opto autotop autopsy autopsied. I'm all right. And the results have shown nothing. She said, "However, in at least two cases, the breeders know there's something wrong as the placenta looks very grainy and abnormal." She said there's some speculation that it is caused by some type of virus. And she wanted to know what your insight might be on that. There is an invading organism due to a breakdown of the systems, due to the environment. There is in this case due to impurities in the feed the ability for access by organisms that create break down in the body's enzyme structure. There must be countering this effect with herbs specifically geared to that animal that will invigorate the imunological system. That will invigorate the endocrinological system. that will allow also for more invigoration of the thymus in the system so there can be the appropriate production of the substances in the body that are lacking in these cases. It is within an actual certain region. But there is the potential for this to spread without this herbal realignment or without the purification of the environment and the research back into the things that are brought into the animals environment that contact them directly. not only in feed but through their skin. Some of this has to do with toxification of the environment and that they are coming in contact with toxins that leech into the systems and also may be to some degree in the water tables. the weather on your planet at this time in delivering the amounts of rainfall have also delivered toxins into the grounds by having picked them up from other loces that were nowhere near the loc which these animals exist but now have been deposited in the ground water and in the growing plants and may take some time for these to in a sense play themselves out. But by acquiring healthy herbs, healthy grasses from assured sources that are non-contaminated, they can be brought back to a state of health and the system can be regenerated so that the pregnancies will hold. Any uh specific um when you're talking about anything specifically? You must do your research on this. Okay. So, she should do her research on that for preventative measures. Yes. Okay. Those things that will regulate the thymus and will also regulate the endocrine system of the body and bring those areas back to strength and also that which will act directly upon the blood as a purifier. Okay. uh she works with the uh monotomic stones. This will not be appropriate in this case for now. Okay, that's what she wanted to know about that. Uh there is nothing wrong with the utilization and the addition of energy work but the stone work by itself will not be adequate in this case. In actual fact, if you are to approach this from an energy standpoint, in the regulation of the energy flow of the body of the animal, you would actually find that acupuncture would be more efficacious. and in actual fact can actually be very beneficial for the animals. Okay. Um, yeah, she asked uh she said there's another Peruvian mayor uh in full and she's due in May and she wanted to know if you can see if she'll bear a healthy f and is there anything she can do to help her? what you would call an 80% probability it will be fine but it would be wise to make sure that ingestion of substances at this point and from this point forward is clean and pure. Okay. Okay. Thank you for Bashar for Dana on that. And I just um have been getting the feeling that uh you know we're doing the money um workshop next week and I've also gotten a feeling that uh you might want to do a at some other point maybe the month after uh a relationships relationship workshop. No, not the month after. Okay. When no time set now. Oh, just that we will be doing it as eventually there will be a relationship workshop. Okay, fine. All right. Thank you very much. Thank you. And the next Hello, Bashar. And to you, good day. Thank you. Um, in working out my own um survivor issues. Oh, sorry. Uh, survivor regarding sexual abuse when I was two and a half years old, which I've discussed with you already. Yes. Um, as I'm learning more about it and and people are telling me more about it, whatnot, it's it's um been brought to my attention that our daughter who is 7 and a half years old displays a lot of characteristics of someone who would have been sexually abused. And our our feeling is that she had an incident when she was approximately the same age I was about 2 and a half, three years old. Can you of what type? That she was sexually molested. No. No. Okay. What her her behavior is telepathically patterning itself after your energy. Oh yes. Okay. And that energy will work out work out as mine works out. Well, yes. Although she has her own path as well. Okay. In terms of reasons for incorporating that energy to begin with and in many cases in actual fact some of the reason she has incorporated it within her own energy is to actually help you. Yeah, I feel that. In a sense, she is acting to some degree like a siphon. Okay. Um my concern is is her healing process is her healing process then predicated upon my healing process or our connected in that way to some degree. But you do not have to necessarily look at it with that kind of quote unquote responsibility. If you will simply allow yourself to delve forward and delve deeper into this for yourself, you will understand and begin to see the relationship patterns that are going on in terms of what it is that she is also processing along with you. I see. Look at it as one event. She has come along so that you do not have to take the entire thing upon your own shoulders. It is not even that it is really hers to process but she will act in concert and in symphony forming a counterpoint to what it is you are going through. Wow. Oh okay. Do you follow? I follow that. Uh yes. It is not something that will stick within her but it is something that she has the ability to funnel through herself and she will know what to do. Wow. Okay. Um Um Wow. Okay. Um I that's heavy. Thank you very much. It makes perfect sense to me. Um, uh, I I have these numb spells that I've gotten since I'm about 15 years old. They last for about 2 weeks and and, uh, where everything just goes completely numb. I I function by wrote, basically. Yes. And, um, it seems to me that you give yourself an opportunity, as you euphemistically say, but this time I mean it literally, to smell the flowers on your planet. Yeah. Yes. No. Uh, yes, I do. How often? What kind of flowers? What kind of flowers? Jasmine. Yes. Why does that appeal to you so strongly? Um, I don't know. It viscerally It viscerally affects me. Jasmine and citrus viscerally affect me. They bring me joy. They put me in a state of joy. Jasmine and citrus. Yes. All right. Then understand that there is something reflected by these vibrations that will help you in your process and in some senses actually also represent the relationship between you and your daughter. Ah you are citrus. She is jasmine. Wow. Thank you. Do you understand? I understand. Anything else? Nothing else. Thank you very much. Sham the next day and are you good day before the session I showed the channel a picture and I wondered if it would be appropriate to talk at this time about some of the things that are on it. Yes. Okay. Uh it's a b relief of some figures. Um in some senses yes in some senses not literally. Okay. Um, and I sense the energy of some of them. And I wonder if you would amplify and expand upon it. Uh, or in some ways perhaps I'm reading too much into it. In some circumstances, yes, you are in the way that you are literalizing it, but you are not reading too much into it in terms of its energy symbolic representation. Let me put it to you this way. We have discussed the idea and of course this is meant in linear terms. This is being given in linear physical space-time reality terminology. We have discussed the idea that incorporating as a physical person having a body being born on your planet as a physical being in some ways can be looked at as a crystallization of energy. And when you take that form, it is as if you are crystallizing certain patterns of energy that are representative of the moment that the solidification occurs. That in some senses creates a kind of destiny pattern within you that represents the general path you have agreed to experience in this life. Do you follow me? Yes. These rock formations when they solidified, when they were molten, when they solidified were to some degree projecting and representing the life form that would ultimately occupy the planet. Yes. Do you understand what we mean by this? Yes. The idea therefore is that the consciousness of all of you was present when the planet was forming and in some cases projected itself and crystallized itself in some of the forms of the body of the planet itself. Some more or less, some more than others. But what that represents is the idea that in many ways the earth was because of the infusion of your consciousness into the matrix of the very rocks itself was tailor made for you by you for the journey you are having now. And thus your consciousness is etched and frozen in the landscape. And thus the earth is you and you are the earth and you are made of the same consciousness and are one on that level. And these kinds of manifestations reflect and symbolize and mirror the idea that you are one. That you are of the earth in the earth. The earth is of you and in you and you are intertwined and you are one being and yet you are also separate. Do you follow? Yes. That is what this represents. It is actually quite profound. And because it represents energy that way and because it represents the physical likeness of human beings in rock formations, it actually can be used as a reflection very specifically to tap into earth consciousness, to tap into earth knowledge because those areas are specifically formed to represent the human shape and thus they actually represent the idea of the blending of the human and the earth. And so they represent the sharing of the knowledge of the human realm and the earth realm. And when focused on and when meditated upon and when resonated with, you can find yourself very strongly, literally in communion with earth intelligence. Do you understand this? Yes. Does that help you then? Uh yes. Um, I had a couple questions about a couple of the the figures. Because one I sense is like a founder energy. Yes. One is u an Egyptian. They represent many different aspects throughout history of what your culture was, is and will be. And there are many around the world that also do this. It is really history frozen in rock. in you know how to read it, you can understand many of the ideas and patterns that have been are now and actually will be. Uh yes, I I've been sensing that. Yes. Um now the Egyptian type figure um was seems to appear as female perhaps ISIS in some senses but it is not just one gender. Okay, general idea. Okay, there is another section with three figures. One appears u pleadian perhaps a short one might be gray. The other one I have no sensing of what it is. All right. Now again remember these are holographic. This is not the only thing they represent. Different people depending upon their frequency will see and interpret different things. But they generally represent the ability to connect into anything you are connected to everywhere and everyone in human terms as it relates to your entire world. Okay. Yes. Very good. In some senses, they could be called relationship stones, for they depict and reflect and put you in touch with your relationship to your entire people, your entire planet, the entire universe and other people and their worlds. They are in many ways as if they represent the faces of different kinds of communicators or representatives or ambassadors to different levels within nature and different levels within reality. Do you follow me? Yes. Very good. Thank you very much. You and then you. Number two, do you know who you are? Male. Number two, do you know who you are? Yeah. All right. Number one, good day. Hi, Bashar. Good day. Good day. Um I recently I went on a trip to Utah to what's called the Grand Staircase. And um I went for about six days specifically for the purpose of transforming some fears that I've gotten in touch with. All right. Did you have a good time? Yeah. All right. No. Yeah. It was wonderful. In fact, it's hard to be back. Hard to be back because I did get I get in touch with that that vibration that is my true self. Yes. Well, then why did you leave? Well, I still don't have the faith to Are you hearing how I'm asking the question? Okay. Um because why are you not still there in your heart? In your energy? I It comes and goes. Oh, all right. Where does it come? Where does it go? Well, um sometimes the fear that I'm working through Yes. come overrides. Oh, all right. Sometimes you choose the fear rather than the joy. That's all right. Yeah. It doesn't override. Sometimes you choose the fear rather than the joy. You just feel guilty about choosing it. So now you want to choose guilt. Well, that's what I mean. That's why I'm just allowing it to happen as opposed to saying, "Well, okay, I'm choosing it." But there's a reason for choosing it. Yes, there is. Well, because I feel like I got to the depths of it. I'm sure more depths. All right. Very good. Beyond anything I could even comprehend. All right. But not beyond what you are capable of experiencing. And and I I it really amazes me that it's not fully transformed and that it as soon as I came back here. Why should that amaze you? Because you are if nothing the most powerful being in your reality. Therefore, if it is what it is, it is because it is what you want it to be. I I don't know. I You have a suggestion? I just gave you a big hint. Don't choose it. Don't expect it. Is what you want it to be. Find out why you want it to be this way. Then you may have some insight as to how you can want something else. Well, it's always been that way. So, is any of this making sense to you? Um, as far as I mean, I feel like the way that I'm transforming it is the best that I know how. I then that's good enough. You know, I can't imagine. Tomorrow you will have a different way and that way will be the best way you know how. The day after that you will have a different way and that will be the best way you know how. All right. So, is it working? You tell me. Well, I don't know. That's why I'm asking. Why don't you know? That's a good question. Right. On one level, I say yes. Absolutely. On one level, but not on all levels. Well, not in day-to-day experience right now. No, I'm concerned. All right. Concerned about what? That about my ability to transform it. You are concerned that you do not have the ability to allow it to transform. Is that what you're saying? No, I don't believe that. I'm just sick of going through it. If you want to know the truth, that's sick. Oh, all right. You are sick. Thank you. Shall we put you in the hospital? I'm close. I feel close to it sometimes. Oh, all right then. We are there. I am now Dr. Bashar, that's what I need. You are my patient. Yes. All right, then. Be patient. All right. So, I guess that's where the reflection. In other words, don't be so hard on yourself. Yes, I understand you're sick of it. But I'll tell you what, you're not sick enough. Oh, God. So, as a good doctor, I'm going to make sure that you're going to get a lot sicker. Oh, God. Because when you are sick of being sick, you will be well. Well, I sort of thought that was going on, too. It is, but you're not sick enough. Oh. Oh, God. All right. Well, one nice thing though, is that while I'm up there, um I have this experience twice now where I'm watching television and there's someone on the TV and suddenly a flash of energy. I experience it as if it's coming from the TV, but I know it's me. All right. this flash of incredible unconditional welcoming love that is just so you've been watching too much TV. I've been watching too much TV. You know I am joking. I just think that's wild that the second time it happened it was I really feel it as myself. Oh, all right. So I really do. Are you saying you like that channel? Oh. Oh, that's Well, that is my channel. Then that's the channel you need to keep watching. Yeah. Yeah. And that's why I'm doing all this. I want to watch that channel all the time. All right. And and something that happened was here I was in these extremely remote places, huge stone monoliths, surrounded by the rocks, immersed in deep meditative work for days. Nice. Okay. And so I'm the day I'm leaving. I'm driving in my truck and suddenly I see these lights flashing and the the park patrol is pulling me over. Oh. In the middle of my deepest revery, he's or a deep revery. He pulls me over. He starts asking me all these invasive questions such as who I was, where I was, what I was doing. Invasion. I mean, it was just and it was scary. Scary me. Scary park patrol people. Like I can't people like I can't Did they have big fangs and glowing eyes? Actually, he was very nice. It just startled me so much. I see. And you know why? Yes. Do you? Well, I don't know. No. All right, then I'll tell you. Why? What you are working on is understanding that the so-called mundane is just as profound as the spiritual. And when you know that the every day is just as important, then you will never be startled out of your center. And that when you know that being brought down to earth, which is exactly doesn't lower your frequency, oh really, you will not make the separation that in a sense they took you away from the state you thought you wanted to be in. When you incorporate the experience that they represent into everything within you that is spiritual then no matter what they do it will never take you out of that state. That is happening. Thank you. That is happening. And so he gave me a ticket. Yes. Okay. And but he low he reduced the speed on it because I guess he felt I don't know. He reduced the speed to show you symbolically that you chose to lower your frequency. Oh. So then I go deep out into the wilderness and I decided to do a ritual with the 13. All right. And so I I in a circle I put four 13s and then in the center I put um 13 stones. Yes. Yes. And one moment. There is another symbol for the idea of the reduction of the speed. in some ways is actually telling you that you'll get there faster by slowing down. And yeah, I that was because I realized that I was like outside of my boundaries in a way because I actually had crossed over the line and that's what had instigated this. In some ways you paradoxically and this goes for many of you put too much importance on trying to be too spiritual and that actually allows you to not be centered and spiritual. Yeah. I really I learned something from that. I did. I did. Very good. But um it is all a wondrous synchronous spiritual event. But the thing also was that my privacy goes well I had been watching you for a few days and here I felt like I was no one. I mean there was no one there and there was this person that had been watching me out of nowhere. Yeah. So when I went and I did that 13 ritual and like nothing really happened I thought you know I was like oh okay you know nothing happened. All right. Nothing at all happened. So then I get back in my truck, you know, and suddenly I this wave of paranoia came over me. Paranoia. This is like a religious state. And here I'm doing these 13s and this park ranger is watching me. And I don't know who else. And now you think you are your own cult. And now I'm like, so I I I it got so strong that I literally got out of the car and like started shuffling some dirt over the 13s cuz I was afraid it might be interpreted as something evil or All right. I really wondered about that. Oh, all right. You go on wondering. You're not going to tell me about that? There is nothing I can say in the middle of this particular process you are going through. Is that why you're not saying a lot of things? Yes. Okay. You are doing very well. Oh, I need to hear that cuz Well, as your doctor, I will give you that much. I appreciate that. You are doing very well. You're not going to die. All right. I was wondering. Well, and on the subject of death, Yeah. on the subject of death. All right. This dog that I have taken care of partially with someone else for 5 years that I've been No, no, don't go there. No, not now. Not now. Thank you. Okay. All right. Well, thanks for the help. number two. Yeah, thank you. I came from Japan and Good day. Good day. Yeah. Hello. Hello. And uh we tried to uh we used to work for uh Japanese New Age Company but and guys I understand. Yeah. And I we tried to invite you several time but we couldn't sever for several years and please give us a reason. I I mean the we want to know about the reason why you couldn't come to Japan. It has more to do with the channel's choice of schedule. Has nothing to do with me. I allow the channel to run his own life. You see, it is up to the channel to decide where and when he is capable of going based on his schedule and what is important to him. You understand? Yeah. It has nothing to do with the idea that I need to be there or I don't need to be there. Everything happens in perfect timing. I trust that the channel schedule will allow me to come through where I need to be when I need to be there. There's nothing wrong. Yeah. And uh also uh please give us a information uh message for for Japanese for the entire country. Yes. Yes. All right. Thank you. Our information, our suggestion would be for the continuation of the blending of the energy between the individual and the group. The balance that every individual is a part of the group but that every individual is also an individual. Also, at this time, it is important for that area of the planet, for the area you call your home, Japan, to begin to create specific areas in different cities where there is more singing. Do you understand? Yeah, it can be simple. It does not mean the creation of cults and that kind of chanting in that way. But it does mean that it would be of great benefit for your people to sing more openly from their hearts, to feel good about expressing themselves openly in a loving way and to not be afraid that expressing the self in a loving way will cause difficulty. So if you can create more places like in public parks where there can be many individuals or even a few individuals who will come together and pick a song or simply make a beautiful sound all together and do this more and more. This vibration that will be created will be of great importance and very beneficial to the collective consciousness of your country. Do you understand? And also uh I have a information from the uh reader of Akashik record and next year the met will uh fall down near uh Malaysia. Is this um correct or not? Repeat. Uh ne in in next year in summer uh metal one big metal will come metal meteor big stone I see uh will fall down from uh from the uh sky. Yeah. Near Malaysia. Is this correct or not? No. No. No. Thank you. Does that help you? Yeah. Thank you so much. Sure. One moment. However, there will be something seen in the sky. It will be made of metal, but it will not be a meteor. It will be a ship. Do you understand? Yeah. Thank you. Thank you very much. You good evening. Bashar and you good day. Um you seem to make a distinction um sort of a poignant little distinction between believing and knowing. Yes. Can you uh elaborate on that at all? Do you know you're alive or do you just believe it? Uh, I know I'm experiencing. Do you know you're alive? I Yes. Thank you. Do you even have to think about it? No, not really. Do you know you exist if you wish me to be more simplistic about it? Yes. Well, then, okay. Do you know the difference now between knowing and believing? Uh, yeah. I believing is an aspect of the personality structure. It defines the experience you are having as a physical being in terms of the physical reality event you get. Okay. Knowing is just simply being and accepting it. In a way, it's on another level. It is. Knowing comes before and above believing. Um, I get glimpses of this feeling or I should say I get moments of this feeling where I am truly one with all. Yes. But they're so fleeting. And I was wondering if there was any way that you might just sort of elaborate on that ask. Do you mean how to feel that more often? Is that what you're asking or are you asking something else? Well, yeah, to feel that more often. But I know that there's a little connection that I need to make to really stay in that. Yes, there is a connection that you need to make to stay in that awareness, in that knowingness. Is there something you could suggest? Yes. Okay, please do. Oh, well, thank you. What are you experiencing right now? Um, I'm actually feeling quite good. Quite good. Is that the same as the feeling of knowing that you are one with all? Or is it different? No. Um, are you saying no? Are you saying it is different? I'm saying it is different. Then let's keep this simple. Don't go off into a long involved discussion. Keep it simple. That's the first step here. Keep it simple. All right. Don't complicate it. Keep it simple. Now, I just flashed on how easy it is for your mind to emotionally boom into something else instead of staying staying in. What you are giving yourself is a confusion of semantics. You are one with everything right now. Mhm. Even when you're not. Even when I'm not. Yes. Oh, of course. Ah, okay. I It is all right for you to experience not being one with everything. That doesn't mean you're not one with everything. Right. Right. When you know that the experience of not being one with everything doesn't mean you're really not, then it will be all right to have that experience. And it won't actually feel like you're not one with everything except for the purpose of feeling the experience of it. Do you see the distinction? Yeah, I do. It's brilliant. In other words, accept that every experience you have in life is simply a variation of another way to feel that you are one with everything instead of assuming that this feeling has nothing at all to do with the feeling of being one with everything. You see, this is what we meant earlier when we talked about the idea that your people have been taught to define the idea of being spiritual as only being capable of being experienced in one modality. That's the problem you're all having. So, we can be frustrated and still be spiritual. Yes. Cool. Being frustrated is one of the experiences you have in physical reality. And I'm not saying that it has to be that way. But the paradox is that it is less likely to be experienced that way when you allow the experience of being frustrated to not mean that you're not one with everything. Okay? You have to be one with everything in order to have the experience called frustration because if you weren't one with everything, you wouldn't exist. Make sense? Mhm. Does this allow you to expand your concept a bit? Yeah, it does. You know, it's interesting. I think that um I I see so many people around me that are we're we're at a real critical po point in a way. You're at the point that is the point on the tip of the needle. And I feel that it's it could be just because it's coming into such clear focus for us now what our true joy is. Eye of the needle. What our true joy is. And it's it's really uncomfortable even to be the slightest bit uncomfortable. I understand that. However, you know what your true joy is? Um, more specifically, two words. I am close enough. I am being yourself. Just to be. Yes. That's where your true joy is. Just being yourself. And then you find yourself in situations where you don't think you're being yourself, but you're being yourself in that situation. That's the point. When you understand that, when you incorporate that understanding specifically into your being, then then then you will also simultaneously feel that you are one with everything even when you feel that you are not. And that will be when you are at the center of all that is. Now I feel that I'm at the center when I'm unmoved either by something good or bad somewhat. Not necessarily. As we just said, we understand what you mean by that in what you would call pragmatic mechanical terms. Yes. All right. I'm out of balance. I'm out of my center because I am expressing the idea of judgment and I'm feeling negative and all that. Yes, but that is one level of it and one level of it only. And it's a very mechanical description of it. Very physical. On the most fundamental level, you are always at the center. Even when you feel rotten, even when you feel horrible, even when you feel evil, you are always at the center. You know why? Because there isn't anywhere else. There is only one here. There is only one moment. 


Here and now is where you experience everything. You are always at the center because the center is the only place there is. So even when you're feeling evil, you are fully in the center. But you are creating the center to be that experience. And you have labeled being that kind of center as being off center. Mhm. So that you can gain a definition to relate to in physical linear terminology. But you're not actually out of the center because there is no other place to be. It's so challenging for for us as humans. The magic of physical experience is that you have the ability to have what appears to be dichotomy in something that is actually one thing. That's the beauty of physical reality. That's why it exists. So that you can experience polarity in something that is actually one thing. Isn't that creative? Big time. Shows you how powerful you are. Yes. You could actually take one thing and make it seem like it's not. But that doesn't mean it's not. And yet at the same time, it isn't because that's your experience of it. And your experience for you is real. And it's not just an illusion. Your experience is real because that's what reality is. Remember, there is no reality except what you define it to be. But that's what reality is. Still our reality, isn't it? Each and every one of ours. Yes. perception amazing is it not too amazing and and three amazing. I just have a couple more quick questions. Yes. Yes. Um how many times would you say um that uh other civilizations um uh entities have actually uh touched the uh evolutionary process of mankind? 257. Now, how many different species or factions within 17 um is is Mars hollow? No. Are there bases on Mars? Is that one reason why we're not supposed to be there? It is not that you are not supposed to. It is that simply the vibrations you give off do not make it conducive for certain things to be allowed beyond a certain point by those that wish to in a sense safeguard themselves against what would also happen in terms of reactions of the humans on the earth and safeguard the earth from those reactions as well. Is it possible that um human beings as we know it actually began on Mars and populated this planet? But you are the same incarnate spirits so to speak as a consciousness. It has moved. Yes, there are some elements of what used to be Martian life when Mars was habitable that do connect genetically to the human body. Yes. But it is not exactly as cut and dried as saying that humans were begun on Mars because the beings that needed to exist in the Martian environment were not exactly human. But there is some similarity in your genetics and you do contain some of the genes that used to exist in the ancient Martians. Yes, I see. That's why there are so many similarities between like the Sidonia region and yeah, we're very connected. I feel it is very strong but it is not exact. Okay. Um I is the dark side of the moon. There is no dark side. Let's say the the side that we do not see since it doesn't it is inhabited or not by indigenous beings. There are again artificial bases. Okay. Um I there are artificial bases even on the side that does face your planet. Ah and we just have not been privileged to see them. Oh yes, many of you have. It is simply not discussed by those that have seen them. Right? No. NASA people come to your sessions or maybe they do actually. Some of them have. Maybe they do. Um I just want to ask you one more question. Um Linda Waggan uh visited your session a while back. She's an amazingly changed person. There's so much that this has contributed to her growth. Right. Then she has made the changes and we thank you for making them. Are her sons safe? They've been missing for about six weeks. In the overall sense that you mean it. Yes. 

Even though they are in what you would call emotional jeopardy. Are they in the states? Are they out of the country? Are they in a mind control camp? No. All right. They are however enduring duress, physical pain or any some now and then but mostly the idea of psychological emotional and yet it's not being they're not being mind controlled or anything to forget. It is not in your terms too late.