---
heading: Part 1
title: "Beyond Belief"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1998-03-30
icon: Bashar
weight: 230
tags: ['personality']
showdate: true
---




We have many times discussed the structure of the personality and how your personality and the reality you create is basically the result of the personality structure that has 3 facets of:

belief, emotion and action. 

This will let you become familiar with the malleability, the flexibility of your personality and how your personality functions as the filter if you will through which your consciousness is projected in order to create the reflection called physical reality. 

We have discussed how the balance and the specific nature of beliefs, emotions and actions work together in concert as a triad to determine the quality and the nature of the reality that you get that you experience.

We have discussed how critical it is to be in touch with your beliefs, your definitions for they are what create the reflection of reality that you get. But this time today now in this transmission we would like to go beyond and above belief. We have from time to time commented on the idea that what comes before belief, what is above and beyond belief is simply knowing. Knowingness in much the same way that there are certain things that you just know. You don't have to think about it. You don't have to form a belief around it. It is in that sense so automatic, so fundamental that you just know them. You take it for granted. It is a part of your makeup, a part of who you are, a part of your very consciousness, a part of your very core. We would now like to discuss a little bit more than we have before how to use knowingness. Now that you understand the idea or have the ability to understand the idea of belief, we would like to go above and beyond that.

This is basically capable now of being done in that we have laid the foundation. You have a saying on your planet. First there is a mountain, then there is no mountain, then there is. This is an old saying and it simply means that first you see things in a sense as they are and then you begin to realize that things are not as they seem. You deconstruct it. You take it apart. You analyze it. You turn it into details. And soon as you are looking at all the pieces that form the whole as you investigate and analyze these things, then there really isn't a mountain any longer. It becomes a collection of ideas of parts of things. No longer the holistic concept of a mountain. And once you have done that, once you have exhausted all the examination of the details and the beliefs and the definitions that go into making up your perception of the whole mountain, once you have exhausted that, you can let go of all those definitions and come back around full circle to the holistic idea. But now with a difference, now with an appreciation for all that went into the creation of that concept. And now in appreciating it holistically as a mountain again simply seeing the idea for what it is still there is a new underlying difference a new underlying energy in that you now are aware consciously that the mountain is a reflection of your creation coming through you of creation coming through you is a reflection like a mirror but it in no way lessens the appreciation of the holistic picture and you learn balance the idea of the details and the whole idea, the whole picture. You learn to see things holistically and experience them holistically while at the same time appreciating the minute of detail that goes into creating these things within a personality and from within a personality structure.

Knowingness now will be that ability where you can go through life, experience your life in a state where you don't have to think so much about what it is you're wanting to do. You don't have to analyze so much those things you would like to have come about and attract to yourself but can arrive can create that state of being that knowingness state of being that you experience as the sensation well perhaps a variety of sensations but primary among them is that sensation of acceptance that sensation of gratitude that sens sensation of letting go, that sensation of knowing beyond a shadow of a doubt, so you don't even have to think about it, that you are supported, that you are looked out for, that you are unconditionally loved, and that who and what you are created to be is automatically deserving without having to be earned. For if you exist, you deserve it. You have earned it. And it is allowing yourself to divest yourself of the weight that you carry upon your shoulders so that you do not have to second guessess yourself. Constantly watch every step. Constantly be in touch with every little detail. Wondering where your beliefs or your definitions might all of a sudden go astray. Wondering when you might, as you say, slip out of this and slip into that. Trying to catch yourself, trying to watch yourself, which of course, as you know, is very tiring.

The idea of giving you all the information about the structure of your personality. The idea about giving you all the information about getting in touch with your definitions and your beliefs forms a foundation of understanding of what your personality is all about. that the way your reality is, the way your reality manifests is when you take a belief, any given definition, and you know it to be true so fully that you accept it without question, totally open, totally willing. You have surrendered to that truth, the truth that is whatever that truth shall be at that moment. have accepted it so completely that it is second nature to you or really first nature to you. You simply do not assume that anything else is possible. You give yourself no other choice. You do not even consider that there is any other choice to have. This state of knowingness is where you're all basically heading once you go and rise above the idea of belief. Once you start coming from your more true self, your natural self, where you accept yourself fully, accept the gift of life you have been given fully and know that there would not be an existence that you are experiencing were it not for the fact that that experience can reflect itself as the absolute truth, the unconditionally loving truth that you're all discovering yourselves to be and that you can relax into that understanding. You can relax into that assumption. You can relax into that allowance and let your life be a reflection of that energy of that state of that dynamic creative act of simply being. simply being who you are, who you know yourself to be without having to work at it, struggle at it. This does not mean you will not have challenge. But if you allow yourself to simply be who you know you are and stop worrying yourself into a corner, stop attempting to second guess every moment of your life. Stop trying to catch yourself doing this or not doing that. Stop judging yourselves so hard in that sense or judging yourselves at all. When you finally let go and accept who you are, then you will know what you need to do at any given moment. And you will know, you will know that your life will reflect that certainty. And you will see the support. You will see the unconditional love expressed in the reality that you call physical day to day, moment to moment, as long as you choose to be experiencing yourself that way.

Knowingness is a supreme letting go, a supreme acceptance of total self, a supreme validation and valuation of your existence. From that comes knowingness and from knowingness comes all your actions and all the certainty and absolute conviction that your reality will be one of constant fascination, constant creativity, constant love, constant joy, constant creation. It is that simple if you allow it to be that simple. This is not a philosophy. This is a description of consciousness of existence. We thank you for allowing us to share this small facet of the idea of knowingness. We will delve into this concept further in other transmissions. As each and every one of you becomes more and more familiar with what it is to simply know who you are and act as such, then we will have more ground, more experience to bring to play in these dialogues and it will become clear what we mean by that state of being. For now, take it for granted that you know more than you think you know. But the paradox in all of this, of course, is And here is the last tidbit we will share on this subject this day is that the sooner you allow yourself to let it be all right to know that you don't know anything, the sooner you will know everything you need to. That's the paradox and the power therein. Let it be all right to not know. And you will find that you know everything you need at any given moment to know. Thank you for allowing us to share this idea with you this day. And in return for the gift you are giving to us of this sharing, I ask in what way may I be of service to you?

Good day.
Good day. How can you? Good day. Good day, Bashar.

***

**Question 1: Distinguishing Knowingness from Belief (Aging)**

How can you tell the difference between knowing this and a belief that you're really into solid? Say take a belief like when you get older like 70 or 80 you're going to get wrinkles and and all the diseases and so forth. To me that's a belief but for most people in a sense it is.

But to put it simplistically when you operate from knowingness. Now this may seem a little bit flippant and it isn't meant to be such and perhaps we can help explain what we mean by this but yes you are correct in understanding the idea to some degree of aging is an experience that comes through the structure of the personality through the belief system. Yes, when you operate from knowingness you don't care. You don't care. Those things do not concern you. You do not make your consciousness aware of them. You don't care about such things. You allow whatever is to be. The paradox again is that when you do that, you will be less likely to experience the concept you call aging. But when you make it an issue of belief and you make it an issue of I must believe I will not age or I must believe I will be young forever. You are still operating within the system of belief within the personality structure. But when you allow it to come from the domain of knowingness, the paradox is is such thoughts will probably not even occur to you to entertain. And as such, because you don't even entertain them, you will probably not experience aging in the same way that you do. Does that make some sense to you?

Yes, it does.

In a sense, and again, please understand that we mean this in a very specific way. In a sense, a true state of knowingness is very very very very similar to acting like you don't know similar to acting like you don't know anything about anything. In some senses, I know that members of your society might look at such an individual and label them mindless. But when it is a true knowingness, there will be a natural innocence. There will be a very natural intelligence and wisdom with it. It will simply be understood that such things do not need to be focused upon. And it will be understood that the focusing upon such things is what creates them and the experience of them to begin with is what turns them into belief. Is what brings them down from knowingness into a specific belief that must then be dealt with on a detailed level. But when you simply let it go and do not concern yourself with such things, then the knowingness will keep you in whatever state you need to be to experience the life you have chosen to live and you will not be concerned with such concepts as how old am I? How old do I look? Do you follow that idea?

Yes.

This is to some degree a simple way of saying it, but perhaps it will suffice to illustrate the point.

Yes. Yes. I one thing is a little confusing though is how do you tell the difference between I just told you between knowingness I just told you now what you are doing is you are listening with your personality if you want to understand how to listen from knowingness then don't listen with your head listen with your heart listen with your feeling listen with the idea as follows I'll put it to you this way perhaps to benefit the fact that you are to benefit the fact that you are listening partly with your personality. I will phrase it this way so your personality may have the best chance of understanding what is being said. Do you prefer that the idea of paying attention to how old you are be an issue? Yes or no?

Uh no.

Then forget about it. Just forget about it. Don't think about it. Don't make it an issue. What you have said when you answered no when I asked you, do you prefer that this is even an issue? Do you prefer that it even be an issue that you have difficulty telling the difference? When you said no, I prefer that it not be an issue at all. That's your knowingness telling you it doesn't have to be. that you don't have to ponder such questions if you don't want to catch yourself in those kinds of labyrinths which are constructed from the personality from the mindset. So if you don't want it to be an issue don't make it an issue. Don't create the question that then begs the answer. know that it doesn't need to be set up know that it doesn't need to be set up in your mind as a conundrum, as an idea that needs to be investigated or pondered in order to be able to benefit from the knowing state. Does this make sense to you?

Yes, it does.

In some senses, that's why I'm saying true knowingness in some ways actually begins with forgetting everything you think you know from the belief system. Just forget about it. Let yourself find out what you really do know and stop questioning whether you know it or not or whether it's a belief. That's what renders it into a belief by questioning it and seeing it in that light. Does this make some sense to you at all?

Yes, it does.

All right. Is this helping?

Yep.

All right. Thank you. Okay. You and then you number two. Do you know who you are?

***

**Question 2: The Anaku, Healing, UFOs, and Life Changes**

All right. Number one, good day.

Hi Bashar to you. Good day. It's really nice to talk to you again.

Oh, all right. It is always a pleasure for us to talk to all of you. Thank you. Um I wanted to ask you about Well, it wasn't really a dream I had recently. It was more like one of those old parallel reality experiences I used to have. All right. Um there were these beings I had asked sort of unconsciously as I went to sleep for I did a sort of channeling channeling opening and I'd asked for some help with uh balancing my condolini energy. Oh wow. Right. And this amazing thing happened. These beings came and they were I'd say maybe 9 ft tall in a sense.

Yes. In your perception.

Yes. They seemed that way to me. They looked mongaloid. almost mongaloid uh Eskimo like they had um the tops of their heads were flattened slightly.

Yes.

And they took me to this cave which was a sacred cave and it had this pool of water which was perfectly still and it was the most amazing state perfectly still and they meditated there where they existed was just unbelievably cold. Oh why it was because it is perfectly still. Yeah. and and uh and what and he they worked with they'd meditate in the snow constantly. That's all they do is bring in these higher energies. And they said that they came I don't remember exactly what was said but they the name a naku kept coming to me when I woke up and they said they seemed off planet. They said that they were working now they had worked with earth beings before. They were working now more with women than with men. And uh and I heard a a list called. I remember April was there. All right. And I wondered is is that it's such it was such a powerful experience and has stayed with me since. It only happened that one time. Are those beings that you're familiar with at all?

Yes. They are for lack of a better term the higher dimensional selves of the original Anunnaki. Do you understand?

Oh, because I was wondering about the Anunnaki. When I heard that name, it was so clear that it was not it was a naku.

Yes. You know, so it is the higher dimensional counterpart or component of the original Anunnaki beings that were involved at the beginning of your race. Now this aspect is involved in a sense at this juncture of shall we say step up of your species. But on a non-physical level, on an energetic level, on a consciousness level, on a higher dimensional level, they are assisting in the rising of the vibration of the consciousness of your planet, but not as physical beings any longer. Do you follow that?

Right. I do.

All right. Thank you very much. Does that help you?

Uh yes, I have more.

Oh, all right. You have more. Yes, guys. Uh I just wanted to briefly mention uh the few things that are going on with my son and guys see if you had any input. Uh and they are they are we've recently come back from a trip to Chicago for some EEG testing. Yeah. And they want to put him on some very strong medication which I do not want to do. So I'm binging against them on that.

Yes.

I read an article about this healer in Brazil and just reading the article I just decided without any thought whatsoever I absolutely I was going and since then I've really questioned it and I've been in the most unbelievable state of not knowing. All right. You want some assistance?

If that's possible yes it is possible. Attract yourself. You will know what to trust to someone proficient extremely proficient. In fact, what you might call a master in your language of chidong energy. That will help. Do you follow me?

I do. Thank you. That's in lie of Brazil.

Yes. Since you are in question, we have given you something to replace the question with.

Okay. Uh, thank you. And I wanted to ask you, I had seen some videotapes of this man in Mexico that's gotten a lot of publicity who is the gentleman who's part of their 60 Minutes version down there. And the videos that I saw were almost all spheres, which I had never Are you talking about what you call UFO videos?

Yes. Correct. That's all right.

Yes. Are these spheres craft that you're familiar with?

Remember that in what you call your Central American area? Not always. But for the most part, the extradimensional or what you might refer to on your planet as extraterrestrial energy that is returning to that area is what is called the ketaquatal energy. And for the most part, it operates out of what you would perceive as spherical types of craft.

So this would have something to do with because he had said that these initially began appearing during the eclipse there.

Yes. which he had said in the Mayan calendar was part of their it is the return of that energy.

Right. Does that help you?

Yes, it does.

All right. And lastly, yes. Uh my life is a mess.

A mess. A mess. All right. Congratulations.

Thank you. Thank you, Ed. If that's it, I'm doing great.

Yes, you are doing great. You are deconstructing yourself.

I'm deconstructing. God almighty, am I deconstructing? My question is maybe define what you mean by mess. Mess. Yes. Mess. Define what you mean by mess.

My marriage is disintegrating. We're destitute. There. Jonathan is completely He's worse than he's ever been.

I see.

Uh I have no idea one day to the next where I'm going to be living or with whom or how or I don't seem to inhabit my body quite properly anymore. I don't. And so what does all of this circumstance that you have wrapped yourself up in like a cocoon make you want to do?

It makes me want the whole thing just to completely fall apart so I can construct something. I want to deconstruct like crazy.

So then why not let it go? Why not let all of your assumptions go? See, this is my question. Is there something? If this is this entire reality is my creation.

Yes.

Is there something in me that keeps it's like I keep thinking you know I read once about Ilia Priageni was a scientist and he had this theory of dissipative structures and and he was talking about how in any formed system if you inject enough energy into it it becomes increasingly chaotic until it either disintegrates or clicks into a higher order.

Yes, both. Remember it's not this or that. It's this and that. And yes, your reality is your creation and it is also in concert with everyone else. This and that. Right? I understand you humans still like to go one way or the other.

Yeah.

But it's this and that. It's both. Learn how to use the power of both. Okay. I know you like things simple and clean. Oh, it's this or that. One or the other. I can stop thinking about that cuz now it's this. The idea is to learn how to conceptualize both as one event so that you can use both as one event so that you can use the power of the paradox inherent within what appears to be dichotomy. So So what do you want to do? What does this situation make you want to do?

Break out of the cocoon.

Yes. Well, and I don't do it. And why not? I could do that. I could. Why don't you?

I keep saying it. It keeps holding on, but I'm the one that's holding on.

Yes, of course. So, why? So, what do you get out of it? You must be getting something out of it to be holding on to it. You must think you're getting something out of it or you wouldn't hold on to it. Remember, remember, you are all the most highly motivated people there are. You have absolute motivation. Nothing holds you back. Nothing nothing holds you back except you. And it isn't even a holding back. You are simply making a choice. That's all you're doing. You are highly motivated. You have no lack of motivation. As soon as you decide what it is you believe in your definition serves you, that's what you choose. That's what you latch on to. That's what you hold on to. So if you are in your own words holding on to this, then you must believe. You must have a definition that says you're getting some benefit out of doing so. As long as you hold that definition, this is what you will hold on to. When you change that definition, you will then hold on to something else. You're not holding yourself back. You're holding yourself onto what you have defined and deemed to be the thing that serves you more than any other choice. When you change that definition and you have another choice that looks like a more preferable choice, you will be absolutely and instantaneously motivated to lock onto that one instead and then you will move. It's up to you. You understand? Very simple. Very simple. Not complicated at all. Not mysterious at all. No deep subconscious unconscious subterranean musings or mysteries going on at all. You think that what you have is what you want. That's what you've defined it to be. And you are doing this because the comparison you're making to what you have to what you say you want makes what you have seem preferable, seem less painful, seem more desirable than changing, seem less fearful. Yes. So make what you say you want less fearful. Make what you are holding on to more painful. And you'll change instantly. Believe me, you'll be motivated. You find the idea to be understandable.

Yes, I do. Yes, I do.

Now, we will see if it is because your actions will tell, right? You will hold on to it or you won't or you'll hold on to something else. You follow?

Yes.

But again, remember, you are leaving nothing behind really because it's this and that. And whatever it is you go through any of you in a sense you take with you when you change because it is that that is acted as a stepping stone and is incorporated into your ability to go beyond. So it's not like you have to experience a sense of loss if you know that a change must be had must be made. You don't have to add pain to your definition by saying well if I let go then it is this and no longer that remember there you go again this or that. No, when you make a change, it is more than ever this and that, but a higher level of both, a new expression and a new experience of both. That's what you need to understand and that's how you need to see it in order to allow yourself to be motivated to move more effortlessly in your life. Does that make some sense to you?

Yes, it does.

Does this help you?

Yes. Thank you very much. Thank you. Number two.

***

**Question 3: Identity, Shadow Work, Toxins, and Money**

Good evening, Bashar. and good day. How are you doing?

Perfect. And you?

Pretty good.

All right. Um I'm very interested in your uh pep talk tonight.

All right. Thank you.

Um and um I have sensed that I am what I would call on overload. And then I decided no, I'm stretching at the seams. No, I'm going to step out of myself like an old skin. All right. Okay. Um, I can see things falling in into position for money and where I'll be living come summer. All right. And I have sensed this falling away of having to think or stress or um, uh, figure things out and also a sense of I don't have to be a personality.

Well, you will be a personality as long as you're physical, but you don't have to use the personality the way most of you have been trained to use it up to this point.

Yeah, there are some situations where I do use it in a certain way to make people around me happy. Um, but the thing that that the point I wanted to make was my when you you had said a couple years ago that we're going to be passing through this window and we had to decide what we truly truly were and what we're going to take through. And I said to myself, bottom line, I am a farmer. I am a farmer. All right. I feel best when I'm closest to the earth. And what I truly love to do is plant seeds.

All right. Then you are a caretaker of the earth.

Okay. So on spotted bull lane where I have my horse and I work quietly. When I see people in that neighborhood, they burst into the biggest smile when they see me. All right. Without a word spoken.

Yes.

And this this strikes me as so funny.

Well, all right. Then laugh.

It just I I I enjoy it that they recognize me for the best part of myself.

All right. And they are then performing the service by smiling at you of reflecting back to you that best part of yourself so that you can constantly surround yourself with a reminder that that's who you are and who you prefer to be. So very good.

Some of the people that I will be leaving in terms of working seem to want more from me as a personality and I am withdrawing from them somewhat.

If that is your prerogative, so be it.

You know, I I I don't like to make people unhappy, but it it just seems like really they can only choose to be unhappy.

Okay. Unless you are being intentionally malicious about it, but I don't think you are.

No. Um what I wanted to ask you what you said you you were talking about knowingness and I think that a a lot of times humans have to successfully integrate their shadow before they move into that type of centerness.

That's a part of it. Yes. Heal the wound with the emotionally abandoned the emotionally absent father those issues. Take on the sun principle.

Why don't you talk more about Carl Young except that he said there was no such things as flying saucers?

Well, that's not accurate.

Well, I know he did not say there was no such thing as flying sauces.

Well, he said they were purely He said everything else in the imagination was real except for extraterrestrials. He said they didn't exist. What you must understand first of all, of course, is that different people on your planet will have different opinions about different things. Yeah. But the idea is that what he did understand is that our consciousness is intricately linked to the idea of your consciousness. This is true. What he also understood is that everything that you call an archetypal level within your consciousness is also autonomously aware of its own existence. So the idea is that all you really have to do is put two and two together and understand that if any one of you for even a split second thinks about the idea of there being an extraterrestrial that thought in and of itself is actually an autonomous reality even according to Young. It's just that he simply didn't really feel like bothering to go in that direction because he understood the importance of staying grounded with the work so that people did not in a sense go flying off into space with these ideas. He understood it but didn't want to take it there because it really wasn't appropriately the time for your people to begin considering it that way. You follow?

Yeah. I guess he was already dealing with a cult around himself in a sense.

Yes. at that time.

Um something just one other thing beyond the knowingness. Um I have been so stretched for um time and for time in making the changes that um I I've started uh generating energy to get to psych myself into um moving in a particular direction on a particular project. If I if I want to work on uh the nanny book, then I just start walking around and psyching myself into it and talking to my friend about it. And it works methodology.

Well, it works. And the spinner dolphin do this in the Eastern Pacific before they have to make this dangerous swim at night past the sharks. There's some type of energy that they all start emitting.

Yes. Is that like psyching themselves up?

Well, in a sense, it's a little bit different than what you're talking about, but it there are some similarities.

Yes. Well, what are the similarities and the dissimilarities?

The similarities are that they recognize that when they increase their vibratory rate, then their reality shall allow them smooth and effortless passage wherever their intention aims them. The difference is that they don't really think about it. They just do it because they know that they can.

Well, this this energy that I am generating doesn't have to do much with thinking. I don't think it feels much more on a um I'm like I'm moving deeper into the animal experience.

Well, yes, in a sense, but when you use the term psych yourself up, the idea of psychology implies that some thought might be involved. So, we were simply keying off of your terminology.

No, this is not thinking. This is not a thinking process.

All right. You just allow yourself to be revved up then. Is that what you are saying?

I I I become the revving.

Yes. Exactly. Same difference as you say. Okay. All right. One other thing. I'm I'm I'm uh I'm doing work with toxins.

Yes. In what way?

Well, eliminating them. Like eliminating Do you mean from your own body and your own environment? Is that what you mean?

Yes.

All right. Um, this is a good practice for all of you to flush your system and your environment as best as you can of toxins. For instance, I stopped using uh deodorant that has aluminum in it, which seems so obvious. You know, the problem with breast cancer these days and Alzheimer's and many other diseases.

Wonderful. Okay. What about I've heard that that propyline glycol stays in the liver. So, I'm not using a hand cream that has it in it and it's not my hands are dry.

All right. So, there are natural moisturizers you can find.

Well, I you know, I did 20 minutes at Savon and shoot.

Well, perhaps it would be recommended that you try another source.

Okay. And then what about at least for my particular case with a thyroid imbalance, what about um fluoride and chlorinated water? Again, should those those be eliminated?

It would be best if they were and you can aid and assist yourself to some degree with the ingestion of some natural kelp in this area.

Okay. All right. Thanks very much.

Thank you. You good day.

Good day.

***

**Question 4: Music, Memory, and "Doing More With Less"**

Good day.

I have spent the last year one moment. one moment. Proceed. I have spent the last year um not analyzing myself cuz I did get very tired of it. All right. Um and I have spent probably my entire life not knowing what it is that I want to be when I grow up.

Well, I would not say your entire life, but I understand what you mean. There have been moments when you did know and there especially have been moments when you were a child that you knew very well who you were but of course as with most of you you were taught out of that knowledge but there have been moments when you knew it is something that you can remember but do continue

then it would have to be music

all right music it is if you say so well I can't I would like to remember that moment

Why? Make the moment now. Create the moment anytime you want. That's what knowingness is all about. Total existence in the here and now. Create the moment. You don't have to go back into the past and retrieve a memory. Memory is created in the now anyway. When you remember something, in a sense, you're not actually going back there. You're creating that memory from here. So create whatever memory you want and So create whatever memory you want and make it the present reality if that's what you want to do. Does this make any sense to you or is this seem too daunting a task?

I guess so.

All right. Are you releasing emotion?

Yes.

All right. That's very good. It means that you are in that process letting go of things that inhibit you from living in the moment. That's what some of these emotions you have are for. So by all means feel them. Don't push them down. Let it out. And in that sense then you are making music. You are making the music of yourself which is the sweetest music that there is and the first music that there needs to be for you to express any other kind of music. There must be the music of you. For you are the first For you are the first note. Does that make some sense to you?

Yes.

So the more you let go of that which is not your song, the easier it will be for you to express your song in many other ways and many other modalities. Make sense somewhat. But it reminds me that Yeah, I see. I've spent my HH judgment.

There is no such thing as wasted time. Do you understand?

No, I wasn't going there.

All right. Um, where were you going?

My life.

Yes. I have ignored Yes. What? Ignored what? the fact that ignored the fact that I need money to do the things I want to do. Ignored the idea. Well, just played like, well, if I need money, I don't have any, so forget it.

All right. So, you were using that as a way of telling yourself you didn't have to do those things. Is that what you're saying?

No. What? away. What? What? What? Well, I just still can't believe you have to have all this money.

Uh, you don't necessarily have to, but you can.

No, you don't.

You don't have to, but you can. Now, we recently talked very specifically in an entire transmission about the concept of money. We did what you call a money workshop last transmission. One of the most important principles that we shared in that workshop we will share with you now. It really is the most fundamental principle you need when dealing with the idea of attracting money into your life. And this is how it goes. Are you paying attention?

Somewhat.

Somewhat. All right. Well, I'll wait. Are you paying attention now? Do you want to know this principle?

Sure.

Well, then are you paying attention?

Yeah. I was just, you know, I get so emotional that

Well, that's all right. It doesn't mean you can't pay attention and be emotional. So, are you paying attention while you're being emotional?

I'll just pay attention.

Thank you. Thank you. You see, you always have enough attention to pay. You're abundant there. unlimited unlimited attention. Now, here's the principle. You, all of you, goes for all of you were created as you are. And as you are, you have sufficient ability to do or at least begin to do anything you want. When you allow your imagination to come into play, you will find that this is true. And you are nowhere near as limited as you may think. But the point is is that when you start out, if you are just yourself in the middle of nowhere with nothing, the idea to understand is this. When you learn how to do more with less. When you learn how to do more with less, you will be able to do less and get more.

All right. All right. All right. Thank you. We'll give an example.

I think of the internet right away.

Well, all right. You can get to a lot of people.

Yes. All over the world.

Yes. With less capital.

Yes.

So, in a sense, this is perhaps one example. The idea is that the individuals who began that idea started out very basic with not very much. They learned how to do a lot with very little. And once they learned how to do a lot with very little, with whatever they had, and made it go far, made it stretch, milked it for everything that imagination could pull out of it. When they used all that they could out of what they had and made it go very far, then it amplified itself. It magnified itself. It took off into something that then made it necessary to do very little to be able to do and accomplish quite a lot. Does that work as an example for you?

Yeah. Oh, more more examples.

Oh, just one more.

All right. All right. All right. Well, we'll go back to the example that we used in the workshop. Let us say you are an artist. All right. Now, you know that to be an artist, contrary to what many of you are taught, you don't have to have fancy pencils and pens and paints, you can take a stick, you can burn the end, and you can draw on a wall with the charcoal that results from the burning. And as we said in the workshop, many of you now know that these so-called primitive cave paintings that were accomplished in exactly that way are very sophisticated forms and expressions of art and in fact are highly prized even in your modern artistic society as being very sophisticated expressions of art. The idea therefore is is that if you were an artist and all you had was a stick and you sat around thinking that you needed more in order to be an artist, you would be stuck. But if you didn't let that get in your way and you said, "Well, I can be an artist with a stick and you burnt the end and painted a picture or you took more sticks and tied them together and made sculptures or whatever came to your imagination. If you did that and did everything you could with what you had, then someone comes along, recognizes the genius in your art and perhaps works with you or brings you some other means or methodology to expand your art. Then bit by bit you will find that you will be able to attract other people and other aspects of your reality to magnify and amplify what you have already done and give you the opportunity to do less and get more. In other words, once you become in your own mind and in everyone else's mind an accomplished artist, do you not find that the greatest artists must do perhaps nothing more than sketch a few lines to have that painting be highly valued? because it is the fullness of the expression that goes into such simpleness in such a genius way that actually still captures all of the artistic essence that may have been in an earlier but perhaps more complicated paintings. And so the greatest value many times is actually placed on some of the simplest art forms because it took the absolute expression of artisticness to create that ultraimplified form in just exactly the right way that it expresses what allows other people to feel what the artist felt. So you can accomplish more with less. Once you learn how how to do more with the less you already have isn't one part of that being in love and caught up with well of course for example the guy painting on the table with the stick is he not involved yes of course this this part of himself with the animal that is key in all of this process and it is simply key that you are in love with the expression itself self no matter what it represents.

Yes, of course, that in a sense goes without saying, but it's already been said, so that's all right.

But yes, the idea is is that once you understand that your love, your passion, your energy gives you automatically the ability to take whatever it is you have at hand and use it to do more than you may have been taught to think you can do with it. You will then find that it will turn around and you will not need to do as much to attract and accomplish a lot including money. That's the principle. When you learn to do more with less, you will need to do less to get more. That's the principle. Plain and simple. It can't be said any more simply. Does this make some sense to you?

Yeah. Especially the simpleness cuz I I require that things be simple.

Well, you see, creation knew what it was doing. And by simply creating you, if you were out in the middle of nowhere with nothing, it knew that it had to be simple because that's all it gave you. That tells you it's simple because you weren't given anything else.

I'd still like to know what I want to be when I grow up.

That's up to you. because that's everyone's gift to decide what that is or to know what that is and to feel it and express it. And on the other hand, in some ways, I hope you never grow up. In some ways, allowing yourself to be that child is the most grown-up thing you can do. And you know that that makes sense.

Yes. Yeah. But being a child as a grown-up is very tiring.

All right? Then be a grown-up as a child. If it is tiring for you because you are resisting old ideas, then let them go and just pay attention to the knowingness that is inherent in the principle we just gave you of simplicity.

Well, I feel like I'm resisting new ideas. You have to do this. You have to do that. You have to go to school. You have to Yes. Well, be somebody. Have to have to have to.

You are somebody. You are somebody. You are somebody.

And I believe that.

Do you?

Sure. Sure.

But do you know it? That's the point of tonight's discussion. Believe it.

All right.

But do you know it? Which means you don't have to think about it. You just are.

I think maybe I know. I know it, but I don't believe it.

Maybe you do believe it, but maybe you don't know it. Which is it? Which do you want it to be? Which do you prefer?

It was to know it.

Well, then let that be true and act accordingly in simplicity, in passion, in vision, in creativity. Let yourself express it in whatever modality you say is your modality. If it be music, so be it. If it be something else, so be it. But let it be. And let yourself understand and absorb that principle of learning to do more with less so that you can do less to get more. That's how it works. That's how it works. Your imagination is key. Your willingness to play is key.

Okay. All right. Yeah. I have was just one more question about my little black cat.

Little black cat. Yeah. All right. Her little black cat. What about your little black cat?

Well, I'm going to have to leave her behind.

Leave her behind.

Yeah. She lives in Georgia and I'm not going to be living there. So, and and you cannot bring the cat with you because she belongs to then it's not your cat.

But she's my cat.

It's not your cat. You just said she belongs to someone else. It's not your cat monetarily.

So, yes. Okay.

Okay. Keep it simple. That's it. Keep it simple. Okay. If she is meant to be with you, she will be with you. If she is not, she won't. Okay? You understand?

Sure.

That doesn't mean you have lost her, left her behind. You need to be who you are. Only by being who you are will you thus then attract into your life all the things that actually need to be there to reflect who you are. If she isn't there, she doesn't need to be. Right? If she needs to be, nothing will stop her from being there. But you'll never know that until you are who you are. And when you are who you are, it will be all right whatever happens because you will know that whatever happens is a reflection of who you are and that's who you want to be. Make sense?

Sure. May sound callous to some of you, may sound cold. It's not. It's the height of compassion. It's the height of allowance. It's the height of acceptance of unconditional love. Because unconditional love doesn't have conditions on it. That's why it's called unconditional love. What a surprise. Make sense?

Yeah.

Does that help you?

Sure.

Then our unconditional love to you. Thank you for you. Then you number two. Do you know who you are?

All right. You can be number three. Do you know who you are?

Oh, all right. Number one.

***

**Question 5: Scent, The Pillar, and The Finger**

Good day.

Good day, Mr. B.

I I have three questions.

Three questions? I I suppose I am now the genie of the lamp.

You could be anything you want.

Rub away. The the first one's about scent and going to the brain. And scent. Yes. You mentioned it on a t The allactory nerve is one of the most direct extensions of the brain into your outer physical world.

Yes.

What about when you have a cold?

What about it?

Sometimes you can't taste or smell. Do those things still go to your brain?

Yes, because different nerves are stimulated when you're talking about the idea of aroma therapy. Now sometimes some of them can be inhibited by co-actors but generally speaking you will also find that if you are talking about the idea of rubbing those essential oils in or letting the scent go to the brain rubbing them into your skin around that area over your sinuses will do just as well because they will be absorbed and go directly into the nervous system. You follow you can bypass the idea that your nose is blocked.

Thank you.

Number two, the idea um in a lot of different um places I hear where you uh make a pillar through yourself to the stars to the earth.

Yes.

What's the idea about the column or the pillar?

The idea is that it anchors you in a sense. It creates you to be an immovable object so that you understand that as you reach out and as you reach down that you are drawing from the highest heights and the deepest depths and also that you are in that sense immutable that you are eternal that you are unmovable in your intention and your focus. Do you follow that?

Well, I'm just curious about why it has is this question number three?

No, this is part of the same thing.

I see. So, this is 2B or not. I didn't find my joke for you.

Thank you for reminding me. Um, like the idea of horizontal or directions at all.

Yes, I guess that's because we're physical that we need that kind of you create the idea of the matrix and simply then what you're doing is honoring the creation you have made. Yes, on a fundamental level it's arbitrary. But if you have created the idea of direction and time and space, you can still honor it and still get benefit from the creation you have made. But yes, that doesn't mean it's not your creation. Okay? It's similar to the idea of building a machine. The machine at one time perhaps didn't exist in your society, but now that it does, that doesn't mean you can't use it just because you created it. doesn't mean it can't give you some benefit even though you know you wouldn't necessarily have to use it to accomplish the same thing. You might be able to do it some other way but so what? There's the machine. Go ahead and use it if it works for you. If it doesn't, create something that does. Does that help?

Very good.

And number three, the third thing is about my finger, which you've said no several times and it's not such a big idea about my finger. I was maybe going to address this toma if you're we're so resistant, but I toma if you're we're so resistant, but I know there's reasons for everything.

Yes, I resist nothing. I only simply fall into line with what is appropriate at any given moment as I sense it.

Well, I looked the idea of the the that ring finger and I looked up the idea of um unions and grief.

Yes.

And so I go, well, okay, there's still things I'm going to be, you know, that I'm dealing with obviously. and then and probably for quite some time the idea of the third chakra, the yellow.

Yes.

Is there is there anything that you could give to assist me in um stirring it up?

Yes. Allow yourself to eat more combinations of green and yellow vegetable and you will bring the yellow vibration up into the green of the heart and that will help you learn to assimilate the things that come up as a result of raising your vibration that way.

I do eat a lot of yellow ones.

Do you eat a lot of green ones?

I could eat more green ones.

All right. with the focus of what we're talking about as your intention when you do it like a ritual. Make it a sacred act. When you eat the yellow and the green vegetables together, make it an intentionally sacred act so that you are using the vibration of that act for that purpose. Similar to the idea of using the pillar for that purpose. It's not just a matter of eating the vegetables and then saying la dah now what it's a matter of doing it with intention like a prayer. Do you understand?

Yeah. It's the kind of magic that I love to work with.

Yes. Well, work with yellow and green magic in combination to raise the vibration.

All right. Yeah. I was sharing. Yes. I make more with less. Obviously people know what I'm up to. I love to make things out of nothing.

Yes. You're not a very good example of that idea.

One of the fun things I've been doing is cutting up the joke mail, which is like a burpee seed catalog. Has beautiful pictures and I glue them on things and play around them and you transform them. I make art out of them.

Yep. All right. Well, thank you for your creativity in that area.

Number two. Love you.

I love to you as well.

***

**Question 6: Multiple Personalities**

Good evening, Rashard. Have a good day.

Good evening, Rashard. Have a good day. Uh, I have a question. You were talking about people with single multi as opposed to multiple personalities. How did the multiples um get creative and um transmute themselves back into one person in your life?

First of all, you all have multiple personalities. You all do. The idea is that when the consciousness just to speak linearly for a moment, this is a convention, but at least it will do to illustrate the point. All right. Okay. All right. Speaking linearly, when you become physical as a consciousness, when you take on personality structure to express yourself and experience yourself and function as a physical persona, you actually are already a multitude of personalities because your consciousness is multi-dimensional. It has multi-dimensional aspects. And when it first, shall we say, freezes itself or crystallizes itself into physicality, you are actually a collection of multiple personalities because you haven't yet learned to differentiate how to express yourself coherently in physical reality. The idea is that multiple personalities have never learned cooperation between the personalities. That's the difference. It isn't actually that you fuse them into one. It's that you have an ongoing system of communication and cooperation between and among all the personality fragments that you are, all the multi-dimensional levels that your consciousness is so that you can have the overriding intention to function coherently relative to the mass consensus agreed upon plan or game for the general reality you have agreed to experience. Those that experience still the idea of multiple personalities simply have not learned that cohesiveness. But this doesn't necessarily mean that that is a negative thing. Sometimes people choose that for the experience they want to have in life. But the idea is that multiple But the idea is that multiple personalities are not formed so much as they simply are allowed to continue by certain things that may happen in any given life that prevent the cooperative and collective mechanisms of communication from occurring. Does that make some sense to you?

Yes, that does.

Does this help you? Is this sufficient? Or is there some other avenue you wanted to go down about this?

I wanted to get out about how to bring about more cooperation between my multiplicity.

Oh, all right. Well, first of all, understand that you can use the multiplicity to an advantage. You don't have to look at multiplicity as a disadvantage. So, it would be wise to abandon that particular definition as a starting point. Does that help?

First of all, um, I've already gone past that.

Oh, all right. Well, thank you. The idea therefore is to understand in what way now do you feel you need to change what you are experiencing. Can you be more specific about how it is you feel you need to allow the multiplicity to become more cohesive if that's what you actually are saying?

Well, I'd like to be able to get more done with less. More done with less with less personalities.

Well, all right. But why with less personalities? Do you feel that the multiple personalities prevent you from doing things or simply take too much time?

It seems to waste time for me. Seems to waste time.

All right. Relative to what though? Relative. How are you making that assessment?

Well, the what is it you think that needs to be done so that you are saying that you're not accomplishing it?

Well, I have to switch personalities to be able to do certain things, and I would like to be able to blend them together so that it wouldn't there wouldn't be the back and forth.

I see. May I let you in on a little secret?

Go ahead.

You all switch personalities all the time in order to get things done. The you you are here cannot do the things that the you here can do. The idea is simply is that you have been given a definition. You have been given a definition that makes you more aware that makes you more aware of the parallelism going on within you than most people are aware of. But the idea is that the only thing that's different between what you consider yourself to be and what any other general person on your planet considers themselves to be is that they are not as aware of the parallelism going on when they make a switch. They still think they are the same They still think they are the same person. They have been given this concept called continuity of personality. It's an illusion. It's an illusion. And in fact, more of them nowadays are actually becoming more aware of their parallelism. Now, yes, I understand that an extreme focus on parallelism can in some senses be debilitating, but the idea in and of itself of just being aware of your parallel personalities isn't in and of itself debilitating and isn't in and of itself a waste of time because you are always a different person at any given moment because any change is a total change, a complete change. There is no such thing as a single personality that has changes going on within it. There are from moment to moment actually discrete and distinct different personalities accomplishing different things that individuals in general on your planet think is the same person. That's the only difference. They have this illusion of continuity that they are lumping all these parallel personalities in. So that they don't consider themselves to actually be different personalities when in fact that's exactly what they have to be in order to be able to do anything different than they did the moment before. Is this making some sense so far?

Yes, it is.

So our suggestion first and foremost would be to relax the idea that you absolutely must function exactly as they do because surprisingly enough you're going to find that many other people are actually going to be heading in your direction. The idea is to balance it out by first understanding that that is the way things get done because reality is discontinuous. Every moment is its own reality, its own total complete reality. So not only are you dealing with the idea of multiple personalities, you're dealing with multiple realities. Moment to moment, you have parallel realities going on simultaneously. And every personality you shift to literally inhabits another reality all together. Make sense?

Yes.

The idea is to use your creative imagination, any personality's creative imagination, to figure out how you want to work with that based on what it is at any given moment you actually really want to do. and creatively use the assets of the different personalities and their attributes to get done whatever it is you believe benefits the whole being that you are while at the same time validates each and every single aspect and every personality that you also simultaneously are as a multi-dimensional being. When you start to think that way, when it's all right to equally validate all the personalities, you will sense that cooperation will be there when it needs to be there. You won't have to work at it. It will just happen because you'll understand that you are approaching this both simultaneously, holistically and as a multitude of individuals, which you are simultaneously. Remember, it's this and that, not this or that.

Thank you very much. Is this helping?

Yes. You've clarified something that I've been I had an understanding of but I you know the feedback that I'm getting from every from all the other multiple personalities. Yeah. They're they're giving me the feedback that I shouldn't be the way that I am and I'm saying that I should be the way I am at any given moment the way you are is the way you need to be. The paradox in the situation is is that as soon as you allow the way you are to be absolutely totally all right, you become different because you allow yourself to fully be fully be whatever you are and that means you fully use it and that means you've done with it and you go on to being something else.

Thank you again. Make sense?

Thank you very much. Thank you and sweet dreams to you.

***

**Question 7: Stones, Pearls, and Communication**

Number three. Hi Bashar. How is your good day? Listen, I want to thank you. One moment. Yes. By the way, if you really got to know me and any member of my civilization, well, we would make what you're calling multiple personalities seem like the most cohesive of stagnant individuals. Do you understand?

Definitely.

All right. I you know I prefer the multiplicity but you can learn to use have a hard time with I know but you can learn to use the multiplicity in the same way that we do and don't worry about it all right you are a creative individual expression of all that is and at the same time you are all that is remember not only are you a part of the whole you are the whole expressing itself as a part so yes continue.

Uh I wanted to thank you so much for that um money workshop.

Well, we thank you for the part that you played as well.

Oh, thank you. Uh I made a great shift with uh All right. with that. Thank you. I want to um I want to talk about my uh stones, an aspect of the brownstone. Talk about your stones.

Yeah. Okay. In a specific way.

Yes. How so?

um going to so it's such exciting things happening and uh a friend of mine we're going to combine the small uh heart that I had made with pearls nice and um when I had the brown stone when I I sent it uh to the Philippines on the airplane it disintegrated when it got there and you told me at the time that was cuz it was a very special matrix matrix.

Yes.

Um I need to I want to have more made. Can you tell me about the matrix? What was special about that and why it disintegrated?

You must understand that when you are dealing in certain rarified frequencies when you shift their domain, it may not tolerate that shift. The frequency may adjust in such a way that it disintegrates itself in order to be able to pass from one frequency to another. It may not in that sense survive the frequency change. Some things when they are created are created in a certain frequency domain in a certain place a certain time a certain matrix when you take them out of that matrix they do not survive.

So the brown one even though all the others survive the brown one it has its own special matrix. So of the frequency at the 35,000 ft it just disintegrated and it always will.

Not always. You will learn how to refine it. But you are giving yourself an opportunity to understand something here about the idea of frequency shift and how it affects your reality and how to allow yourself to accommodate a broader bandwidth within the idea of your creation so that it is not so specifically focused that it can only survive in rarified air so to speak. Am I um contributing to that?

Well, of course, it's your reality and your creation. This is a feedback lesson for you how to fine-tune your bandwidth. Broaden it and fine-tune it simultaneously with the stone.

Yes, this stone is teaching you that teaching you how to make adjustments so that it will be at one in the same time more highly specifically focused in a certain way and yet at the same time be capable of existing in a multitude of frequency realities. This is the next step of your balance. Anything else?

Well, I want to get some cut and it sounds like until I do my work, I'm not going to be able to be able to put them on an airplane.

Well, that's more comp. They will just disintegrate more slowly.

Oh, really?

Yes.

Oh, they would? Huh?

Yes.

Uh what about then?

It is mostly a type of glass matrix.

Okay. Now I also when I had them cut Yes. I had a few of them out of that that Yes. when somebody wears them Yes. on an airplane. Yes. Now I got the feeling and I think April, didn't you wear one over to Didn't you wear yours over to uh Hawaii? Your brownstone.

Okay. No, it didn't.

And and why not?

Because it's formed. Because it was in contact with the intention and the consciousness of a person specifically, which tells you something about the kind of focus it requires in order to remain cohesive through different reality domains. Left on its own, it doesn't have that. It's not supported. It carry it personally.

Yes.

So when I had it uh cut and shaped into the heart with that intention.

Yes.

It still then would need to be it still comes from the person.

Yes. Each person.

Yes. So therefore if one person it could shatter and another person it wouldn't likely.

It's possible, but it's less likely that it would disintegrate if it was with a person at all. The idea is that it is a adaptive matrix. If you simply leave it neutral, it has nothing to relate to. Just as when you find yourselves feeling like you are not in relation to something, you disintegrate.

Oh, so when it was the big whole piece, it had no relationship and it disintegrated. And when I formed it into the heart, that makes it more specific. But even then, when you in a sense give it a relationship with a person, when it actually forms a relationship of love, the love is what makes it cohesive.

Oh.

So then what we're going to do with it, which is the blending um with the the pearls, but the the whole idea is for this to be will be the necklace for in honor of women.

All right.

and uh be working with a a lot of women uh with the consciousness awareness of cancer and all right then you are dealing primarily with the issue of self-love, lack of selfworth and the idea of self-d disintegration.

Yes.

And working with the emotions which Yes. And working with the emotions which of this is the emotional stone.

Yes.

Then it is a transmutational reflection for that. It's not doing anything for anyone but it's a transmutational reflection of that.

All right. Now with that idea in mind which or in heart in heart yes thank you with that idea coming from the heart. Yes that we are going to take a a 10piece uh piece of stone uh glass stone and have it shaped into all of the hearts. Then with that uh intention and love and everything in mind, then um it sounds like it would you'd be able to put it on the airplane.

Perhaps perhaps not. Again, you may find there may be some disintegration if there is not actually a personal relationship supporting the idea.

Somebody have to go over there with it to support it.

Oh, what a shame. I'd have to go along with it.

Maybe you, maybe someone else.

Maybe someone else.

Well, the idea is that you need to form a relationship with yourself and the heart represents that. And whoever carries it will represent the idea of being in the process of forming a stronger relationship of love with themselves.

So I need to it's it's showing me to to have a stronger relationship with myself and anyone who comes in contact with that symbol.

With that symbol.

Yes. Okay. That's why there's such excitement here. Uh and and with this the heart and the pearl and for this uh for this purpose.

Yes. Okay. Uh pearls.

Yes. More the symbol to some degree of the mind. Pearl is a symbol of the mind. It is a blending but more to some degree as you yourself say pearls of wisdom. Yes. The idea is that it is more akin to the bridge between the mind and knowingness. Uhhuh. And therefore it helps to balance and blend the idea from the knowingness down through the mind and to the heart. It forms a good link a good bridge in that sense. So this is a a good combination here. This good blending.

Yes. And it was the blending also coming from Stella and with the hearts and and with writing the book and uh the heart forming from me. So that's a good marriage there.

All right. Of that. All right. Um does that help you then?

Yeah. Oh, very much so. One other thing one other thing with knowingness that sounds to me like uh when I'm in knowing is that when I'm in the Dao way that's the knowingness.

Yes.

What's beyond knowingness?

Being.

Being. Okay. Great. Thanks. Thank you. Charming. What? You then you number two. Do you know who you are?

Number two, female. I Yes. Number one, good day.

***

**Question 8: Crafts, Acting, and Imagination**

Good day. [Music] I asked you some questions the last time we spoke regarding I was seeing a number of um crafts and guys, you gave me advice and how to uh raise my vibration.

Yes. to Well, I' I've been doing what you asked me to do.

Well, I didn't ask you. I made a suggestion.

Excuse me. I've been doing what you suggested that I do and uh it seems to be effective.

All right. Thank you.

For some time, for a while afterward, I didn't see anything and then I saw some again and then then none again.

All right.

So, am I uh not doing something correctly?

Oh my. Is that your first thought?

Well, no. Well, my first No, it really isn't my first thought.

All right. What is your first thought?

Am I Am I the the reason? I mean, am I Am I Am I the the reason? I mean, am I the one that's causing this?

Do you mean the fluctuation in appearances?

No. Bringing Bringing them about period. Are you causing it?

Cause is not the right word. Am I the You are part of the event.

Part of the event. That I understand. But am I bringing it on myself?

Well, yes and no. Okay. There is an Well, yes and no. Okay. There is an agenda that is larger than just you. Of course, you are also in the agenda and have your part within it, which is well, I'm not going to be able to tell you that in 25 words or less.

I understand that. What can you tell me?

What I can tell you is that we must continue in order for you to have more experience, in order for you to find yourself being more secure about what it is that is going on. Okay? So that you can learn to come from a place of power and be able to discuss it.

Okay, that's what I'm sorry. I didn't know why. I was done. Okay. That's one of the things that that bothers me is what each day is I feel a that there is a much larger picture.

Yes.

that I am probably a part of that I am a part of that.

Yes.

Well, there always will be. There always will be. That will never end.

Okay. I understand. Even beyond your life.

Exactly.

Um but but I feel a lack of I think Oh, okay. There's more people in there in that room. Um excuse the interruption, Bashar.

There is no interruption.

Okay. I I'm just talking about exploring. Okay, Har, I'm just feeling at times a tremendous lack of communication, but this feels like a process to me.

That's what you just said. It is.

You just clarified that. Is there something that I can do?

You can learn to be more of yourself.

Okay. All right. and to and I just feel a an incredibly strong sense of needing to communicate with someone of a higher consciousness level like yourself or like your own higher self.

Okay.

Or my own higher self uh on a more regular basis. I go right ahead.

Okay.

But it it's it's difficult for me to meditate and I I didn't say you had to meditate.

I understand that. But that's that's a a common way that it is not difficult for you, however, to use your imagination.

No, no, that's extremely easy for me.

That's all it takes to communicate with your higher self.

Really?

Really? I wouldn't lie to you.

No, I And I didn't mean to imply that you would.

You didn't imply. I inferred.

Okay. Okay. So, could you direct me a little more on how I can direct perhaps my my imagination to to better accommodate an actor in search of a director? A shot. Yes. You know what I mean?

Yes, I do.

Do you know what I mean?

No.

You are an actor in search of a director.

Okay. I am. That's true.

You're an actor.

Yes. Yes.

Well, act. Become. Use your imagination. Be that person you say you want to be. Try her on for size. See how she feels. Okay. Direct yourself.

Okay. Good idea. You follow?

Yes.

Well, then then I shall proceed.

All right. Um then roll camera.

I'd love to.

Okay. Um, so when I'm feeling these um moments of not really anxiety, but just go ahead and say it. It's an intensity of wanting to communicate about what I'm seeing.

Open yourself to communication and use your imagination to know that you are opening yourself up in whatever way is appropriate at the moment. And know that whatever way it is that you do open yourself up, even if you may not be completely intellectually aware of exactly what's going on on all levels, it will be the appropriate way for you to receive and glean information as you need to apply it into your life. And it will take you to the next step.

Okay. Um All right. This is knowingness and how to use it. Okay. Um you don't necessarily always have to have intellectual details.

Thank you. And I know that I I try to do that. That's uh a big part of my All right. being okay. But if you do that when you're acting, it sucks.

You will not be well.

All right. I wasn't going to use that terminology. I was going to say it won't be convincing. But if you want to say it sucks.

Well, all right. Sorry, Bashar. I liked your answer better.

No, it's all right. I think yours was more, how do you say, piffy?

Yes. Piffy. Piffy. I need to say this to you, Bashar.

All right.

if you need unrelated to what we just discussed, but at times also I feel an incredible overwhelming feeling of love and um connectedness to yourself and your civilization. And I'm wondering and I and I I believe that that's an accurate feeling.

It is an accurate feeling. Leave it at that.

Okay. Okay. Um, also when you talk sometimes I can hear sounds that sounds like a room of people at a distance very muffled.

Yes.

And then it ceases.

Yes.

What is that?

Sometimes it is different things. Okay. Sometimes it is that our vibration is allowing you to peek into the idea of our telepathic connection with many other individuals on our planet and in other dimensions of reality as well. Okay. Sometimes you are tapping into your own parallel substreams of alternate personalities or alternate reality structures. Sometimes you are having conversations within yourself simultaneously that you only just become aware of once you tap into our vibration. It can be many different things. Again, you don't necessarily always have to worry about exactly what the details are as long as you can understand that there are ways for you to use that experience to your benefit according to how your imagination wishes to apply it.

All right, Bashar. Um [Music] um you had mentioned that when I asked you previously the um some of the crafts that had had followed me also. I I just had another thought about that. Sometimes I see what I think is a zodcraftraft and other times I see what I think is a Sissani craft and sometimes in the same evening. Am I mistaken?

You are not mistaken. But you are projecting sometimes.

What what do you mean by that exactly please?

What I mean is simply that you are so close to the surface when you create your reality that many times you will not understand that you are creating a reality and shifting yourself from one reality to another. You will instead think that reality is happening to you but you will not understand that you yourself are actually shifting yourself around. Okay. You are a strong reality creator, but your denial of this allows you to believe that it is happening outside you and happening to you. So that it forces you to have to ask, am I perceiving this correctly? Am I mistaken? What you're doing is you're taking yourself into different perceptual modes. And each perceptual mode carries with it a different reality. They're all real, but they may not always be immediately applicable. But the point really is is not whether they immediately apply to your physical reality experience, but whether you understand that what you're doing is running up and down your own channels and switching from program to program, creating different realities as you go.

Okay. when I when I initially asked you the first question, you were saying that that the process needed to continue so to speak in the way that it is uh to so that I would uh become more aware and uh become start coming more from a position of power. I'm going to ask you a question.

Okay. If I may, please.

Is acting your passion?

Yes. And writing.

All right. Are you doing both?

No.

Why not?

Um, don't give me excuses.

That's But I have so many.

Yes. Well, that's good. All right. Shows you how creative you are. I have such an abundance of excuses.

Yes, I know you are creative that way. But don't you see that that is the very act of the craft you want to practice itself? All you Yes, that that is the very act of the craft you want to practice itself. All you have to do is in a sense turn it outward instead of turning it inward.

Bisher, I'd like to honestly answer your question. Honestly, no. Haha. Um I've made many attempts to do exact to do that because that I would love to do that on a regular basis and what I each as you know each process has its own involvement in that type of thing.

There's your problem and I'm going to call it a problem just because so many of you choose that term. Okay, there's your problem. Wanting to do it on a regular basis.

I've worded it wrong.

No, you haven't. You worded it exactly, revealingly correctly. The difficulty is is that if this is truly your passion, stop worrying about doing it on a regular basis and just be passionate about doing it once. Okay? Because when you're passionate about doing it once and once only, then you're passionate about doing it now in the now, not concerned about whether it ever happens again because there is no again. Okay? There is no again. This is where temporal reality trips all of you up. You think in terms of I'm doing it now and I have to do it again in order to be happy. In order to be considered doing it regularly, in order to be considered doing it at all for real, I have to do it now and again and again and again. You're right. All you have to do is do it once and within that once will come all of the variations of the single one moment that exists which is the only moment that exists and that's now. Okay. So be passionate about just doing it and being it once and that passion will attract all the other opportunities to allow this single now one moment to become every other possible expression and opportunity it is. And that will in some loose way be interpreted by your linear mind as again and again and again. But it won't really be again and again. It will just be the same one now passionate experience but from a different point of view and a different point of view and a different point of view and a different point of view and a different point of view and a different point of view. But it will not be again. 


### Dust Particles, Gems, and Screen Memories

Asker: I was sitting uh and a a shaft of light was coming down. It happened to be close to me. And uh so I could look through the shaft of light and notice all the little particles of dust that were floating around moving you know in this however they were moving. And uh suddenly I had this thought that um was more like a knowing that ideas send out like a message or ideas send out like a message or impulses which this is an analogy. These little particles are the analogy. uh that the the idea somehow magnetically assists uh or becomes a catalyst I guess for particulate uh for nonparticulate stuff to become particulate and coales am I clear am I correct in this


Bashar: you are correct in the terminology that you are using from one frame of reference you have formed a cohesive expression of this idea. In that sense, you are correct. There are many ways to say this and some of the other ways to say this would come up with completely different descriptions that would sound like contradictions to what you have just said, but from your frame of reference using those terms. Yes, you are correct.

It was it was um a little gift that was given to me, I believe, or that I gave myself and enjoy playing with very much, guys.

Okay.

Um, I have a strong desire to be around alexandrites and emeralds. And I'd like you to please tell me what they represent.

Nope. There you go again. There I go. You're going to find that out for yourself using that sparkling imagination.

Okay. Oh, well, that's fun, too. That's a lot of fun. Some time ago, um, I talked to you about, uh, what you called a very, um, thinly veiled screen memory that was given to me or that I created or somehow have uh, about an interaction. And at that time, you preferred not to talk about it. How about now?

That time is this time. Oh, there's no time like this time. And I will not talk about it now.

Okay. Well, how about the one where I was driving down the road?

Nope.

You're so elusive sometimes.

For sure.

You ain't seen nothing yet.

Okay, watch this. We're at this time. Oh, no. Come on back. I love being with you. Do you love being with yourself?

More and more. More and more. More and more. Yeah. It's a wonderful process and I'm having a lot of fun with that.

Well, I'm with you, too. Because we're really all one, aren't we? And yet, we are also all individuals.

Yes.

I find myself intrigued with the idea of a wonderful garden like the lady over here who's the farmer. I too have to be in the soil and watching things uh bloom. And it's beneficial for many of you at this time. Many of you do in fact really need to get back to the earth in many ways. And it it just feels so nourishing to me.

It is. And it's a perfect blending of my cooperating with the other elements and we all play this symphony together.

In what you call your near future, we are going to discuss the idea of the reflective reality of spacetime in a very different way than we ever have before. This will start to key your consciousness into a new understanding of how reality is projected and reflected and will be that which when taken in properly cause great when taken in properly cause great destructurization and disorientation to a constructive and creative end. We will do that in the near future.