---
heading: Part 2 of Preparing for Contact
title: "Fear of Flying"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2005-06-15
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 334
tags: ['buzzing sound']
---



### Question 6: Meditation Experience and Imagination

**Audience Member:** I had this experience of meeting um, Another Part Of Me. you had mentioned to me that I have a connection to the Pleiadians, so I interacted with this.  it was just this incredible experience of this being of immense love. I mean, it wasn’t very alien. 

**Bashar:** That’s because you connected to the thing that is common to every being. Oh. It’s connection to the unconditional love of all that is. That is one of the things every being in every dimension, everywhere and every when, does in fact have in common. And it will be the device that is most used to form a common bond: is getting in touch with the Unconditional Love of All That Is and feeling that for yourself, and thus feeling it for others and from them. You follow me?

**Audience Member:** I do. Thank you. So it was a very good place to start, and you instinctively knew what to do.

**Bashar:** Yeah.

**Audience Member:** I um, thank you. Um, I uh, I don’t feel like I have a tremendous amount of imagination. So when we were going around the ship, like I didn’t really... it was very helpful when you said if you have pets. So I had my two cats with me. All right. And uh, one of them is really old and she throws up a lot, so she immediately got off my lap, went on the floor, and threw up. Oh. All right. So wanted to uh, break the ship in. Ex... exactly. Make it feel lived in. Exactly. It makes you feel at home. I mean, I did laugh, but then I realized it was kind of like a connection, yes. You know, for that reason, it was yes. Um, very good.

**Bashar:** Cats are very good transitional beings. Carrying on conversations with them, learning how to see through their eyes, will make it much easier for you to understand how to see in other dimensions.

**Audience Member:** Oh, because they see in other dimensions all the time?

**Bashar:** Okay. That’s helpful. Yes. And by the way, saying that you don’t have a very good imagination just after explaining that you just had a long conversation with an alien aspect of yourself on a spaceship doesn’t really wash.

**Audience Member:** That’s a good point. Thank you. I was more saying that from the, you know, the seven or rather the six kind of aspects around the state of being or the... or the bridge, yes. You know, I would go when we were kind of exploring the ship, I would go and I would see a room of symbols or just a room that was just light. It’s like, yes, very good. This is it, you know. That’s all right.

**Bashar:** Okay. Do not judge it, for it is only your judgment upon it that makes it seem that your imagination is limited. Allow yourself to understand that what you’re seeing is what you need to see, and let yourself dive into it, understanding it is being presented to you in the way you need to look at it that serves you best. Then simply allow yourself to explore what that means for you, what meaning you have put into it. Okay? Don’t judge it as being lacking just because you don’t see what you expect to see. 

### Question 7: Falling Asleep and Flying Fear

**Audience Member:** It’s very frustrating, though, because I like to be um, aware and kind of consciously aware of things going on.

**Bashar:** Well, but you were aware in the way that you needed to be, and you knew what you needed to do to actually absorb more of the information and get your personality consciousness out of the way. So you did what you needed to do.

**Audience Member:** Except that I’m not aware of...

**Bashar:** Oh, you are. You are not consciously... oh, you are more than you think. You just have to pay attention. It’s not so very far below the surface. But that’s all right. You got it in the way you needed to, and you can always, if you wish, simply listen to it auditorily again to make the reconnection. But nevertheless, you got it in the way that you needed to.

**Audience Member:** I will. Um, about a year and a half ago, my husband decided that he wanted to take flying lessons.

so I sat in the back on his introductory flight, yes. And um, was paralyzed with fear for flying, which was pretty amazing because my father had a small plane when I grew up. I was always on a small plane, so I was very puzzled by this fear.

**Bashar:** Well, what were you afraid of specifically?

**Audience Member:** Dying. Dying, yes. So I took some flight lessons to try to address this fear because it really um...

**Bashar:** And how’d that go?

**Audience Member:** Well, you know, it took me a year, but I got my pilot license. Oh!

**Bashar:** Well, congratulations. I too am a pilot. Yes.

**Audience Member:** It was pretty exciting. I mean, uh, each lesson...

**Bashar:** And now are you still afraid?

**Audience Member:** Um, the radio intimidates me because I think I’m going to say something stupid. But I’m not really afraid of flying. I know that I can.

**Bashar:** But you’re afraid of saying something stupid. Yes. Are you paralyzed with fear that you’ll say something stupid?

**Audience Member:** I was. But I did. I went ahead and said something stupid and I got over my fear. Oh.

**Bashar:** Congratulations. So um, you see, that’s a good illustration for everyone: being afraid of something will actually never stop you from doing the thing. You can actually be afraid and still do it. Oh, yes. Yes.

**Audience Member:** So I... my instructor said I was his greatest success story. Oh.

**Bashar:** Congratulations. So my question is, where did this fear of flying come from?

**Bashar:** Well, it had to do more with the issue of being out of control. Yes. I’m a control thing for you. You weren’t the one flying the plane at first; you were sitting in the back while your husband flew, and it suddenly brought up all your issues of feeling like things were not in your control. So that’s what it put you in touch with. Okay?

**Audience Member:** Because I’m still not as com... I’m still more comfortable being the pilot than the passenger.

**Bashar:** But you see, there’s a trick that we tell people on your planet when they say that they are uncomfortable flying. And that is: when you’re sitting in your seat, put your hands squarely on the armrests, if you have them, or whatever would represent the idea to you of symbolic controls. And every single thing the plane does, whether it dips or spins or moves around or goes up or down or left or right, whatever it is that it does—that of course you know is happening because the other person is flying it intellectually, you know that—but whatever it does, pretend you intended it to do that. That you are in fact flying it, not the other person. Even if you do this on a large passenger jet, it will actually help you. Pretend that in your seat, your seat is actually the Pilot’s seat. Mhm. And when you then know you have the controls, you understand that everything the plane does, every shudder, every turbulence, every up and down, is actually something you’re causing the plane to do. And so instead of being paralyzed with fear, you get to go, "I wanted to do that."

**Audience Member:** If uh, the large airlines... I’ve never had a fear of flying with just... speaking in general. Okay.

**Bashar:** Okay. So even if you’re in the small plane in the back and you’re not actually doing the flying, you can still do the same technique and pretend that in fact, secretly, unknown to the pilot, you are actually flying the plane and they just think they are. Okay? Uh, until such time as you get used to the idea and are more willing to let go and let yourself know that you can in fact extend your trust of yourself and your trust of your life to include them, so that they become part of the fact that you are always still in control. Because your life is coming from within you no matter what it is represented by. You understand? You’re still creating your version of all the other people in your life as a part of your life and your control over it. So even if somebody else seems to be at the wheel, it’s still included in your bubble of you creating your own reality, and thus you’re still in control. And you can give over to that aspect of your life appearing to be in control and be comfortable with it as just a symbol of being more comfortable with the fact that your life is already doing fine and that you don’t have to have such a tight grip on the wheel to know that everything is going fine and smooth sailing. You understand? And that can also be applied to all aspects of your life, not just flying.

**Audience Member:** Because I apparently that’s something I need to deal with in this life is control issues.

**Bashar:** Yes. And this is a very good thing to bring up for this particular workshop, because one of the things many people may feel upon the idea of contact with beings of other vibrational frequencies is that suddenly you are completely out of control. And so it’s very good to deal with that idea and start seeing that as an aspect of you rather than something truly alien and beyond you. Mhm. You understand?

**Audience Member:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** So that was a very good thing to bring up so that all of you, upon contact, will also not be paralyzed with fear, fearing that suddenly our presence represents an idea that you are out of control, which you’re never, ever are. Right? That’s why we take such a careful and cautious approach with you all, to always let you know we’re queuing off of you, and we will respect your space and your pace. You will never be forced by us to accept us on our terms. You will accept us on your terms, and we recognize that, and therefore those are our terms too. You follow me?

**Audience Member:** Yes. Does that help you? Is that... is that uh, this uh, issue of control ego?

**Bashar:** Well, to some degree it is connected to that idea, but it is also having been brought up with belief systems and definitions that make you feel disconnected from your life in such a way that you feel that because you feel disconnected, you have to get a handle on it and steer it back into position, instead of assuming that all you have to do is be yourself for everything to automatically fall into place.

**Audience Member:** I see. Does that help?

**Audience Member:** Yes. Well, thank you. I had one last question that uh, I thought of earlier when uh, the gal was up here talking about her mother and Alzheimer’s. Is that uh, there’s a huge increase in Alzheimer’s in in the world right now. Is that uh, there is a huge increase in toxicity in the world as well? Toxicity? Is it transition? Part of it?

**Bashar:** It’s many different things. Very much too deep to go into right at the moment. But a lot of it has to do with toxicity, both of belief and physical.

[After Lunch]

Let us begin with the other part, the other symbols, the circles. Take out your writing implements. I’ll give you a moment. Anyone not have a writing implement yet? You all have writing implements? All right. Anyone not ready? All right.

Now notice once again the seven circles with the geometric line formation connecting them. Them. Now what you’re going to do is this: you’re going to pick from between three to five circles on the station chart, the ones that you feel right now you are most attracted to. It can be two circles if you really wish, but in this sense, it can also be 3 to 5 for what might be considered best results. You are going to connect those three to five circles in the following way: you’re going to use either one, two, or three straight lines based on the lines that exist in the template.

The rules are this: you must use to connect three to five circles of your choosing either one straight line, two straight lines, or three straight lines. But the lines must touch, and they cannot cross each other. You must go from a center of a circle to the center of another circle. So you must begin on the center and end on the center of a circle. And when you draw the second line, it must connect to the first in one of the centers, and the third line must connect also in one of the centers. But none of the lines can cross each other. If you look at the template, you must use the line of the template. If you find that the circles you have chosen cannot be connected by lines in this fashion that are connected to each other, then you must choose another circle.

So using either one line to go through two or three circles, or two lines to go through two or three or more circles, or three lines to go through two, three, four, or five circles, make your choices and draw your lines according to the lines that exist in the template and only those lines, without crossing any lines. So where lines cross, you cannot use those in that fashion. If you want to get to one of the circles, you have to get there by not crossing lines but by connecting all the lines together as if you are zigging and zagging. Is this clear?

The maximum number of lines you can use is three. With three lines, you are able to connect up to five circles max in this particular demonstration. Whether you can connect physically more or not is not the issue. You are allowed to connect from two to five circles using one to three lines that cannot cross but must touch in the center of some circle.

You can start with the station diagram. A line can go completely through a circle, and that will count as crossing and counting one circle as long as it passes through the center. If it doesn’t pass through the center of a circle but in between circles, then that circle does not count. It only counts if the line passes through the center of a circle. Yes. Or goes to the center of a circle without going all the way through, as long as you touch the center of a circle, that circle counts. 

When you have decided whether you have an affinity for two circles, three circles, four circles, or five circles, and you have connected them together with one, two, or three lines, then from that point forward, you can start to examine the nature of the states and qualities that go along with the stations you have connected that you find yourself attracted to. So if you wish, once you have created your line configuration and connections, you can transfer that same thing to the diagram of the states and the diagram of the qualities if you wish, just to make it clearer for yourself what kinds of things you are connecting together.

And once you see what those connections are, then you can understand that it is those particular states and qualities you will be working with in terms of amplifying them to attract yourself vibrationally to encounters and contacts that will also reflect those particular qualities and situations and stations and states. So right now, what you’re doing is you’re setting up the primary vibration of contact for you specifically as an individual, so that in a sense it will be like a signature vibration that can be recognized by those who will be in contact with you, and will be the vibration that is assisted in you to be amplified. It’ll be your calling card, in a sense. And those that deal with those vibrations, those stations, those states, those qualities, will be the ones who will then be most likely to be ones you’ll be attracting into contact with you. And in some sense, therefore, will receive, in a variety of ways, both physical and non-physical, mentoring from the beings that occupy these frequencies.

So you’re right now creating a shape, in a sense, with the lines. Be it a single line, two lines, three lines. You are creating a shape that is like a receiving antenna that represents the kind of vibrational signature you’re going to be giving off that will be responded to with regard to the idea of preparing for contact. So remember not only the circles you’re connecting, but remember the shape that connects them. The shape will be a shorthand way of instantly regenerating that vibration. Once you allow yourself to associate the particular states and qualities with that shape, then anytime you simply remember the shape of the lines, in what direction they go and so forth, what configuration they are in, you will instantly recreate that frequency when you do your contact work. Is that clear?

All right. Is anyone still working on creating this, or have you all finished? Anyone who is not finished? Anyone not finished? All right. Very good.

Now take a moment to look at the qualities that your line is connecting you to, and start to understand how they relate to one another, how they can support one another, amplify, complement one another. And this will be in a sense a diagram for you to continue to study until you are very familiar with all the different ways in which these qualities will interact with every other quality in your particular diagram configuration. And until you begin to really strongly associate these qualities and the feelings that go with them with the shape and direction that your line has taken—your glyph, shall we call it—has taken. That glyph will be like an insignia of your vibration. And the more you associate those qualities, states, and stations with your particular insignia, so that every time you then imagine just the insignia, the quality and the vibration and the feeling comes up for you, then it will be truly strongly ingrained within you. You can use this in a meditative way if you wish. Up to you and your imagination as to how you wish to learn to let this sink in until it is, in your terms, second nature. Until your glyph is the vibration, until the vibration is the glyph. Is that clear? Is there anyone to whom it is not clear? All right.

Now then, you may turn to the idea of the other symbols. Now we understand that some of you have begun to play with them and begun to figure out that the first page full of symbols is your key to deciphering the second page. Once you understand what the first page full of symbols means, you will then be able to use that first page to create a, shall we say, decryption code, a decryption key, to decipher the symbols on the second page and put your translation of the two statements on the second page into the blank spaces below them. And when you decipher what the symbols on the second page say, that’s where your little surprise will be.

So look at the first page, page of all the symbols. Look for the pattern that will tell you what those symbols represent. And once you understand what the symbols represent, you need to simply make the leap that will tell you how to use those symbols to decipher the symbols on the second page. Page.

Now you can do this now if you wish, and/or during your next break if you wish. It is up to you. But we would advise, while it is possible for people in a sense who are friends already to work together, that most of you simply do it on your own. And if you accomplish it and translate and decipher it, don’t share it with anyone. Let them work it out. And if they need assistance later, that can be given, but for now, let them have the fun of the challenge themselves. All right. All right.



### Question 8: Buzzing Sound and Noise

**Audience Member:** All right. I’m curious about the buzz in the room. The buzz in the room.

**Bashar:** I assume you actually mean that physiologically, the sound?

**Audience Member:** Yes. Caused by your equipment?

**Bashar:** Maybe it is caused by your technology. You understand? Yes. The technology in your building. Yes. But of course, there are no accidents. Yes. So the idea is, as we have discussed before, there are no real distractions unless you label them as such. And in this case, contingent with the issue of preparing for contact and based on the meditation we gave you earlier, if you wish, you can let that sound, that buzzing in, as if it is simply the sound that surrounds you on the spaceship with regard to all the technology going on there, and let it reinforce the idea that you are encompassed and encapsulated within that technological bubble you call the spaceship. Now, not every spacecraft makes noises like that, but some of them do based on the different kinds of technology they may contain. So if you wish to use it that way, you can.

You can also understand that the specific vibration that it is giving off is also actually being utilized by us, because we waste nothing. It is being utilized by us as a carrier wave. In other words, we understand that many of you will simply not be able to avoid hearing it. That particular vibration will simply come in with everything that you hear. And in letting that vibration in, we are capable of actually putting information on that vibration so that it will simply go into you in an unconscious way. We use everything in your environment. You understand?

**Audience Member:** Yes, I understand. How does that relate to the experience that I have of hearing noises of machines and etc. in places where I want... think I want to have silence?

**Bashar:** Again, the idea is that you can create a place of silence, but if for some reason there are noises within, then assume that they need to be there and absorb them and invite them in as part of the silence rather than an interruption in it. For there is information in them, and the more you accept the so-called noise as information, the more they will all blend into a kind of state that will give you a different kind of silence. Does that make sense?

**Audience Member:** Yes, I understand that, but I don’t know how to do that, because I... I think I’ve tried, and I still find that I...

**Bashar:** Well, in what way are you quote-unquote "trying"?

**Audience Member:** Well, I think that I hear a noise which sounds like a noise I thought shouldn’t be there, and I start to say, okay, what if that noise is the noise that I need to hear, or accepting that there’s some vibrational quality to that noise which would be beneficial. But it’s not just about thinking about it that way.

**Bashar:** First, it’s getting in touch with why you have a belief system within you that thinks it shouldn’t be there. Until you get in touch with the definition that first thinks it shouldn’t be there, you won’t have the definition consciously that you need to change so that you can allow it to be there. So it’s not just about saying, okay, I think this can work for me. It’s about first finding out why you originally thought it didn’t work for you. Yes? Thank you. The noise first puts you in touch with the negative belief, and then knowing the negative belief, you can change it to a positive one that will make the noise work for you. But you can’t just say the noise will work for you if you haven’t gotten in touch with the belief that says it won’t first. Make sense?

**Audience Member:** Yes. Thank you. Thank you.

### Question 9: Detoxification and Diet

**Audience Member:** Hi, Bashar.

**Bashar:** And a you? Good day.

**Audience Member:** Um, you spoke of the toxic environment in our belief system and in our physical environment. Um, do you have any messages for us to prepare our physical bodies for contact or something that will help?

**Bashar:** Okay. We have talked about this now and then, but we will repeat it here. It will be that contact will be very much more capable of happening if your bodies are highly conductive to different levels of energy. And to make your bodies far more conductive or conducive to contact, it would be beneficial if you would remove the toxins from your bodies as quickly and as fully as you possibly can. To this end, we have often suggested that there are very strong detoxification programs that are available from certain sources on your planet that you should at least, in a sense, avail yourself of once or twice a year to maintain the detoxification level that will be of great benefit to your system.

In detoxifying, you also allow your body more capability of absorbing the nutrients that are required for your body to heal itself and to keep itself in a state of balance. Whereas if you are full of toxins, then your body spends all its time dealing with the toxins and really has no reserves left over to actually allow the nutrients that you attempt to put into your body to be properly absorbed. And so in that sense, there are two ineffective things happening. You follow me?

**Audience Member:** I do.

**Bashar:** We have sometimes suggested the idea of a detoxification program that is put out by a company on your planet called American Botanical Pharmacy, which exists in what you call your Marina del Rey area. They have a very efficacious detoxification program, and they also have extremely potent herbal organic remedies that will supply the body with the proper nutrients that can then be very rapidly absorbed by the body because they are designed in that way to be rapidly absorbed. That will help the body heal itself from almost anything very quickly. But detoxification is the key first. And not only for the idea of the general health of the body, but also for the idea of making your body more capable of processing higher frequencies of energies. The toxins in that sense will attempt to impede just because they’re not the vibration of those energies. Okay?

**Audience Member:** Um, thank you. Any information on a plant-based diet as opposed to people that eat meat?

**Bashar:** All right. Well, again, in general, you will find that the idea of adding more fresh organic vegetables to your diet and fruits to your diet will aid and assist in the upliftment of your vibration. But we also understand the evolutionary state that many of you are in will not necessarily allow you to completely divest yourself of the concept of meat protein. We would simply recommend that if you find that you feel it is necessary, if your body consciousness feels at this point it is necessary to have some meat protein still in your diet, that A) you make sure it is at least the freshest, most natural, and organic version of that that you can possibly find; B) that you bless the animal, in that sense, and thank it in gratitude for its willingness to allow you to absorb its essence in that way in order for you to do the work of high energy that you need to do. And see, you simply attempt to eat as little of it as possible, whereas you don’t need to gorge on it, because you actually get quite a lot of protein out of it and quite a lot of other nutrients out of it with very, very small amounts.

And in general, it would be advantageous to your body to have several smaller meals a day rather than a few large ones a day. Your body will be able to process it more quickly. And if again it is small amounts at each meal, in that sense, it will be able to handle whatever it is you are putting into it, as long as it is the freshest and most organic version possible. But pay attention to your body consciousness. You don’t have to force yourself to be more spiritual or more enlightened. Go with the flow of what seems easy to you, but also pay attention and be honest with yourself about why you may still be being attracted to eating certain things, because sometimes it’s not because your body really needs it; it’s just because sometimes you feel you’ll be deprived if you don’t have it. You follow me?

**Audience Member:** I do. Does this help?

**Audience Member:** Yes. Thank you greatly. I have one more question. Um, in reference to the 13-moon calendar of time as opposed to our Gregorian calendar. Yes. Um, being in more harmonic frequency with Earth time. Do you... do you have anything to say about that?

**Bashar:** Many people will find that their vibrational cycle is in fact more compatible with that particular type of timekeeping. Okay. So if you find an affinity to it, you can certainly allow yourself to think that you are more aligned with that and feel more aligned with that. And you will find that if you do so, if you relate to that calendar more than the other one, you may find that other abilities that have been long since dormant may come to the forefront because you will be in that sense living your natural biological cycle. Okay? Does that help?

**Audience Member:** It does. And um, one very last thing: do you have any messages for helping children prepare for contact?

**Bashar:** Children are far more prepared for contact than most adults. Just allow them to continue to use their imagination and understand that they need to be encouraged to explore the idea of how to apply what excites them the most into the world, rather than making them conform to the structures that exist. Allow them to discover how they can use what excites them to learn what they need to learn, based on the interpretation of what excites them and the different ways in which they can imagine applying information that they need to know to the things that excite them, rather than forcing them to fit in a box. Gotcha? Follow me?

**Audience Member:** Yes. Greatly. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Anything also that will involve strong, strong interactive experiences will be very, very beneficial for the retention of information and also for the empowerment of the child, to let them know how strongly they in fact do create their reality. For if you put them in an interactive situation, they will have a practical way to apply what interests them, and they will get a practical effect out of it, which will reinforce their original excitement. Okay? Does that help you?

**Audience Member:** It does. Thank you. Thank you.

### Question 10: Symbol Deciphering Clue

**Bashar:** How are you all doing with your little puzzle? All right. How many of you feel you are close to deciphering it? Yeah. How many of you feel you are not yet close? Yeah. All right. Keep going. Any more questions?

**Audience Member:** Yes. All right. Good day.

**Bashar:** Good day to you, Bashar. Uh, pleasure to be in your presence again.

**Audience Member:** And yours as well. Thank you. Um, pleasure to be present in your presence at the present time. I’d like to sort of like tell a little story about this life’s preparation for contact.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right.

**Audience Member:** Um, when I was 5 to 10 years old, I would have, as my parents told me, were dreams of little men with big heads in my room with lights outside the windows. Yes. And then uh, I would just wake up, or I would just be... yes. Uh, frightened. Yes. Then at 8 to 10 years, that was still happening a bit, but then I would feel uh, during different times of the day or different actions, an almost like a burning hot blood flow in the back of my head that would just stopped me in whatever I was doing. Yes. Drop me to my knees, and I would just wait it out. Yes. And then at about 12 years old, um, that disappeared. Yes. Then um, years ago, when I was here in uh, the early days... the early days of Darryl Anka channeling... oh, all right. Energy. Um, I had gone to a Tibetan Gong meditation where I was went through some type of wormhole and ended up uh, in the body of a dolphin. All right. And um, had a really interesting experience that way. Oh, all right.

**Bashar:** And then in... Now understand that that is simply a connection to a parallel existence as a dolphin. You understand? Okay? It’s not that you ended up in the body of a dolphin; you connected to another version of your oversoul that’s already having a simultaneous experience as a dolphin.

**Audience Member:** So I was able to uh, switch the channels on the TV in a sense.

**Bashar:** Yes. Very good. Okay.

**Audience Member:** Um, then in another experience, I did that with a uh, what I would call an etheric orca that you could actually see through, but it was shimmering, and it it felt like some aspect of myself or guide or contact. Yes. Okay. Then, um, then outside of Area 51, I saw a light that you had confirmed was had been operated by a um, a hybrid. It was actually a ship that we had seen. Yeah. Um, and then in um, with my uh, my wife Jennifer, and I... she’s had memories of she and I actually being uh, detained together as children. Yes.

**Bashar:** So all these things... you not really looking for validation. Many people in your planet who find each other as adults actually have met long, long ago as children in some of those experiences on board ships. Yes. Okay. And it’s been such a great um, bond between us. I mean, when we met, we we knew nothing like... Abduction dating service.

**Audience Member:** So. So. And then I’m here for for whatever my next is. And I guess I just wanted to um... I’m certainly not going to tell you what your next is, right?

**Bashar:** No. I understand that for you. But well, there’s... would you like to ask?

**Audience Member:** Well, somehow I’m still getting in the way of myself as far as what...

**Bashar:** Makes you think you are?

**Audience Member:** Um, because of the timetable. The timetable is fine.

**Bashar:** You are fine in it. The only time you are not fine in the timetable is when you spend time wondering if you’re getting in your own way. That’s the paradox. If you stop worrying about missing the timetable, you won’t miss it. When you worry about missing it, you will, because you’re spending your time worrying about missing it and not being in it. But if you just be in it, you can’t miss it. It’s designed that way. Okay?

**Audience Member:** I... does that help?

**Audience Member:** That helps. Um, my interpretation is that I’m not so much uh, getting in... you know, missing it. I’m not worried about the timetable in missing it. It’s me. Uh, maybe that... maybe I am just...

**Bashar:** Yes. Well, you said you’re getting in your way, which somehow implies you’re slowing yourself down, which somehow implies you’re going to not be ready for something. Okay? You were the one that referred to a timetable. That’s true. So you have certain expectations about what you think is going to happen and when you think it’s going to happen, and you want to make sure that you’re going to be ready when it does. Well, you will if you stop worrying if you’re going to be ready. So it’s the expectation expectancy thing. Yes. Okay? Does that help?

**Audience Member:** Yes. Anything else?

**Bashar:** Uh, just I really appreciate all this.

**Audience Member:** We appreciate all of you as well. And it’s great to bring my excitement back here and um, be with everyone in this presence again.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Thank you.

### Question 11: Staying in the Now and Hybrids

**Bashar:** How are you doing with the puzzle? Great. Good. All right. More of you have it. All right. All right. One at a time. Who feels they have it? Say yes. Who feels they do not? Say no. No. Thank you. More questions?

**Audience Member:** Hi, Bashar.

**Bashar:** And a you? Good day.

**Audience Member:** Good day to you. I have difficulty staying in the now.

**Bashar:** You have difficulty staying in the now?

**Audience Member:** It’s my consideration. Oh, all right. I don’t know if bleeding is the correct word, but I find myself um, going into these different dimensions or um, parallel universes so quickly.

**Bashar:** Yes. Well, what makes you think they’re not part of the now? It all is the now.

**Audience Member:** Yes. But being present, yes. So that I can just hear a conversation in the physical universe and not be um... um, when I’m look... when I talk to people, I don’t just see them. I... what they’re putting out, there’s so many realities that are flashing in front of me, yes, all the time. Yes. And there are times when I can’t keep up with my emotions. Um, example: there are strong feelings of these hybrids that yes, um, that I feel like I’m struggling to be in touch with, not just while I’m sleeping, but while in my waking state. All right. Sometimes I feel that I see them. Sometimes I question my sanity because there’s so many different um, uh, um, things that I’m seeing. So my... my... I want to be able to validate my... not necessarily expect you or anyone else to say what I’m seeing is true. I mean, I... I do.

**Bashar:** Well, it’s true for you in terms of your process and what it is that you need to get in touch with. The experience you are having and the way you’re having it is what is designed by you for you to put you in touch with what you need to get in touch with.

**Audience Member:** So when I keep hearing these baby... I... I... there’s a part of me that feels that my babies are dead. What does this mean?

**Bashar:** It means that they are simply beyond your reach at the moment, but they’re not dead.

**Audience Member:** I know they’re not dead. And yet I have tremendous grief connected to this.

**Bashar:** It’s because of what you call separation anxiety. Okay? But you will ultimately be rejoined.

**Audience Member:** But aren’t I already joined in another dimension with him?

**Bashar:** Yes. But you are still processing through this particular perspective. When you look at it from that point of view, you feel it as separation. It’s about the idea of allowing the connection you know is going on in another dimension to also be felt tangibly in this one. That’s right.

Now, do you enjoy water?

**Audience Member:** Yes.

**Bashar:** How much?

**Audience Member:** I... I enjoy it. I... I love water, and I have always lived on the water.

**Bashar:** How about starting to live a little bit more in it?

**Audience Member:** What does that mean?

**Bashar:** It means diving, being underwater in a different environment, one that may be more supportive for the kind of energies that you’re feeling and allow you a better opportunity to process them by putting you in a different state of being that might be more conducive to that processing. Okay? So taking up scuba diving might be very beneficial for you. Okay? And spending more time underwater, under a different kind of pressure, might be very beneficial for your ability to process what you’re going through, because the air might simply be too thin for what you’re experiencing, and you need a buffer.

**Audience Member:** Oh, you’re reminding me of something. I... when I was with Darryl last May, I showed him a picture. When I was in Kona, Hawaii, I was um, doing a healing session for about 40 people, yes. And um, somebody took a picture of me, and there is a tremendous amount of light in the sky, and there was these four objects coming out of my third eye. To me, they look like dolphins. Did you uh, have an opinion as to whether they were dolphins?

**Bashar:** It’s some connection to dolphin energy, telling you in a sense that that’s your invitation: go and be more in their environment, and that’s actually what will help you process the energy, because they know how to do that. So by being in the water, not only will you put yourself in a different environment that will help you, like a buffer that will help you in a different frequency that will help you, but because the dolphin energy is also in the water, they can help you.

**Audience Member:** All right. Okay. So take up scuba diving. Okay. I actually did that many years ago. Well, and I’m... I’d be happy to... time to do it again.

**Bashar:** Okay. So to be able to um, focus and be here in the now, yes, and not uh... take up scuba diving.

**Audience Member:** Okay. It will give you the ability for what you’re looking for.

