---
heading: Part 2 of The Other Side
title: "Suicide, Grief, and the Afterlife"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2007-01-15
icon: Bashar
weight: 515
tags: ['suicide']
showdate: true
---



**Questioner:** I have a friend who committed suicide last year. We had a fight before. She first was very sick and she was in the intensive care for two weeks.

**Bashar:** You know that she forgives you and she's doing fine.

**Questioner:** That's what I wanted. Yes, I know she forgives you and she's doing fine.

**Bashar:** When you reach that side, sometimes there can be a little bit of confusion depending upon how you got there, but generally speaking very rapidly for most people they will be helped and they will be fine. And she understands a different perspective of life now and does not hold it against you that you fought. 

**Questioner:** Sometimes I ask some different psychics about her and then some people say that oh she's still around and then she can be when she wishes to be, but she's not stuck if that's what you mean.

Some people say that she's stuck still.

**Bashar:** No, no, no. What they are picking up on is that everyone will always leave a residual energy that never goes away. But the consciousness, the being herself, is not stuck, even though there may be an echo left behind. You understand? It's like that because nothing ever goes away. Anything that is created exists forever. So someone may pick up on the part of them that is still around, but that's not the major portion of the consciousness. That's just a leftover, a remnant, an echo. You understand? Does that make sense to you?

**Questioner:** But sometimes I feel like she's around.

**Bashar:** Well, she can be around. She can focus and check in with more of herself, yes. Of course any entity in spirit can do that. But it's just that she's not always around because she is busy too. There are things to do. People don't just hang around waiting for people. You understand? They have lives still to live in different ways.

So the psychic is not wrong, just picking up on a different interpretation or a different aspect of the consciousness that is always around, but also picking up on the fact that the consciousness can be around when it wants to. It's free to come and go in that sense. So all these ideas are true. We are just giving you a fuller and more detailed explanation of how that works. You understand? Does that help you?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** All right. Anytime that you feel her in your heart, you can know she's around. And anytime you think of her and feel her in your heart, understand whether she exactly comes around or not, she will always get the message. Always. Because it's easier on her level for her to receive your energy than many times it is for you to receive hers or be aware of it. You understand? But sometimes you can be, and the more sensitive you get to the spirit level, the more often you can feel her when she's strongly around as opposed to just around a little bit. You understand? Does that help address the question?

**Questioner:** Yes. But I would like to say something a little bit more. She was in your bash session. The first time I was in session, I was with her and she asked about her mother. And Bash said that you said that mother is around and she's really happy to have the red roses and she was really happy at the time of the session. And I would like to know, she's with her mother right now?

**Bashar:** Yes. Those people that have been together in life will almost always gravitate toward each other in spirit. Now again, they won't be together all the time in the same way that you're not together all the time in physical reality with your mother or your father or your brothers and sisters or your friends. But yes, especially when you cross over into spirit, all the loved ones that are in spirit will usually greet you and say welcome home. 

**Bashar:** But remember, even though you may be greeted by members of the family that you had this life with, when you really meet them, you understand they are more than just those people. Because the same people can have been in other lives. Your father, your brother, your sister, your cousin, your child. And you see them for who they really are, not just that they were being your mother in one particular life. You recognize them for the true recognition of who they are, the true relationship you have as spirit to spirit, even though you also recognize what roles they may have played in different lives with you. 


## The Afterlife, Dimensions, and Ascension


**Questioner:** Mention or which world or where do we go after this life?

**Bashar:** Well, it's a higher vibrational plane, a higher vibrational dimension if you wish to call it that, a higher frequency one that is invisible to you generally as a physical person. Do you understand the concept of the visible spectrum of light? You understand that there is light that you can see and light that you cannot see? Well, it's like that. There is a type of frequency that allows you as a physical being to see it, but there are frequencies of energies that are so high in vibration that you cannot see them. The spirit level is like that. So in a sense, you don't actually go anywhere. The spirit realm is right here, but it's on a different frequency so you don't interact. And that's why you actually can, when you're sensitive to it, be in touch with spirit, because it's not like you have to reach out to some place far away. They're right here. Everything is right here. All dimensions, all realities, all experiences, all times, all places are right here. When you operate on the same frequency, then you can interact. But when you operate on a different frequency, you don't see each other, you don't interact in the same way that you do if you're on the same frequency.

Again, we go back to the television analogy. You know that if you're watching television, you're watching a particular program. It doesn't mean all the other programs aren't there. You're just not tuned to it, so you don't see it. But when you want to see another program, you change the channel. What have you done when you changed the channel? You changed frequency. And now the program that was invisible a moment ago is now visible to you, and the program that was visible a moment ago is now invisible to you. This is how creation is structured. Different frequencies mean different reality experiences, and usually they don't interact unless you attempt to make an interaction with them or unless they attempt to make an interaction with you.

So now in this new time on your planet, in this new day and age, you are learning that you can change your frequency enough so that you can still be physical but also be more sensitive to receiving information from the spirit channel as well. You are changing your definition of reality to allow yourself more opportunity to communicate with more levels of creation in your physical reality. You are writing your life to become like another TV program that contains the ability to communicate with both physical and non-physical beings. And of course, as you make that more possible in your actual physical lives, you are actually also seeing more of those kinds of ideas in your actual movies and TV programs. More the idea of spirits, more the idea of extraterrestrials are in your programs in movies and TV, because it's also what you're changing your lives to be like. And that is what these kinds of conversations and interactions are for, is so that we are together creating a new reality in which we can interact with each other instead of being so different.


## Ascension and Densities

**Questioner:** I heard now that the Earth is going on the Ascension, going toward the Ascension.

**Bashar:** You are in the process of Ascension. That's just an uplifting of your frequency. So uplifting, yes, raising of your frequency is Ascension.

**Questioner:** This Ascension is going from this current third dimension to fourth dimension?

**Bashar:** Third density to fourth density. Density is a little bit different than dimension. Density is a different way of experiencing physical reality. It's still physical, but a higher, more refined vibration of physical reality. You must understand that all of you today on your planet are much higher in vibration than people on your planet were a few hundred years ago. And if someone were able from a few hundred years ago to look at you today, you would actually appear to be glowing with light to them, because your vibration is so much higher than theirs was 300 years ago. But you're used to it, so you don't see it. So from the perspective of someone who lived 300 years ago, many of you today are already highly ascended. But you live in that energy and so you don't notice the difference because you have nothing to compare it to of 300 years ago. And as you grow and explore more of yourself, you will raise your frequency even more, and all of that is the process of Ascension. Does that make sense?

**Questioner:** I'd like to know some people say we are going through from the third to the fourth or the fifth. What is the difference between we going the fourth or we are going to be the fifth level?

**Bashar:** Well, again it just may depend upon their point of view in terms of how they are labeling it. But generally speaking, it is understood you're going from third to fourth. Our civilization is going from fourth to fifth, and other civilizations are going from fifth to sixth, and so on. And with each level there is less and less dense physicality and more and more open and refined spiritual energy. This is what density means. It's like going from ice to water to steam. More dense, less dense, least dense. So you are moving from ice to water. We're moving from water to steam, as an analogy. Does that help?

**Questioner:** Yes, thank you.

**Bashar:** So that's why it's important for you to learn how to flow like water and no longer be rigid like ice.



## Teaching Yoga and Receiving Information


**Questioner:** I have been teaching yoga for the past couple months. I just started a couple months ago. And I understand that my knowledge is limited.

**Bashar:** That's all right. It will grow.

**Questioner:** And so what I like to do is I like to be like a channeler, getting the information from the universe like a divine source.

**Bashar:** You can. And through that and at the same time, get it from wherever you can get it from that represents the path of least resistance. And if that sometimes means a human teacher will teach you more, accept it as another version of information from divine source coming through a person. We are saying yes you can get it through inspiration, but do not ever rule out or refuse to accept information from any direction, from any source, because it's all divine.

Sometimes you might be walking down the street and say all right, I would like to get divine inspiration for more information I need to teach yoga. And you could be walking down the street and suddenly you see a sign "yoga class." That might be your answer because maybe there is something about the process of going through the class that you need to do in order for the information to stick within you in a way it otherwise wouldn't stick if it was just sent right to your head.

Sometimes the information you need will come in a very direct way, but sometimes it will come in what seems to be a less direct way, and if it does there's a reason for that. Trust it. The point is just be open to all sources of information because it's all divine, and follow your excitement, and make sure that you are not labeling something as not exciting when it actually could be.


## Dream Interpretation and Star Connections

**Questioner:** I had this dream just this morning before I came to the session. This is where there was a river or ocean, there was water, and there was this one big fish, it's almost the size of dolphin, and there were people on top of that fish, flowing. There were many dolphin-like fish, and people were on top of each fish, and they were like floating. And I'd like to know what that means.

**Bashar:** You are having an experience on another level and communicating with beings from another star system called Sirius, but you are translating it in your dream in a certain way. They don't look exactly like that, but your mind translated it that way. But you are having an actual communication with beings from Sirius because you have a strong connection there yourself.

**Questioner:** When you said Sirius, that one thing reminded me that I have had a session through a spiritual person who was able to communicate with the outer world. This person said I in the world of Sirius was with this teacher that I was following who was very important to me. And maybe I have some message or information that I should be getting from this teacher.

**Bashar:** Well, and you are. You don't always know it, but you are. And a lot of the information has to do with helping you live your Earth life and exciting you with things that will actually move you forward. That's the information. If you simply follow the flow of your highest excitement, you will always receive all the information you need from anywhere else that is sending it. But you may not always know it or recognize it when you get it because it will come in the form you need it to come in that will simply allow you to continue to act on your excitement.

**Questioner:** Doesn't mean that I existed in Sirius in the previous life before?

**Bashar:** Yes, but it also means you do right now, because all lives are actually simultaneous. Many of the beings that you actually interact with, many of you in other realms in other ways, are actually another version of you in another reality. In the same way that I am the channel's future self in another reality, and the channel sitting before you is my past self on Earth. But we exist simultaneously. Many of you are interacting with other versions of yourselves in other dimensions in other realities in much the same way that I am also the channel in the future and the channel is also me in the past, but we both exist simultaneously.

**Questioner:** A moment of explanation also if I may. Some of you that are experiencing bodily reactions such as coughing and sneezing, these are just reactions to the energy that we are giving off that you are processing. Don't worry about it. Sometimes when you encounter an energy frequency that is very different from your own, it may take a while for your body to adapt, and sometimes it may have certain kinds of physical reactions before it does. But it is also a sign that you are actually absorbing our energy frequency and attempting to match it. And in attempting to match it, you are attempting to get rid of things that don't belong to you anymore, get rid of old ideas that don't belong to you anymore. And your body is reacting that you are getting rid of those things.

**Questioner:** That's why I was coughing just now.

**Bashar:** Yes. So I just feel like I have to cough all of a sudden out of blue. So maybe it's the energy that you are attempting to adapt to, to absorb, and you are attempting to change yourself and expel things that no longer belong to you. Many humans will react in different ways physically when they encounter our energy. Some will have coughing fits, some will have sneezing fits, some will simply fall asleep, but they are still absorbing the energy that they need to and using it to process old definitions, old beliefs that they no longer need, that no longer work for them.


## Expressing Love

**Questioner:** To me the harmony or peace is very important, but then I have some issues that I have. I'm not sure if it's good to share that with other person.

**Bashar:** It is up to you. Whatever you are comfortable with.

**Questioner:** So you're saying that if I don't feel comfortable, if I don't want to do this, then I shouldn't do it?

**Bashar:** Not sharing if you're not comfortable sharing is what I'm saying. Not the thing itself. If you're not comfortable sharing it with us, you don't have to.

**Questioner:** I'd like to share my love. I'd like to know that the way I express love to others, not just to particular person but the people around me or surroundings, am I doing an effective way to make sure that my love has been reaching to the people around me?

**Bashar:** In what way do you share love? In what way do you express love? Can you be more specific? Well, before you continue, understand that any intention you have of giving love is always sending love, whether someone else perceives it or not. But you do want to take the time to decide that the way in which you might express love is actually harmoniously aligned with your intention to express love, that the physical action of expressing love is harmoniously aligned with your intention to be loving. Everyone will always receive what they need, but you can also take the time to make sure that your expression is harmoniously aligned with your intention. Do you believe or do you feel that your expression is not aligned with your intention, or are you afraid it might not be aligned with your intention?

**Questioner:** It's not something I can see, but maybe for people who have many problems, then they may not see.

**Bashar:** Well, they may not, but that's all right. You see, if you actually are loving unconditionally, it doesn't matter whether someone else sees that you are loving or not. You still love them unconditionally and let them take what they want or what they can handle. If something in your ego needs them to see that you are loving, then you are not loving unconditionally. 


## Suffering, War, and Soul Contracts

**Questioner:** On this earth right now there are wars or many conflicts happening right now. Some people are very poor, but some people are very rich. And in some cases kids lose their parents because of the war. I'd like to know, do you think that the soul or the person decided to have these incidents in this lifetime before they come into it?

**Bashar:** Sometimes it is specifically chosen. Many times it is not specific. Sometimes a soul will choose a specific kind of incident in which to experience an idea, but many times the soul will just be open to experiencing an idea in any way that the reality has of letting it experience it. So let us say a soul feels that in a particular life it wants to experience the idea of loss of a loved one. So it might make an agreement to have a life with another soul who's choosing to have a short life. Now it may not matter to the soul that wishes to experience the loss of a loved one whether their loved one dies of a disease or dies in an accident or dies in a war. So that may not necessarily have to have been specifically chosen, just that they will get to experience what they want to experience somehow. And it may not make a difference to the soul that has chosen to have a short physical life as to how they exactly die. It may or may not. So they will just attract themselves to whatever circumstance will allow them to die at a time that is appropriate for the agreement that they created between themselves.

Now of course the soul that chose the short life is also learning something. They also experiencing something that they chose. But it might have been necessary to do it in a specific way, or it might not have been necessary to do it in a very specific way. It depends on what it is the soul is choosing to learn. So sometimes a soul might know before they come into the life, I am going to die at exactly 10 minutes after 12 on this particular day and I'm going to die this way because that's what serves what I want to experience in this life. Or they may simply say, well any time between now and then, any way you want, doesn't matter. But whatever it is, however it is that it works out, it will serve someone. There are no accidents and nothing is wasted. So whatever it is happens will serve someone's soul growth.

Now this does not mean that you have to keep on having war and keep on having disease. These are lessons in themselves and are also changeable things. You don't have to have those things. And sometimes choosing to die in a war might be for the purpose of then having another life in which you will be the person that makes sure there is no more war. But really from the soul's point of view, it's all just experience. And in a sense it's like a dream. You see, when you die and you go into spirit, it's actually like waking up from a dream. So just like you go to sleep now and you dream and then you wake up in the morning, the dream may have seemed very real, but as you understand you're now awake and you go about your life, the dream fades. You know that's not my real life, this is my real life. And so when you die and go into spirit, well the physical life was very real but it fades. It's like, well that was a dream, this is my real life. Does that make sense?

**Questioner:** Thank you. So what you're saying is that the experiences that we have changes depending on our mission?

**Bashar:** Yes. And you use the experience to add to your growth as a consciousness, as a soul. The only thing that is actually real is the experience. Physical reality is not really real. The experience you have in physical reality, that's real. That's what you take with you. So it's all about what did you learn, how did you grow. You understand? How do you see yourself differently now than you did before that life, and what else now do you understand about creation that you didn't understand without that experience?

Creation is all that is. God if you wish, doesn't matter what you call it. Creation is God experiencing itself in all the ways that it can, through all of the people it can be. So you are God experiencing itself as you. You are God experiencing itself as you. You are God experiencing itself as you. I am God experiencing itself as me. Every being, every thing is all that is, but experiencing itself from a different point of view. And each different point of view is what we all are. 


## Soulmates and Relationships


**Questioner:** I met this person that I feel very strongly about and I feel like this person may be my soulmate. However, he's from Japan and he's going back to Japan and I intend to live in the US.

**Bashar:** You can be soulmates and not live together, you know.

**Questioner:** Well, I like to be with him physically.

**Bashar:** I'm not saying anything can or cannot be. Anyone at any given moment you are most strongly attracted to at that moment is your soulmate because you're attracted to them at that moment for a reason.

Even if a year from now you are not attracted to them anymore, they were still your soulmate at that moment. It's the attraction and the reason for the attraction that's important.

The reason for the attraction is not always what you think. Many of you are attracted to other people in order to go through a certain process, to learn something that you need. 

It's not always because you have to always be with that person for the rest of your life. But that person at that moment is being your soulmate, giving you the reflection that you need at that moment to grow and become more of your true self.

Now it may work out one way or another, and we would need to explore that more to maybe see what you have set up for yourself. But all we are simply explaining to you is that soulmate doesn't always necessarily mean that it's someone you live with for the rest of your life. But it may be. It depends on what you've chosen.

So he is going to Japan, you are staying in the United States. Where do we go from here? Things could change for one or the other of you. He may decide that he wants to come back to the US, you may decide you want to go to Japan, or you may simply fly back and forth and be with each other as often as you possibly can. Depends. Do you really have a preference?

**Questioner:** Well, I'd like to be with this person in the most harmonious and prosperous way for both of us and around us.

**Bashar:** And are you following your highest excitement?

**Questioner:** I think I not maybe except I feel very peaceful with this person that I never felt with anybody else before.

**Bashar:** But I mean in general in your life, not just about him. Are you following your highest excitement in life in general?

**Questioner:** Yes, I think so.

**Bashar:** All right. Is he?

**Questioner:** I think he's searching for that.

**Bashar:** Yes. All right. Well, maybe that search will bring him back to where you are. What does he like to do? What excites him?

**Questioner:** He's very interested in Mexican culture.

**Bashar:** Well, isn't that closer to where you live?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So if he truly followed his excitement, wouldn't that actually bring him back closer to where you live?

**Questioner:** That's true.

**Bashar:** Well, there you go.
