---
heading: Part 2 of A Matter of Faith
title: ""
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2006-10-28
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 362
tags: ['']
---



### **Q&A Session - Part 1**

**Participant 1:** Bashar's birthday, Earth Day is, November 11th, so I'd like to wish you a happy pre-birthday. 

**Bashar:** Thank you. 

**Participant 1:** Last time I interacted with you I shared how I was driving a very old car and very nervous about it. Shortly thereafter I was able to get a new car. I was able to manifest other material things in my life. 

My organization Create Now is making great progress and strides. I've been following your lesson that it's taken me all these years to learn, which is to surrender. Yes. And why... why does that work? I'm trusting... simple, simple. Why does that work?  Because I know... 

**Bashar:** Because those things exist within you. They're not things that exist outside of you, really. So the idea of the law of attraction is not so much literally that you're attracting things to you from outside. It's that you yourself recognize those things are already within you as part of your definition of being. 

Attraction is really just awakening to what's already within you and allowing yourself to know that they are part of the definition of who you are. 

**Participant 1:** So when... thank you. And so when I feel those moments of anxiety or fear, yes, then I need to just focus on the *I am* and the knowing and to let go and surrender for the anxiety. 



**Bashar:** Why not? 

Asker: It's great information and I am planning to use it. 

But you don't even have to plan it, you just do it. 

**Participant 1:** I'm doing it. Thank you. Thank you so much. And I was also um pleased that you know over the years my friends have teased me that I'm always asking a million questions and I didn't really have any compelling questions to ask you. I've just felt I needed to share. 

**Bashar:** As we have said, you do not need questions to communicate with us. You can always make statements if you wish. 

**Participant 1:** Thank you. But last night we were discussing with Daryl the channel the idea of your relationship with him as a future self. Yes. And we had as a group a question about whether genetics are involved with that. If in his... if you're because you're a hybrid entity and a future self, are Daryl's genetics a part of you as well? 

**Bashar:** Yes. 

**Participant 1:** And is there anything else you can elaborate on that? 

**Bashar:** At the end of this transmission today, after your break, we have a little story surprise. 

**Participant 1:** Wonderful. Thank you so much.

**Participant 2:** Thank you for the synchronous introduction. Hi Bashar, and you good day. Um, at the beginning of the meditation I was staring at the crystal before we closed our eyes and I felt like I had this strong image talking about this knowing sense. And when you were mentioning about dropping the veil and um of the facets of the crystal being this representation of all of our parts and selves and thoughts and ideas. And I want to talk and take that knowing idea and talk about the idea of how you've often said that we can't really meet you, at least at this point in person, because we would feel fractured. And I I feel like those two ideas are connected. Yes. And I got that strongly. And I got the idea and when you mentioned the film frame about the focus... looking for a bridge here in terms of being able to be closer, to be more cohesive and... I don't know how to say this... connected within myself to be able to be closer to the idea of meeting you or people like you, or or being my better self or my more whole self. 

**Bashar:** All right. All right. First of all, remember that what we have also already said is that many of you have actually physically already met us. You just don't remember. Physically. 

**Participant 2:** Physically? Not physically? 

**Bashar:** Physically. Okay, not in dreams. Do you remember when we talked about encountering the race we called the FuKEI? Yes. And how their special quality was that as long as you were talking to them and facing them everything seemed normal, but as soon as you turned away you completely forgot you had had that conversation with them at all? Yes. Well, we have learned a thing or two from them. And so part of the idea of slowly forming contact with all of you is that we are using that technique to actually appear to some of you physically, but then allow you to forget so that it doesn't interfere with your normal life. But at the same time it's always there within your consciousness that you actually already met us. So the more you start to remember that you have already met us, or you allow your imagination to play with the fact that you've actually already met us, the sooner you will remember you have met us, and the sooner you will create the appropriate state in which to meet us again without forgetting. Because it's all happened. 


Let a picture unwind if you wish to use the word imagine or pretend an actual encounter where you really have met us face to face. Imagine it. It doesn't matter if it's absolutely literally accurate according to how it actually did happen. Use that as a symbol to garner the energy of the encounter. And as soon as you start playing with that, little by little at a time, in those imaginary scenarios when you imagine them in a relaxed state, little bits of them will start to come to life.

Little bits of those pictures in your mind, those encounters, as they play out in your imagination, will suddenly take on a life of their own. For example, you might suddenly see an image of us turn and look at you in a way you didn't imagine. And you will suddenly recognize that you're actually remembering part of the actual encounter. It will have a realistic quality to it, a lucid quality to it. If you're a little bit taken aback by that at the moment, it's all right, because it may appear that suddenly your own imagination is not under your control. But it is. It's just that you were allowing bits and pieces of that recollection to come to life again. And suddenly the reality will supersede whatever symbol you've created in your imagination. No matter how realistic it may appear, it will take on a dimensional quality of actual life. And in that snippet, in that moment, in that fraction of an instant, you will see the true life in our eyes and you will know that the encounter was real. And the more you do that, the more real it will become, until such time as there is no difference between what is unfolding in your imagination and suddenly... suddenly out of that state, out of that imagining, one day you will blink and think you're coming out of your imagination, but we will still be standing in front of you. And you will realize we have arrived. I see now. 

**Bashar:** I will add one more bit of information we have not been allowed to share with you until now. 

As we have said, we will not be the first hybrid species to interact with you openly. 

The first will be those that are more representative of the immediate time frame closer to yours, that represents the creation of the hybrid children from your own genetics, your own family coming back. And we have mentioned that some of the sightings you have had, such as the one known as the Phoenix Lights, are the ships of the hybrid species that will be the ones to make first open contact with you. Some of this information about them will appear in the story we're going to tell you after the break.

**Participant 3:** Hello Bashar, and to you good day. Uh, I would like to talk a little bit about what you said before. Thank you very much for this sharing. Is it... um, when I settle myself, identify myself not as any kind of physical or psychological form, but a field of consciousness? Yes. 

**Bashar:** It's uh... doesn't matter what kind of experience. No, in fact it doesn't even require that when you say *I am*, it doesn't even require any kind of representation to go along with it at all. So yes, think just this field and that's it. It doesn't matter. You're not even necessarily a field. You don't even have to think of yourself as a field of consciousness. You are literally the zero point. *I am.* It doesn't even have to be represented as a field. A field is a secondary manifestation. Zero point doesn't experience itself as a manifestation of anything other than its own existence. So in a sense, it's closer... as close as you can come to the concept of non-existence, because you cannot become non-existent. But it's as close as you can get within existence. It is the very zero moment of existence itself, the very essence of existence itself, the *I am* realization. 



**Participant 3:** You told that in spirit you have... you can have some kind of individual... 


**Bashar:** Yes, of course conscious existence. 

**Participant 3:** So is it individuality in a sense of zero point, or it's something different? 
**Bashar:** No, it's something different. You can have more access in that sense, more easily without the space-time construct, to the zero point experience. But you can also very easily manipulate and make malleable your own identity in a variety of ways. It's that you can still have identity, but your identity is much more flexible than you allow for in physical reality. Does that make sense? 
**Participant 3:** Yes. Thank you.

**Participant 4:** Hello Bashar and to you good day. In listening to your description of holographic images, um, I would very much appreciate a feedback or any sort of giving of information that you could lend to me in helping me to at this point in my life determine the pivotal nature of where I am taking my set of gifts and talents, which I have been developing, which are what I feel very closely connected with: children, with music, with dance. 
**Bashar:** All right. And these things are representative of your passions? Yes. Indeed. And thus then automatically by definition obviously representative of your true nature. Yes. So then where in your imagination do you wish to take them? How in your imagination do you wish to express them? How in your imagination do you see yourself expressing these things? 
**Participant 4:** I see myself um... allowing those who I contact to become more and more of themselves and to become more and more transformed. 
**Bashar:** So what do you see yourself doing that would allow them the opportunity to choose to allow themselves to become more and more of themselves? What do you actually describe and define as the behavior, the actual actions you see yourself doing in your imagination that will allow others to be able to do this? 
**Participant 4:** I see myself um throwing up my hands with children, dancing, freely expressing joy. And um, I see video documentation. 
**Bashar:** All right. Are these things you have begun to actually do? Um, in certain senses, are there ways in which you would like to do them more passionately, more fully, more creatively? 
**Participant 4:** Absolutely. 
**Bashar:** Will you do them? Is there anything stopping you from doing them? 
**Participant 4:** I don't think there is anything stopping me. I would just um... I think it's a matter of development. A matter of development. 
**Bashar:** Meant which means what? Um, which means that um, little by little I think... 
**Bashar:** How little? I think that's up to me, I guess. 
**Bashar:** Yes. It can be this little. It can be this little. It can be this little. Can be this little. Be this little. Or it can be this big. It's up to you. Completely up to you, based on your ability to believe what you are ready to process, what you are ready to see, what you are ready to learn, what you are ready to know about yourself. Which brings us to another aspect of knowing. Because when you come from a state of knowing and you look at all the situations in your life from a state of knowing, you're going to know a lot more about yourself as well. Being willing to let it be all right to know a lot more about yourself and see the illusions you have been creating for yourself is part and parcel of your ability to use knowingness effectively. So when you go through your process little by little, lot by lot, however you choose to develop, you can then take to heart that what your state of knowingness brings you about yourself is also equally important for you to achieve even greater states of knowing. You follow? 
**Participant 4:** I do. 
**Bashar:** But don't hesitate. Do what you see in your imagination as best as your belief system will allow, because that's the only way you're going to be that person. Is by copying her. Copying the her you see in your imagination, doing the things you say you would like to do as passionately as you see her doing them. Do them that way. That's what she's for. To show you how to be that person. That's what your imaginations are for. To show you how to be the person you imagine you would like to be. All you have to do is behave like that person in all the circumstances of your life that you see her behaving that way in. Be like her. Be like him. Then you will be her. You will be him. And you will have her life, his life. Make sense? 
**Participant 4:** Yes. Does this help you? 
**Bashar:** Yes. Thank you. Thank you very much. Happy dancing.

**Participant 5:** Ah, thank you. I don't want to hit you. Hi Bashar and good day to you. Um, I have a two-parter. And I know that part two is appropriate, I know it. Um, part one is a dream that I was awakened from this morning with a thunderous bang outside. 
**Bashar:** Thunder bang? Right. All right. 
**Participant 5:** And in the physical there was a physical event going on that awoke me from this dream. And the dream was um... in the dream you know we had the Tonga fires recently. 
**Bashar:** All right, we understand. Yes. 
**Participant 5:** Um, I had to load the car with everything that was important to me and wait to see if we had to evacuate. And we didn't. And so then I unloaded the car and everything's fine. So in the dream I dreamed that I'm living in a city. By the way, everything's fine anyway. Right? Go ahead. 
**Participant 5:** Thank you. Um, in the dream I'm living in a city and I look out... instead of in the woods where I really live. Yes. And I'm looking out the window and the city is a blaze. And there's a bridge and I'm seeing, "Oh my God, it's really time to get out now." Right. And there's no time to pack the car with everything I love. Yes. And so I... and I'm very calm. And I just go, "Oh, okay, I'll just pack it with the doggy toys." 
**Bashar:** Oh, all right. 
**Participant 5:** Two of each. 
**Bashar:** Two of each? 
**Participant 5:** Two of each. Right. So now you have your own little ark of doggy toys. 
**Participant 5:** I have my own little... and only one dog, but he gets two of each of his style of toy. 
**Bashar:** Yes. 
**Participant 5:** So I think that's... but there are two dogs. Yes. And I thought, where did that dog come from? Cuz I only have one dog. 
**Bashar:** Yes. Where did that dog come from? Where did that dog come from? I don't know. Are you going to tell me? 
**Participant 5:** You're serious? 
**Bashar:** Oh, oh, no. Of course. Of course. People think I'm a dog sometimes because I love them so much. I think like them. I totally get. And it's representative of your serious connection. 
**Participant 5:** Of course. Thank you. Oh my goodness, that makes a lot of sense. Okay. So now we'll go to part two. Oh, part two. All right. Okay. I might get real emotional on this. I just... prepared. 
**Bashar:** Have you been fake emotional up to now? 
**Participant 5:** No, now you're going to get real emotional. 
**Bashar:** Oh, oh, oh. No, I'm... I mean, yes, I understand. I'm vol-wise. Okay. No, no, no. Thank you. 
**Participant 5:** Throwing you doggy toys. Okay, um, back when the big fire happened from Malibu and was rushing towards Tonga, yes, um, we had to evacuate with all of our animals and be outside of the canyon for 3 days, watching TV, not knowing if our house was okay. So we're sitting and we're a nervous wreck. I'm absolutely petrified. My stomach is turning inside out. I've never been so scared in my life. 
**Bashar:** Oh, all right. How went deep? 
**Participant 5:** It went deep. Yeah. So then all of a sudden we're watching TV and I see the picture on the screen is the view outside my window. And I go, "Oh look, there's my house." Yeah, there it is. It's a hillside that I meditate on, the rocks on that hillside. Yes, the blaze was on the hillside exactly next to it, about I was guessing 10 to 15 fire seconds as the fire was moving away. Yes. And time of moment of reckoning, right? Yes. Shock. I hear a voice inside my head say, "Say no to the fire." I'm thinking right? Yes. And it's my unseen friends. And I'm going, "That's totally stupid." And then the next thing... stupid unseen friends. No, no, no. It was the thought that I thought was... I doggy toys! Doggy toys! Thank you! Thank you! 
**Bashar:** Okay, okay, okay. 
**Participant 5:** So then I'm thinking, well, what other choice do I have? You know, we've already gone through two seconds with that thought. Yes. And so I thought, okay, well okay. And so I try to... I try to say no, and nothing comes out. There's no... nothing. My vocal cords work? 
**Bashar:** Oh, right. 
**Participant 5:** So then I try again and nothing comes out. I try again and there's like this this gross little squeak kind of comes out. And I'm trying and I'm trying and I'm really giving it everything I've got to say no to the fire. And finally a little "no" comes out. And then a bigger "no" comes out. And then "no you son of a..." "No!" starts screaming, screaming, screaming coming out. The girl next to me screaming the same thing. She's also a channel. And we're screaming and screaming and screaming. And all of a sudden... yes. The energy... it was like we were in the middle of a hurricane and it was blasting and blasting and blasting. And all of a sudden everything went totally calm. Yes. Instant. 
**Bashar:** Exactly. That's exactly what we felt. We looked at each other like, "What the hell just happened? What the heaven just happened?" And the picture had changed from the screen so we couldn't tell in physical reality what happened. Right. But we... yes. To feel that that meant it was everything was okay. And that... and when we got home 3 days later, yes, they had stopped the fire exactly there. Exactly. 
**Participant 5:** So now this has been a really big event in my life. And when I try to share it with people they get a little overwhelmed. I see. But I think this is the right place to talk about this because obviously... 
**Bashar:** Because obviously there was some big time synchronicity going on there. Oh, yes. And it sounds like your invisible friends threw you a bone. Well, it does, doesn't it? Yes. 
**Participant 5:** And not... it was a life-changing, reality-shattering, life-changing. Yes. Which means you are not the same person. 
**Bashar:** I have never been the same reality at all. 
**Participant 5:** So what actually happened? Okay, now here's here's here's here's what I... what I came up with. Yes. And with some help from Torah came up with. But she didn't give me the whole... he didn't give me the whole... 
**Bashar:** Understood. Okay. Because there's this outside reality occurring there is... oh, well, I'm not going to be able to get through this without you bumping me. Are you? I... okay. All right. Do you want me to relax the leash a little bit? A tab? Yes. All right. Go ahead. Run around. Chase your tail for a while. Oh, no, I can't believe you're doing this to me. Okay. Where was I? Okay. What... why... I've always cared more about dogs than people. I mean, I just... 
**Bashar:** May I ask you a question? To see the dogs? Yes. What's the difference? What's the difference? 
**Participant 5:** Yes, I don't know. They're so... the big puppy dog eyes, they just get me. They just just get me. 
**Bashar:** What's the difference? All right, we'll go on with your... okay. That's another time. Um, okay, so I'm... when I talked to Torah about about a week later after the fires, I said this is what happened, what do you think? He said, "Well, you didn't stop the fire with your anger, Victoria. Yes, you stopped the fire with your love." And I went, "Yeah, I can see that." That the love was under the anger. Okay. And then... and then I was thinking later, yes. And I thought, you know, it also felt that like there was kind of a divine intervention in some way. 
**Bashar:** Well, that's what... that's what I wanted to clarify. Because that... I do, you know, what happened based on what we have talked about about the nature of the structure of existence. Do you understand what obviously happened? I already just gave you a clue. You're not the same person. Not in the same reality. 
**Participant 5:** I changed that reality because I chose. 
**Bashar:** No, you didn't change the reality. You shifted to another one representative of your preferential state of being. You tunneled through with your energy. That "eye of the storm" feeling was literally you tunneling through, shifting your frequency from one reality to another that simultaneously coexist. Parallel reality. One reality in which the fire swept through that area taking everything with it. Another in which the fire stops at that point. You shifted to the reality in which the fire stops. 
**Participant 5:** So I didn't stop it, I just shifted realities. 
**Bashar:** Can't stop it. It's already existing in every possible configuration that it can. It's not about changing the outer reality because there isn't one. It's about changing the inner reality and experiencing the result reflected back to you of the new reality you have taken yourself to. So all that emotion that was going on in me, that was the turmoil and the terrified-ness of the three days, yes. And the trying to then access my vocal cords and having such difficulty doing that, yes. Was a physical part of shifting this? Yes. Yes. Cool. Remember we have talked about the idea that often times shifting from one dimension to another will actually experience a little bit of what you might call temporary paralysis, because you're attempting to still work in one dimension when you're no longer there. So as soon as you hit the eye of the storm, you were free in that sense. You had made the shift. You were now working in a new dimension, a new parallel reality, where you had finally let go of all the things that belonged in the old reality that no longer work. And then you could speak. 
**Participant 5:** And then the experience of the fires got less each time. Yes. Even in the dream, in the dream state, it got less, less, less. Even though it... 
**Bashar:** In that direction that can be one result, yes. But then it has more to it than that. It's not just fires. It's... it's everything. But that's your focus. That's what you're using as your transformational crucible symbol, which is what fire is. Right. Does this help? 
**Participant 5:** Yeah. Are you proud that you have arrived at this realization? 
**Bashar:** Proud? Oh, that's an interesting word. Um, it's all right. I'm not going to put a negative spin on it. Okay. Am I proud? 
**Participant 5:** Do you feel good and appropriate that you have arrived? 
**Bashar:** Oh, I feel ecstatic. 
**Participant 5:** Ecstatic too. But proud threw me a little bit. 
**Bashar:** All right. Why? 
**Participant 5:** Yes, because I'm kind of thinking... been taught that proud is not really a good emotion to have. 
**Bashar:** I see. You think it comes with arrogance and negative ego? Yeah, it can. Yeah. It doesn't have to. Right. Pride in the positive sense can also simply be the recognition of your own beauty. You understand? The recognition of beauty. You understand the recognition of your belonging to all that is. Oh, thank you. That you acknowledge and accept and own yourself completely. It can be that too, without the negative... without the negative idea. 
**Participant 5:** Yeah. Thank you. Cuz I have been willing to let myself do that because of that... 
**Bashar:** Are you willing to let yourself do that now? 
**Participant 5:** Oh yeah. Oh yeah. I'll work on it. Yeah. 
**Bashar:** Then has this helped? 
**Participant 5:** Yes, so much. Thank you. 
**Bashar:** Then you may please take a bow. In your imagination. Well, you can say it however you wish. Bow. Wow.

**Participant 6:** What is your present time frame? 
**Bashar:** 12:00. We have whatever time we say we have. Oh. Yes. You may continue briefly. 
**Participant 6:** Thank you Bashar. Thank you for the motion with the dot and the meditation this morning. It really shifted me or allowed me to shift rather dramatically from where I've been stuck for the last few years or allowed myself to be. Thank you. Uh, and uh really remember where I was and um how I could move forward. All right. And I have a question. Yes. I hope that um you can give me some insight as to the numbers. Last night during the lottery I was drawn number 3 of 10. Okay. And my parking ticket, the numerical value on the number on the ticket was 2011-020. All right. And so there's two 20s that keep representing themselves and I have these numbers represented all the time synchronistically. Is this a positive synchronicity? 
**Bashar:** Do you want it to be? 
**Participant 6:** I do. 
**Bashar:** Well then it is. Okay. 
**Participant 6:** My question is um... this session has really helped me to shift. Do you feel that um it could be... a copy of it could be received positively by the individual known to you as Dawn? 
**Bashar:** A copy of it could be received positively? Yeah. There is always a positive way to do anything. Okay. The individuals must simply assess for themselves what methodology represents the idea of the expression of positive reality for them. Right. 
**Participant 6:** But I would be sending it unconditionally. But um, do you perceive that it would be received? 
**Bashar:** We cannot make that determination by the individual. 
**Participant 6:** Okay. Okay. Thank you. I really just... I mean it's been absolutely amazing this morning. Thank you. 
**Bashar:** All right. Thank you. Are you still exploring democracy? 
**Participant 6:** Absolutely. Did you find the difference between democracy and republic? 
**Participant 6:** Uh, no, not as of yet. Shall I help? 
**Participant 6:** Please. 
**Bashar:** A democracy is that which allows for an unlimited majority to rule, but absolutely provides no basis for the protection of individual or minority rights. A republic allows there to be a democratic process of voting, but through a constitution imposes controls on the majority to allow for individual and minority rights. Now which do you prefer? Honestly? 
**Participant 6:** I think I prefer true democracy. 
**Bashar:** I have just told you the difference. Right. So you are saying that you are in favor of an unlimited majority with absolutely no regard for individual or minority rights? 
**Participant 6:** Yes. Why? Because the will of the people should be the will of the planet. 
**Bashar:** But you see, the idea is the will of the people are expressed in a constitution, not in a majority system. 
**Participant 6:** Well, if the Constitution were upheld then that might make sense. But since the Constitution isn't upheld under the Republic, then the Republic isn't working. The Republic doesn't work when it is replaced by a pure majority democracy, and that's what has happened. 
**Bashar:** No. Because if we were... if our system were working as a democracy, the situations that we're in right now we wouldn't be in, because it's not the will of the majority. The situation however that you are missing is that the structure, the form of government called a democracy is what allows for the continuation of what you don't want. The form of government called the Republic is the only way to bring to light how the Republic has been misrepresented. You cannot, as your Einstein said, solve a problem from the same level in which the problem was created. That makes a lot of sense on a lot of levels to me right now. It really does. 
**Bashar:** It's really... do a little bit more of your own research and you will see that just because there may be corruption in a republic that allows there to be a misrepresentation, doesn't mean that you abandon the idea itself. It simply means that you need to educate people to go back to it, which a democracy will not allow you to do. So do some more research, you will see. 
**Participant 6:** Thank you. Thank you.

**Participant 7:** Hello and good day Bashar, and to you good day. Thank you. Um, I just want to tell my experience and see what you speak up and bold so that all may hear what you have to share. During about in 2004, yes, I think I was in Baton Rouge, Louisiana then. 
**Bashar:** You think? No, I... I wasn't. All right. You were on route? No, I wasn't on route. I was at work actually. 
**Bashar:** You were at work. Yeah. All right. 
**Participant 7:** And um, I had an experience where out of the nothingness this pure intelligence came out. I can't describe it. All I say it was a pure absolute consciousness. 
**Bashar:** And what was the effect of this experience? 
**Participant 7:** Well, I noticed that my eye... myself inside of it. Well, my... or my "I am" presence. It was like me looking back at myself. 
**Bashar:** Yes. But it was much greater than me. 
**Participant 7:** Yes. Because you were in touch with more of the all that is. And I just want to... was there a reason why I experienced that? 
**Bashar:** No whatsoever. Are you exploring the idea of the expansion of consciousness? 
**Participant 7:** Yes, I am. 
**Bashar:** Wouldn't that be reason enough to have that kind of an experience as part of that exploration? 
**Participant 7:** Yes. You would. 
**Bashar:** Well, does it have to be more complicated than that? 
**Participant 7:** No. 
**Bashar:** Is that sufficient? 
**Participant 7:** Yes. Yes. Are you sure? 
**Bashar:** Yes. All right. Does it feel good? 
**Participant 7:** It feels really good. 
**Bashar:** Yeah. All right. Do you want to expand some more? 
**Participant 7:** Oh yes, I would. 
**Bashar:** Well then you can expect to have more experiences, can't you? 
**Participant 7:** Yes, of course. 
**Bashar:** Does that feel good too? 
**Participant 7:** Yes, it does. 
**Bashar:** All right. Does this help? 
**Participant 7:** Yes, it does a lot. Is there anything else you wanted to talk about? 
**Participant 7:** Um, yes. One more thing about the photon belt. Yes. Um, do you know when exactly our solar system is going to... 
**Bashar:** It's not really the kind of phenomenon that many of your people think it is. It's simply the leading edge of the collective consciousness wave that represents the crossing of a threshold, expressed in electromagnetic terms in your physical reality. Do you understand? You're crossing through it now. 2012 represents the threshold point of critical mass. 
**Participant 7:** Oh, I see. Okay. Does that help? 
**Participant 7:** Yes. So where are we in just that? 
**Bashar:** Okay, I understand. It's the leading edge of the collective consciousness that desires a shift. And thus then critical mass will be crossed in 2012, where the electromagnetic energy will express itself in a more accelerated way on your planet in a variety of phenomenologies. Some of which can be the idea of more positive accelerated ideas being able to come to the forefront of manifestation if there is harmonious behavior behind them. Does that help? 
**Participant 7:** Yes, it does. 
**Bashar:** Well, thank you. Thank you.

### **Break & Exercise: Five Things You Know**

**Bashar:** 
We will now at this time suggest that you take your refreshment break. At the same time, you will also be playing a little game. So while you take your refreshment break, write down at least five things you absolutely know for a fact, without question. Absolutely without question. Five things you know for a fact. You can start with *I am*. I'll let you cheat a little bit. But at least five things. Ten if you wish. But five things you absolutely don't question that you know, that come from a state of knowingness. And it can be anything. It can be "I absolutely know my dog loves me." As long as it's something you absolutely know without question. At least five. That is your assignment during your refreshment break. We will discuss some of those when we resume contact. Enjoy. We will resume contact in one and a half of your hours. Good day.

*(After the break)*

**Bashar:** 
How's it going? Or say, allow us to continue this transmission. How are you all? As you all have an enjoyable refreshment period? All right. Let us begin by saying that there once was a girl who was sewing some seeds that then began growing on a nearby hill that gave her her fill of knowing that caused her great glowing knowingness. Did you write down the five things that you know? Is there anyone who would like to begin sharing? All right. What do you know for sure? Begin. What do you know for certain? 

**Participant 8:** I know that there is a connection to Dawn which I cannot... beyond what I can see. 
**Bashar:** All right. Number one. Number two. 
**Participant 8:** Number two, I know that telepathy and deep nonverbal communication exists within me and some of those people and birds to which I interact. 
**Bashar:** All right. Number three. 
**Participant 8:** Number three, I know that I am all right. 
**Bashar:** Anything else? 
**Participant 8:** Yes. I know that something is happening with regard to manifestations of numbers and names. 
**Bashar:** All right. And I don't know... uhh, I did not ask you what you... me. Okay. I do know that... I do know that. Right. What else do you know? 
**Participant 8:** I know that which I have doubts of becomes more transparent when interacting with Bashar. 
**Bashar:** All right. All that said, if that is what you know, all else at this moment is supposition. The idea is to relax the supposition and stay in the state of your knowing, and allow whatever needs to reveal itself to you about what you know to simply reveal itself in whatever way it chooses to do so. Because however it does so will then, as you know, be a reflection of that knowing state, and will not have to be guessed at for what it is, or what it represents, or what it reflects to you. When you stick simply, first and foremost, with what you know, and take the guesswork out of it, and do not ponder what you don't know, you can then be assured. You can then also know that whatever represents itself to you, whatever manifests to you, whatever is reflected to you, will be a product of that knowing state. Even if it comes in a form you did not expect or imagine would happen. To drop the expectation sufficiently where you can allow the knowing state to really show you what you need to know, and by elimination reveal what you don't need to know at that moment, will allow you greater clarity in every moment of your life. Thank you. Next person to share what you know. 

**Participant 9:** No. Next person to share what you know. I'll... all right. One second has passed. Okay. I know I am a talented writer. 
**Bashar:** All right. 
**Participant 9:** I know I have created a wonderful organization. 
**Bashar:** All right. 
**Participant 9:** I know I have people who love me in my life. 
**Bashar:** All right. 
**Participant 9:** I know I am a loving person. 
**Bashar:** All right. 
**Participant 9:** And I know that I impact many people. 
**Bashar:** No. Remember what we said about impact? Can you remind me please? 
**Participant 9:** Yes. You impact everyone. This is true. But remember that the idea of what you do doesn't cause the impact, it only reveals it. 
**Bashar:** All right. Remember? Yes. All right. Thank you. You all already have all the impact you will ever have. What you do by following your joy does not create more impact, it reveals the impact you're already having. 
**Participant 9:** Then I can rephrase that to say I... I know that I have the realization, yes, that I am impacting. 
**Bashar:** Yes. It is all right for you to say it the way you said it, as long as you realize how it is meant. Yes. Structurally. Yes. Stay again in those states of knowing. All else that is not revealed in that state does not need to be known at this moment. Even if I'm getting the reflection back from people that I have impacted them, does... isn't that true that a revelation of your impact? 
**Participant 9:** Okay. It is not that the thing you did caused it. The thing you did revealed it. And they are simply reflecting the revelation. 
**Bashar:** We are discussing the difference, which may at times seem to be a fine line, but isn't. We're discussing the difference between falling into the illusion that you need to do something to impact the world, and living in the realization that you already all impact the world. And that by following your joy you are simply uncovering and revealing that impact, as opposed to having to do something special in order to cause the impact. So what's being reflected to you is simply the revelation of impact you already have, just by the very fact of your existence. 
**Participant 9:** Then I'll rephrase that to say that I know that I'm following my joy. 
**Bashar:** Thank you. Thank you. Bashar, who else would like to share what they know for certain? 

**Participant 10:** Hi Bashar, and do you good day. Um, after trying this experiment, something interesting came to me. Everything that I thought I knew or know, I could contradict. Very good. 
**Bashar:** And so what do you actually know for certain? 
**Participant 10:** For certain? That I don't know. 
**Bashar:** Jack. Who's that? You don't know Jack either? But I did not ask you what you don't know. No. I... you know, um, you do know at least the few things we discussed this day, and I said you could use them on your list if you wished to. You do know that you exist? 
**Participant 10:** Maybe I'm getting too esoteric and I probably am. 
**Bashar:** Maybe you are. But you know, do you know that you exist? 
**Participant 10:** Of course you do. It feels like I... I think I am. 
**Bashar:** You do. Because if you can think, you do. Otherwise you wouldn't be able to think that you do. Correct? Do you not see the simple logic? 
**Participant 10:** Yeah, I mean, I do at one level for sure. 
**Bashar:** There is no other level. Here. That's the point. And that's where you get too esoteric. You think there are more levels and there's more complexity than there is. There isn't. Do you exist? Yes or no. There is no other answer. And "no" is not possible as an answer. 
**Participant 10:** Then I'm getting way too esoteric. 
**Bashar:** Yes. Yes. I... so that's another thing you know. You know you don't get all French with me. We... okay. I... yeah, I... would you like to simply take time to make a new list? 
**Participant 10:** Sure. Attempting it from a less esoteric place. I know I have feeling. 
**Bashar:** All right. You see how simple that is? 
**Participant 10:** And I know I have an experience that I'm becoming more familiar with of this invisibility I spoke yesterday. 
**Bashar:** All right. You see? Knowing statements are simple statements. They are not complicated. They are simple statements. So maybe what it is, is it's something where I... I know it for myself, but I can't prove it to anybody else. 
**Bashar:** That is not a criteria, right? And maybe that's what I was thinking. Because you can't prove anything to anyone else anyway. Anyway, right? Okay. You can't even prove you exist to anyone else. 
**Participant 10:** I know. That's exactly... that's the discussion I had. 
**Bashar:** But that's not the question. I only asked you what you knew, not what you felt you had to prove. Yep. And that's very revealing. 
**Participant 10:** I got it. And now you know that about yourself. 
**Participant 10:** I got it. Thank you.

### **Q&A Session - Part 2**

**Bashar:** 
Let us for a moment shift to the idea of what you may call the regular questions. We will come back to what you know. 

**Participant 11:** El Bashar and good day to you. Greetings. First thing I'm going to do is um give you my list. I actually don't have five things on my list. 
**Bashar:** All right. 
**Participant 11:** I only have three things. 
**Bashar:** All right. 
**Participant 11:** I know that I exist. Yes. I know what I observe. I know what I feel. Yes. Anything else is just a detail of one of those three. 
**Bashar:** That's four things. No. I'm just speculating that last one. It's still something you know. I know I'm kidding. All right. Okay. Now to the question that I want to ask. You've mentioned the subject of time this weekend several times and I want to revisit the question that was asked last night about the concept of frequency and the fact that it is a function of time. Yes. And I want to get into some more technical detail about that. All right. Now I've been aware for 30 some odd years that our experience of physical reality is a sequential focusing of our attention on a sequence of different universes. If I'm understanding correctly... 
**Bashar:** Very much in the way that sense. Yeah. In the way that um, motion picture film is a sequence of still frames. This is of course all still an analogy, but it will do as a representative one with regard to the third dimensional space-time matrix. Okay. And I am speaking specifically of a physical reality. 
**Bashar:** Yes. I know. And within this context, it would mean that within the idea of an infinitude of different universes and different realities and different dimensions, is the idea that when we experience movement, yes, what we are actually experiencing is instantaneous shifts from one physical reality, from one dimension to another one that is very, very close in structure. Yes. And going through a whole series of these, just like a series of frames in a motion picture. Correct. Gives the illusion of motion. Yes. And that that motion gives the illusion of time. Yes. Because we do it at a very deliberate pace for the most part. Especially when we have a clock that is measuring this. That movement of the clock really establishes the standard of time. Yes. Okay. So I'm correcting my understanding that each of these frames of physical reality is essentially static. Yes. Okay. And this gets back to the change and no change idea that we were talking about earlier. Yes. Everything is change, but there is no change. Correct. Okay. So each of these physical realities is static. Yes. And now let's bring in the idea of frequency. Yes. Frequency is vibrations per unit of time. Yes. But time is the illusion of motion, which is a shifting from one dimension to the next. And I'm wondering exactly how frequency relates to that shifting from one dimension. 
**Bashar:** The frequency that you create in your consciousness when you create the illusion of time is what determines exactly which frames fall into the plot that give you your sense of continuity. Does that make sense? 
**Participant 11:** I didn't totally get it. 
**Bashar:** All right. The idea is that you create in your consciousness the illusion of time by creating the concept of frequency. Yeah. In doing so, once you have created that, it then determines which of the static sequence of parallel realities you actually experience as your continuity of motion. Because let's just say again, even though I understand there may be shortcomings in third dimensional language to express this, let's say you choose to operate on a certain frequency within your consciousness. Okay. By establishing that frequency, by setting up that illusion of time and frequency, you might choose every third frame, or every second frame, or every fifth frame as your expression of change in space. Okay. So the frequency at which you operate determines exactly how you experience the idea of the continuity of motion. Okay. Which frames are represented in that sense. Okay. So with a higher frequency, be skipping of more frames? 
**Participant 11:** Yes. 
**Bashar:** Okay. But in... but really there's not really a skipping of frames. It's just not really that those frames that you're quote-unquote skipping just aren't part of that motion picture of your existence. Okay. Now let's get into the idea of frequency of nonphysical beings. Yes. Because I understand that they also experience or express a frequency to some degree. Yes. Okay. But if they are not experiencing or not focused in physical reality? Yes. And we've been talking about frequency of progression of attention on frames in physical reality. Yes. Is there... are there frames of non-physical reality too? 
**Participant 11:** Okay. So they are just of a different quality. Different quality. What would distinguish the quality that they experience from the quality we experience? 
**Bashar:** It would be similar to the analogy perhaps of having double exposures in each frame. So that you can actually focus on one thing or another in any frame. It's not quite so structured, not quite so limited. Okay. Let me bring into this discussion another technological analogy. Yes. Our motion picture frame is... or our motion picture film is a series of frames connected together in a sequence. And you can actually cut these. Yes. But we have now nonlinear editing, an electronic thing. You can put the frames together in any way you want. Yes. And almost set it to go random and they'll pick frames. Yes. And this is also a quality of the frames in non-physical reality. Okay. This is what I'm thinking. What you're describing sounds to me like the non-linear editing approach. So you could say physical reality is more linear based and non-physical reality is more nonlinear based, even though they're both using frames. Okay. So then getting back to the concept of frequency. Yes. Both physicals and non-physicals experience or express the idea of frequency. Yes. The non-physicals at the higher frequency. Yes. I'm getting the idea that means that they are... experiencing the frames of reality at a higher rate? 
**Bashar:** It doesn't always mean that, although they can. What it really is more like is the concept of high definition that now exists in your reality. There's more information per frame that they can access. Okay. And I'm getting that they can probably look at a lot of different frames at the same time. Yes. Okay. Which constitutes the idea of double exposed frames or multiply exposed frames. Yeah. From their point of view. Okay. I was thinking more of more like a bank of television sets. But I... I see how any analogy will work. Okay. I gotta... even then it still implies that there's some kind of... the fact that there's a sequential-ness to it implies that there's kind of a fundamental idea of time that doesn't necessarily... or rather... 
**Bashar:** Yes. I know where you're going. It's not rigid for the non-physicals, but more rigid for the physicals. Yes. Remember that anything, anything aside from the One, must experience some degree of what you're talking about, or it wouldn't be represented as different from the One. 
**Participant 11:** Thank you. That totally clarifies that whole thing. It's just a matter of degree. Yeah. Okay. And in physical reality, at least in our physical reality at this point in time, yes, our time is highly structured and very standardized. Except for people who are wafting out of it and back into it and that kind of thing. 
**Bashar:** That's what the idea of the increase of your frequency is all about. Is you're starting to exist in that quasi-planar reality that is shifting dimensionalities and gives you more access to more information per frame. Okay. Now relating this to your experience in your reality. Yes. I understand that you move around. You may walk from your control chair to the door of your spacecraft. So you are experiencing time also to some degree. 
**Bashar:** Yes. Although we have more facility with allowing it to be more flexible. Yes. I understand. But if you are actually walking from your chair to the door, that is an experience of time. And although in the next instant you may be down on the surface of your planet and then back up two instances later, yes. Uh, there is the sense of time in that there's actual movement and you can observe movement. Yes. People are walking around on your planet. We understand it enough to be able to relate to your sense of time. Yes. Okay. And it is a realm that we ourselves have at least to some degree also come up through. We were in that sense more structured in the beginning of our evolution than we are now. Mhm. Were you ever as structured, or at least standardized, in your experience of time as we are? 
**Bashar:** No. Okay. We were created to be less standardized to begin with. Gotcha. Okay. I believe that answers my question in its entirety. Thank you. Thank you.

**Participant 12:** Hi M. And are you good day? Uh, Jill. I know what I don't want to ask you. Um, Bashar, you... what's this? How you understand about your birthday on 11-11, November 11th? 
**Bashar:** The idea of our time frame overlaps your time frame so that there is a corresponding date that represents my birthday as best this can be translated into your calendar. It's not that we have the same kind of calendar. But we are simply saying that the idea of our reality as it overlaps with yours will create a coincided date that is represented by the date 11-11. 
**Participant 12:** I find that very interesting because my wife and I decided very strongly to get married on 11-11. Yes. And we're having our first anniversary in a couple days on 11-11. 
**Bashar:** Congratulations. Thank you very much. For us, the idea represents something similar to the word in our ancient language *Elely*. *Elely*, which is in that sense a reflective mirror. *Elely*. Yes. *Elely*. The reflection. If you say that backwards it's *Elely*. Yes. Interesting. And so is 11-11 very interesting. 
**Participant 12:** Um, I was at the gym say about six months ago and I was listening to on my iPod to one of your talks. iPod. All right. iPod. Uh, one of your recording devices playing back. Uh, if you guys haven't heard about it up there then I mean it's all over the place over here. Uh. 
**Bashar:** Wow. We have we-pods. Ooh. I like that. I like that. That's good. Oh, I like that a lot. We-pods. So your pods are like really small? Is that... I'm sorry. Anyway. Um. Okay. What I wanted to ask was... um, so I've working out at the gym. And all of a sudden I heard you say on the... on the talk that you've have interacted with us physically. Yes. In some cases and then we've forgotten. Yes. I found myself laughing. I instantaneously went into laughter. Yes. And I don't know why. And I wanted to ask you, have... did you and I actually meet at that instant when I heard that on my iPod? 
**Bashar:** Not as you understand time. Okay. I'm talking about the physical time that we're... yes. I understand what you mean. Not as you mean time. Not at that instant exactly. I see. And to get... because you and I have talked about this before about you, us having met several times in the past. Yes. And me not having any, not even a sense of time loss. Which I hear is common. 
**Bashar:** No. You will have no sense of time loss in this. The meetings take place in a time-suspended arena. Ah. Okay. Have you ever shown up at any one of these gatherings to date? 
**Participant 12:** Yes. Really? Yes. Cool. Whatever temperature you want. Um, several years ago I was actually talking with April and she mentioned that you actually initially talked to us probably 10, 20 years ago about three laws, not four laws. And you have since discovered a fourth law. Did I get that right? 
**Bashar:** We understood the four laws, but it wasn't ready to be applied to our conversations. I see. So you had known about it but it was only appropriate to talk about the first three or whatever the three were. 
**Bashar:** Yes. We had to establish a baseline before before we went into the idea of altering that. I understand. Okay. Good. Okay. That's it for me. Thank you. Sure. Appreciate it. Um, I got some more but I'll let give somebody else a chance. All right. Thank you.

**Participant 13:** Hi Bashar, any of you, good day. Uh, my question is, where does existence come from? 
**Bashar:** Itself? It doesn't come from anywhere. Itself? It doesn't come from anywhere. Your question itself does not fit in the idea that you are asking. Existence does not come from... existence only is. How come there's just not nothing? There is. But even nothing is something. Nothing is different from our perspective than non-existence. Is that what you're actually referring to when you say nothing? 
**Participant 13:** No. I mean, it seems like way back when... some... 
**Bashar:** There is no way back when, except within existence. You may be confused because the idea is that time is subject to existence. Existence is not subject to time. Time is a concept within existence. Existence is not a concept within time. 
**Participant 13:** It... it seems like there had to be some start to it all. 
**Bashar:** I know it seems like that to you. And within existence there are starts and stops, yes. But not to existence itself. How could it ever get created? It didn't. It just is. Creation happens within existence. All the concepts you can possibly imagine about beginnings, creations, starts, and so forth, are concepts within existence. There is no outside to existence. 
**Participant 13:** Is it not possible to imagine with the human mind how the totality of existence... 
**Bashar:** No. Because you cannot imagine non-existence. Try it. I'm trying. You can't. I'm having a hard time. You can't. It's not possible. Understand again, pay attention to the definitions. Non-existence. There could be, by definition, no expression, no experience. Non-existence means no experience whatsoever. So you can't experience it. And especially then, of course, you can't express no experience. The only thing you can express the experience of is existence. There is nothing beyond it, outside of it, before it. It just is. And is not subject to the concepts of outside, beyond, and before. Those are concepts within existence. 
**Participant 13:** So is existence growing and evolving itself? 
**Bashar:** In a sense, within itself. But not as itself. I don't understand. 
**Bashar:** I know. Existence is... it is all that is already. But within itself it can have the experience of growing and expanding and learning and becoming more and more and more infinitely. Nevertheless, even though it's having that experience within itself, it itself is unchanging, because it simply is. 
**Participant 13:** Wow. Does that make sense? 
**Bashar:** Not entirely. I know. But that's all right. Okay. I... I do have a second question. Yes. I'm just curious, uh, what is an average day for you like? Like what do you do all day? 
**Bashar:** Oh, let's see. Breakfast at 9... how do you organize your days? Or how do you... synchronistically? We don't organize. We don't plan. What might an average day... I'm getting there. First of all, I understand how you mean the term. But since we don't sleep anymore, we don't really have beginnings and endings to days anymore at all. And since we're not always on our planet anymore, we don't even necessarily go by things like sunrise and sunset anymore either. However, the idea of the so-called average day for me might be that I will be in contact with several different civilizations, establishing rapport and communications to allow for the continuation of relationships or even the beginning of them. I will also go on exploratory missions within spaceship, sometimes my own scoutcraft, sometimes what you call city ships or motherships, to investigate and explore various regions of the universe or other multiverse dimensionalities. Sometimes I will participate in the expression of art. Sometimes I will participate in the expression of song if it moves me to do so. Sometimes I will interact one-on-one with various beings. Sometimes I will communicate in the way I'm communicating now to all of you with you and others as well. These are some of the typical quote-unquote things that are representative of my passion. 
**Participant 13:** That does sound exciting. 
**Bashar:** I think so. Oh. Oh, wait a minute. I know. So there will be a little bit more of an extension of this idea when we get into our story after your next break. Thank you. Thank you.

**Participant 14:** Hello Bashar, and are you good day. Okay, so I have a question for you that I've been trying to figure out how I want to ask it, so I'm just going to ask as I do. Yes. When I was very little, in my understanding of time in this space and this body now, yes. I remember um an encounter that I had with about three or five beings. And they lifted me up. Yes. To the point of levitation. Yes. And they danced with me. Yes. And spun me. Yes. And I looked down and was very cognizant of the fact that I was not standing on the ground anymore. Yes. And we were laughing and it was really joyful and really fun. And very soon it became really fast and really intense. Yes. And they... the beings began to crush me. Crush in what sense? In the sense that their grip was so tight that it hurt me. All right. Physically? All right. And I asked to them to stop. Yes. Cuz they were hurting me. And they didn't. Yes. And they kept going. Yes. And in that instant it was as if I knew that I was choosing to be open and to experience unconditional love and joy. However, I was so fearful that it was my beginning of my definition of what darkness was. All right. And my inability to express and be respected regarding what was true for me. All right. 
**Bashar:** They did not intend to hurt you. And on whatever level they are capable of expressing it, they would apologize. However, what you didn't understand at that point is that you were being shifted interdimensionally in a certain way. The rate of acceleration was very great in terms of that dimensional shift. They had to hold you very tightly so they wouldn't lose you. You understand? 
**Participant 14:** I think so. 
**Bashar:** So they simply had to hold on to you. They understood it may have caused discomfort, but it would have caused far more discomfort had they let go or even loosened their grip. I understand that. So it wasn't intentional, but it was simply a side effect of experiencing a greater acceleration than anyone anticipated. And they simply had to hold on to you for your dear life, or you would have been lost. So they apologize. It wasn't their intention to harm. 
**Participant 14:** Thank you. All right. So my question in addition to that is, yes, for the majority of my time in this body in this life, yes, that I've chosen... I feel as if I've chosen to be to absorb. I absorb. When I walk into rooms I just... or I'm just in... I just feel like I absorb energy and people and thoughts and emotion. And I almost lose sense of what my true self is and what my true experiences. 
**Bashar:** But what do you want to do with that absorption? How do you want to apply it? How do you want to express it creatively in your life? 
**Participant 14:** I don't know. 
**Bashar:** All right. Well, you can take some time and figure that out. Okay. Because the absorption is important, but the expression is also important. You see, you are a transformer. So absorbing energy is one thing, but you transform it through yourself and then express it in a way that's unique to you. And add your own energy to the mix. Add your own expression, your own creativity to the mix by following your passion. Does that help somewhat? 
**Participant 14:** Yeah. 
**Bashar:** Anywhere else you would like to take this? Is there anything you have to offer more? Is there any way you would specifically like to express your passion that you're not doing? 
**Participant 14:** As a guide? In what sense? To myself and to others. 
**Bashar:** How specifically? How through what methodology? Through what expression? Through what behavior? Channeling? In what way? There are many forms of channeling. I haven't decided which one. There is not one that stands out as more exciting to you than any other. 
**Participant 14:** Movement and water. 
**Bashar:** All right. Then why don't you begin by exploring that without expectation and see where it leads. All right. Okay. Thank you. Have fun. Thank you.

**Participant 15:** Hi Bashar and you good day. I want to tell you one of my absolute NOS. All right. What do you know for sure? NOS. All right. What do you know for sure? 
**Participant 15:** I absolutely know that I have been anticipating this day happily and I want to thank you. And I absolutely know I love you. 
**Bashar:** We absolutely and unconditionally know beyond the shadow of a doubt that we love you as well. 
**Participant 15:** I know. I have a question. 
**Bashar:** Yes. I thought so. Although I'd like to stay in love with you, I will ask this question. Do not necessarily assume that asking the question takes you out of love with us. 
**Participant 15:** Well, it does divert my attention a little bit. 
**Bashar:** Diversion of attention doesn't mean you're out of love. Yes. Okay. There are many forms of expression of love. I do now know this. Thank you. Earlier today the woman discussed her experience with the fire. Yes. So I have a question. Yes. One frame she is watching on TV the hillside close to her home that is burning. Yes. Gets some guidance. Yes. Shifts her attention. Yes. And now is in another reality, yes, so to speak. What happens to the consciousness that was in the reality... where what I'm having trouble with is understanding what happens to the consciousness that was in the reality where it does burn. It's still there. Is that not part of her? 
**Bashar:** Yes, it's part of the oversoul. 
**Participant 15:** Not part of her? Part of the oversoul in the way you mean it? 
**Bashar:** Yes. And I guess somewhere I have this idea that we're supposed to be integrative, so we have all of that. So I don't really understand how we shift our focus from... 
**Bashar:** Do you know them? Sometimes different realities in and of themselves, by definition, represent an integrated state. Okay. So it's not that you have to still have the attributes of the you in the other reality to assume you are integrated. It's that shifting to a more integrated reality can be represented in and of itself by a particular version of you. Does that make sense? 
**Participant 15:** Yes. I guess I still have this idea and maybe I can't understand it. Yes. Is she... is there still a consciousness alive in the place that burns? 
**Bashar:** Yes, of course. Is that not part of her? 
**Participant 15:** It is not part of her? 
**Bashar:** Okay. It's part of the oversoul that gives life to them both. So who is this part that chooses the focus? The oversoul. So the oversoul chooses to have conscious focus awareness somewhere and not put its attention otherwhere. But it still has its attention is everywhere. Okay. The point is however is that for that parallel reality that you are now talking about that she quote-unquote has shifted to, her focus of attention in that reality makes it seem as if the other realities are now subsidiary. Just as you right now make it seem as if any other simultaneous reality is subsidiary. It doesn't mean that there isn't consciousness in all the other versions of you simultaneously. But for you right now in this reality, the definition of you in this reality makes the other reality seem subsidiary. So the definition of her in the reality makes the other ones seem subsidiary. When we talk about the idea of shifting, that is also to some degree an analogy. Okay. Because you all exist everywhere at once. So really, if you want me to be very precise, no real shift has actually occurred per se. It's just that the oversoul is now choosing in a sense to allow that aspect of itself to have an experience that makes it seem as if all other subsidiary selves are in fact not really directly involved anymore. Does this make any sense to you in third-dimensional language? 
**Participant 15:** Yes. So you're really saying that what I experience here is my consciousness is really so overshadowed by this oversoul is picking... in a sense it's overshadowed. It's that you have made an agreement. Right. And that's... and in that agreement you have agreed to experience certain things, a certain definition of that reality. Okay. And in that definition, often times you, because of the way you're used to experiencing reality, will make all other parallel simultaneous realities subsidiary. Now she could have gone into that reality, so to speak, let's say awakened to that point of view also, still very aware, very aware of the one in the other reality simultaneously that did not stop the fire, so to speak. You follow me? That can be done and often actually is done. But because of the way your people have been taught to think about consciousness, often when that's done you call them crazy and insane, or multiple personality disorders. You follow me? Mhm. It's not that you can't be simultaneously aware of more than one reality. It's just that you haven't practiced learning how to integrate them in a way that allows you to make sense of that multiple awareness in each of the realities constructively. Those of you that can do that are not labeled insane. You're labeled genius. Does that make sense? Mhm. Or savant. Does that make sense? 
**Participant 15:** Does this answer the question? 
**Bashar:** Yes. I have an additional question. Oh. Right. You've referenced the oversoul. Oversoul. Let's say in this time and space of my life. Yes. Are there other pieces of my oversoul that I am interacting with here physically? Simultaneous co-incarnation? 
**Bashar:** Yes. Yes. Thank you. Thank you.

**Participant 16:** Good day Bashar and to you good day. Uh, I would like to start with mathematics. Mathematics. Um, I'm very interested in mathematics. Um, I'm very interested in what if mathematics is basic to reality. 
**Bashar:** It depends. And there are some constants, but not everywhere. And of course it can be expressed differently by different civilizations and cultures. The same mathematics can be expressed differently. Of course, for example, what you call in your quantum physics formulas or equations using mathematical symbols that express the idea known as the uncertainty principle or such similar concept might be expressed in our civilization simply by a geometric form rather than an equation of symbols. But follow me? 
**Participant 16:** I follow. But that means that there is a mathematical structure more basic of which these two are models. 
**Bashar:** Yes. Okay. Yes. Um, and also some New Age literature speaks about there being seven levels or 12 dimensions. But the number seven seems particularly significant as there being soul groups being multiples of seven. 
**Bashar:** Well, yes. But remember that while accurate from their perception, some of those hierarchical distinctions, while to some degree representative of different frequency levels, are also distinctly germane to the level that is perceiving them. Other realities might perceive the same concept in a number of different ways. Okay. Because I thought that if if there are seven levels and not eight or nine or whatever, that seems to contradict the idea that all that is is really all that is. 
**Bashar:** This again, the idea of seven levels, as I said, is an arbitrary distinction being made from your reality. It's the way your reality needs to interpret the concept of infinity for itself in a certain way. From the level of all that is, it doesn't necessarily see itself as being separated into seven levels. But it understands that from the Earth perspective, seven levels makes the most sense based on the frequencies and the juxtaposition of geometries and mathematics of energy as you need to express the concept of shifting frequencies. Okay. But it... it also seems that there is a basic physics to reality, to energy, to consciousness. And that seems to imply that because of the nature of energy, some things are possible and some things are not possible. 
**Bashar:** Some things are possible or not possible within any localized reality. But anything you can imagine exists somewhere within infinity, or you could not imagine it. Okay. But that just... it means that if I can imagine it then it exists. 
**Bashar:** It exists somewhere. It may not be pertinent to your local reality. I understand. But my imagination can be limited. Because yes, your imagination may be limited. But anything you are capable of imagining exists. I'm not saying you can imagine everything that is. But I'm saying everything you do imagine does exist somewhere. Okay. But I can imagine that all that is is all that it can be. But not all that all that it can be seems to be... well, maybe it cannot be everything. So maybe it's limited because its nature... 
**Bashar:** All right. But what you have simply now done is imagined a limited all that is within an infinite one. You see? You have created a localized representation within an infinite one. Okay. That's what you've done with your imagination. Yes. Of course you can imagine a limited all that is. And that exists within the infinite one. Okay. Does it also mean that there's no limit to how good you can feel? 
**Bashar:** That is a relatively subjective thing. You could say that there might be various ways in which people interpret the concept of feeling good. That's right. Yeah. So it would depend on a case-by-case basis as to what that individual might mean by "I feel good." In a sense, there is no limit pragmatically to how good you can feel. But there might be certain states of being that you might imagine would be ecstatic states that may not actually be capable of being experienced by your neurological system. Okay. Let's get into the next question. Is that... um, I understand everything is equally valuable. So the end is equally valuable as all that is. 
**Bashar:** Yes. But the localized consciousness is limited, so it cannot for instance choose to experience ecstasy or something like that. 
**Participant 16:** Yes, it can. Okay. Within its own framework, to whatever degree it is capable of experiencing something, it is free to choose to experience that thing. I understand. But with the concept of the oversoul, yes, it seems as if that's the way... that's the life you want. The oversoul experiences everything. 
**Bashar:** And now you are making a value judgment when you say it seems that that's the life you want. You are devaluing the fact that you chose to have this life. 
**Participant 16:** Well, not in an absolute value sense, as that it has value. But in a sense that it is preferable. What I am saying is the reason you chose the life you're living is because at the time you made that choice, this was preferable to you. You just don't remember it's equal in preference to the oversoul's existence. And from that level you knew that. Right now you don't know that. 
**Bashar:** Thank you. Very, very much. Thank you. Is there anyone who would like to share more of what they know? 

**Participant 17:** Hi Bashar and you good day. Um, what do you know for sure? What do I know? Through your teachings and so I just... what do you know? Doesn't matter how you know it. Through me? Through anything? What do you know? 
**Participant 17:** Um, I know that I'm multi-dimensional. 
**Bashar:** All right. 
**Participant 17:** How do you know that? I just know. 
**Bashar:** All right. There's no doubt. There's no question for you at this point in your life. It is an absolute certainty for you. Yes. Thank you. What else do you know? 
**Participant 17:** Um, reality is an illusion. 
**Bashar:** Yeah. The experience of it is real. All right. What else do you know? 
**Participant 17:** I know that I'm consciousness in this human form and with this particular personality. Yes. Um, and that my reality is shaped by my beliefs. All right. And I'm working hard to change this. 
**Bashar:** Um, and then... you know you're working hard? Well, that... right. I know that. All right. With a lot of certainty. All right. Um, and finally, um, recently I know I'm loved unconditionally by all that is. 
**Bashar:** Thank you. Is this state of knowing capable thus then of being applied to other areas of your life where you feel more uncertain? 
**Participant 17:** Yes. 
**Bashar:** All right. You know that too then? Yes. All right. Anything else you want to squeak in there that you know for sure? 
**Participant 17:** Um, not that I can think of right now. 
**Bashar:** Sure. Um, not that I can think of right now. All right. So at this moment you know that you don't know anything else for sure. Correct. That's correct. So that's something else you know. Yes. Thank you. Let's be thorough after all. Okay. Is there something you wish to share in terms of questions? If you wish. Oh, okay. Uh, yes. First of all, I did also um want to thank you of course for the interaction. Send you infinite love. And that every moment spent with you, each and every moment, is a pleasure with you all as well. 
**Bashar:** Yes. Or we wouldn't do it. Thank you. Um, I also wanted to first share that the impact of what you presented earlier in terms of the *I am* message. Yes. Um, because not only did it help with the knowing this, but it helped me to realize the importance of the energy behind words and phrases and symbols and sound and whatnot. It really... thank you. All of you together. *I am. I am.* Just a reminder of how simple it is to be in a knowing state. And it's interesting because there was a time when I couldn't say those words. I was a little hesitant and maybe even a little fearful, like as if I didn't want to reach that point. So yes. Okay. Um, I think these are two quick questions. Going back to the analogy that you used about the matrix of now moments. I really love that analogy because I tend to think of it in that way. Oh, right. So I kind of envision that there's this matrix and you know there's all the possibilities. And just as an example, I'm preparing for an interview for a job. Yes. And I'm say... that in that matrix there's a particular path you know that I've been moving along. And there's going to be one of those moments that's the interview. Yes. And whatever energy I bring into that particular moment... my question is, since I'm interacting with another consciousness, so to speak. 
**Bashar:** Okay. Well, that's... yeah, that's part of it too. Because if we're all one, that's... I'm trying to figure this out. Remember it's this and that, not this or that. You are interacting with another consciousness and you're also interacting with your own only. Okay. Because any other consciousness you interact with, you still have to create your version of in your reality in order to perceive it. Right. Right. So in other words, is it saying that we can kind of pick and choose literally the reality that we want to have? So I can pick that now moment that I want to have in the time of the interview? Gosh, I guess... 
**Bashar:** So I guess that's what we've been saying for oh, 24 of your years. Okay. Yes. Okay. Choose. Choose. Choose. Yes. Choose without but. Now why do you say that? Because we understand that the mechanisms of your personality will often think, "Oh, I can choose for this to come out exactly this way, with this outcome, this consequence, this result." Not understanding that the moment you do that, often what you're doing is actually limiting yourself, judging yourself, shutting the doors to the way in which the manifestation could actually occur in a greater form than you ever imagined. Okay. So go into the moment being the moment, because that's the moment you want to be. Not because of what you think that moment will get you. Okay. Because when you do that, you are doing what? You are conditionalizing infinity. You are putting conditions on infinity. Saying "I only want it to come out this way. If it doesn't come out this way, my life's not working." Okay. And then you take yourself out of the state. The only purpose for being in the state you prefer to be in is to be in the state you prefer to be in. Okay. In... circumstances don't matter. Only your state of being matters. 
**Participant 17:** Very good. Does that help? 
**Bashar:** It certainly does. Thank you. Thank you. And one last question. Yes. Um, this refers to what I'm going to call for the moment the backend part of the mechanism for physical healing. The back end part of the mechanism. The front end is um, recently you described permission slips. And so I understand what you were saying there. And say that a person wants to do some physical healing and they could choose perhaps an allopathic form, or holistic form, say detoxification, or even energy healing. And this is the reason why lead to this question. Yes. So the person's frequency, their belief system will determine which option they choose. Yes. And then you also describing that it's really... you know, all those methods are valid, but it's the power that we put behind our belief and the method that we choose that actually generates the healing. Did I understand that correctly? 
**Bashar:** The idea is that you give off a frequency. Others that are attracted to you pick up on that frequency. They can then decide that if that frequency matches the idea of their perfect ideal state of health, if they then choose to match that frequency, that's what they will experience. Okay. But you are putting out a frequency to allow them to use it however they wish. If for some reason it serves everyone that you would attract a person who adamantly believes they cannot be healed by anyone, and they expose themselves to your frequency and are not healed, they do not heal themselves. Then they get to say, "See, I proved it. My belief stands." And you have helped them reinforce a belief that they have chosen to hold on to by them not allowing themselves to be healed. So you have still served them. Does that make sense? 
**Participant 17:** I... yes, I do understand that. That's also why you don't need to have expectation. Because you don't necessarily need to know what anyone else's agenda is in coming to you. They may come to you to reinforce a belief they simply don't want to give up. But you have still helped them by helping them do what they want to do. Now that may not happen in the majority of cases, but you have to allow for it because that's valid for them. Make sense? Yes. Now what I was referring to is like kind of like the back end of the mechanism. Like with energy healing, if a person believes that that will heal them, yes, and it truly does. What my question is, from that belief to our physical body, which has its own consciousness. I was wondering what that mechanism is. In other words, is it that the power of the belief and the intention actually more or less... I'm using these words loosely... sends instructions to the consciousness of the physical body? 
**Bashar:** That you know it is a form of communication. Yes. It's a pattern of energy that then, if harmonized with, will create certain results. Yes. And since the physical body, or the way we understand it, breaks down to... I'll just say subatomic particles and whatnot. So each one has its own consciousness and intelligence. And because the physical body is integrated, then it all heals together. It works together. Yeah. Okay. Or not, if that serves a purpose. Okay. Now with regard to again the belief system in healing, do you understand that even in what you call your allopathic medicinal methodologies, the most powerful form of healing known is the placebo? 
**Participant 17:** Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 
**Bashar:** In fact, actual drug tests are always measured against the placebo. Because if the drug is even 5% more effective than the placebo, it's considered extremely effective. Because the placebo is so effective. Mhm. Do you understand? Yes. Yes. The belief system of the person is the most effective thing. And your medical doctors know that. And that's why in doing their drug testing, because the placebo effect is actually responsible for such a high percentage of healing. Even if the drug is a little bit better, that's the only criteria they need to say the drug is effective. Because if it's no better than the placebo, it's not effective. Because the placebo is so effective. The belief system is so much more effective. Make sense? 
**Participant 17:** Oh yeah. Yeah. All right. Thank you so much. Thank you. Much love to you. 
**Bashar:** And you as well. All of you. Take a deep breath. Relax. Relax. Take another deep breath. Relax. Relax. And one more time, deep breath in. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Don't let it out. Hold it until you know that if you don't let it out you're going to pass out. Hold it. Hold it. Oh. All right. Let it out. Doesn't that feel good? Why does that feel so good? Not just the oxygen. You're centering yourselves. But also you're letting go. Letting go of a state you know will not serve you. So the idea of entering the state of knowingness will feel like a great sigh of release, because you know that any other state other than that is not the ideal state that serves you. It is not your natural state. It is not the state of your true self. It has been said in your literature, "Know thyself." This is why. What it simply means is take yourself to a place of knowingness. For in that state, not only will you know yourself, not only will you see more clearly all the things, not only will you discern more clearly all the things that are you, but more clearly all the things that are not you. You will know what you are. You will know what you're not. And when you know what you are, you will see, feel, experience more of the connection with the knowing of all that is. That knows you are expressions of the infinite. That knows you are unconditionally loved. That knows your true nature. You know it too. Don't deny it to yourself. You deserve it. Don't deny it to yourself. It is your true essential nature to be in a knowing state. Relax. Relax. Relax. All the things that are not of the knowing state. On a day-to-day, moment-to-moment basis, relax. Do. Relax. Do it. Do it. You will enjoy yourself more if you do. You will enjoy life more if you do. You will enjoy everything more if you do. Let go of the things that are not you. Let go. Of the things you don't know and don't need to know right now. For you will know them when you do need to know them. As the energy on your planet accelerates, as you allow yourself more and more glimpses, more and more experiences, more and more opportunities to experience the knowing state, which is, as we pointed out, as simple, as easy as saying *I am*. The more you allow that knowing state to permeate all of your life, every situation, every circumstance, no matter how seemingly mundane, no matter how seemingly small, doesn't matter. The more you do that, I guarantee you, the more you will suffer when you don't do that. Now if that isn't some incentive, I don't know what is. I do not do it to scare you. I do not say it to make you afraid. We say it to let you know you are truly free to live in that knowing state. And free to live in it freely. And enough to know that you don't need to know everything all at once. Just what you need at that moment. We do not wish you to suffer. You do not wish you to suffer, unless you do. But it's your choice. You don't have to believe us. You don't need to believe us. But you need to decide for yourselves what state you prefer. And you need to decide for yourself that it's easy to create that state. *I am.* The dots on the paper. The higher airplane. That's where you live. That's where you live in that mansion. That gorgeous, beautiful, creative, shining, sparkling mansion. You do not need to live in the squalor of beliefs that do not serve you. If you choose to do so, understand that you're choosing to do so. There are no exceptions. But you don't need to do so. You can be in knowing. You can. Because I have just shown you it's as easy as *I am*. As soon as you say that, as soon as you remember that, you are in a knowing state. There is no reason and no excuse that says I can't create the knowing state, because it is too simple to do so. If you say "I can't, I can't, I can't get to the knowing state," I guarantee you, from this point forward, we won't believe you. Say it out loud. *I am. I am.* It is an absolute fact. You didn't have to repeat that, but thank you for doing so. Shows you are in the moment. Because it's true. It is an absolute fact. If you want to say it out loud, by all means, it's an absolute fact that *I am*. There is absolutely nothing that can contradict this. Nothing exists that can contradict this. If you are, then you are. That's it. Isness is your only quality. It can become nothing else. Isness, the quality itself, can become nothing else. Yes, within creation you can experience becoming many things. But all of them still exhibit isness. They all still exist. You still exist. No matter what you become, you still exist. Existence is your basic quality that can't change. It is the first law. It doesn't change. It is. It is. It is. It is. You are. You are. You are. *I am. I am. I am. I am. I am.* Even if it were possible for you to suddenly not exist at all, you'd never know it. So why bother caring? Why spend time worrying about it? You would never know it had happened. But if you do exist, I guarantee, because all that is guarantees by its very nature, if you exist, there is only now. So you must always exist, because there is only now. There's only now in which to exist. Now. There's only now in which to exist. And if you exist in the only now there is, you always will. Because there's only one now. That's it. So here you are. You're part of the club. Lifetime. Lifetime. Lifetime. Lifetime. To infinity. Membership free of charge forever. Start taking advantage of forever. Start taking advantage of membership privileges. It's up to you. Stay in your knowingness. It's up to you. But now you know it is simplicity itself to be in that state. There is no rationale whatsoever that will make sense anymore that says that state cannot be achieved. Because it is the actual easiest state to achieve, because it's the most basic state to achieve. So start from there. Let it be obvious. And let the obviousness filter into every aspect of your life. And let it be all right to not know what you don't know. That's all it takes. That's all it takes to have absolute serenity in your life on every level. For everything, be in the now. Be in the knowing. Do you think it's an accident that in your language the words "now" and "no" are so close in structure? Be in the now and you will know. Be in knowing and you will always be in the now. Always. It's that simple. What is your time frame? We know you enjoy conferring about time. We will give you an opportunity to do so. You mean before the break? Yeah. Did that make you feel good? Have you come to a consensus now about the difference between time and timing? I was session-agree. I see. So the same event produced two different perceptions. Thank you for being an illustration of our first demonstration. Let us take three more questions. 

### **Q&A Session - Part 3**

**Participant 18:** Bashar, this is a question from a News for the Soul listener. Oh, all right. And it's a compound question. I'm going to put these together. Yes. Says, okay, I can talk the talk, but why is it so hard to walk the walk concerning faith when the chips are down and things aren't going my way? Am I just deluding myself? And please explain where the line is, the limits of what is actually possible through the power of faith or knowing for real in this dimension of reality. 
**Bashar:** To some degree this question has already been answered. The idea simply is that any delusion that exists is the delusion that the negative belief systems hold sway over the positive ones. So when you say the chips are down, turn them up, because you have the ability to do so. It's not deluding yourself to turn them up. But the irony is you don't think you're deluding yourself when you turn them down. The idea is, as we have recently discussed also, yes, of course you live in what might be described as a relatively limited reality. And of course certain things will not be appropo to manifest in your reality. It doesn't mean that there really are limits per se, but there certainly are agreed upon parameters that will make sense according to your local reality. So you will usually abide by them. But you have free reign to go far and wide in choosing anything that represents your creativity and joy. To put it simply, if there is really something you're passionate about in your reality, it really truly represents your true passion in that reality, it would make no sense for you to not be capable of manifesting it in your reality. Therefore, anything you truly passionate about, you probably wouldn't be passionate about if it were not possible to manifest in your reality. 
**Participant 18:** That sounds wonderful. 
**Bashar:** We think so. Oh. Oh. That's great. Well, thanks very much Bashar. You are welcome. Any other questions? 

**Participant 19:** Good afternoon Bashar, and are you good day. Um, when we speak of the common time-space continuum, when you do you speak of it as a three-dimensional continuum of space and time, time not being treated as a fourth dimension? 
**Bashar:** Well, we're just using your colloquial vernacular. We understand that from your scientist point of view there are three dimensions of space and one of time, making you in a sense a fourth-dimensional reality. But we also understand there are many different kinds of terminologies that exist in your reality about dimension and density. And it can to some degree be somewhat confusing. 
**Participant 19:** Understood. Einstein does refer to the fourth dimension as an imaginary dimension of space. Yes. Now, understanding as I thought I had that time and space are inseparable in my experience. Yes. I come across what they call M-Theory. Yes. Which arrives, short version, at an 11th dimensional model. Yes. In which they have 10 dimensional universes floating in an ocean of an 11th dimension of time. Yes. And that sounds to me like we have now made a new kind of time, which is absolute linear, and just like the kind of notion of time that was pre-Einsteinian. And I'm having some desire to put these notions of time together or relate them. 
**Bashar:** I see what your scientists are actually discovering is that there are levels to the concept. We sort of discussed this before when we said that anything outside the One does create some sense of quote-unquote space-time referential positioning. But there are varying degrees of this. There are certain levels of this. And what they have simply come across is they have reached an understanding that there is another level above physical reality where that kind of so-called barrier, arbitrary barrier, also exists. I'll put it another way. We have often said, and this again may seem like an arbitrary representation, but you will understand the analogy, we believe that above a certain frequency level, what you call the speed of light defines the border, so to speak, of your physical space-time reality. But there are things that exist at higher frequencies than that that are not part of your dimensional experience. But even that domain has its own upper limit, beyond which you then recognize you've shifted to yet again another domain, and another domain, and another domain, and another domain. So the theory that your scientists are working with now is simply a mathematical representation of a higher domain's upper limit, where it would once again seem to be the kind of imposition structure that is similar to the kind of imposition structure you experience in your typical third dimensional space-time reality. Is this making any sense? 
**Participant 19:** Oh, yes. All right. So it's not so much that I need to take the physical picture as to understand that this is an expression of a mathematical reaching. Yes. Now um, I have... and I'm going to ask you to critique or whatever this notion. It is my understanding that in a continuum of any number of dimensions, it takes one more to know it. Yes. So that as your Einstein said, you cannot solve a problem from within the state of mind that the problem was created. You cannot see the forest for the trees. You have to be beyond the forest to see the forest. So that if it takes 10 dimensions, for example, for all there is... yeah. Knowing that, that's just an analogy. Yes. All right. Then I would be the 11th dimension contemplating it objectively. Yes. And that is not essentially a sound way to hold the idea. 
**Bashar:** Yes. It is one way to begin to work with those concepts, by always understanding that in order to perceive a concept in its entirety, you actually, so to speak, have to be beyond it. Which automatically implies a bigger reality. Are you suggesting that the assignment of a finite number of dimensions to all that is is... inappropriate? 
**Participant 19:** It is not that is inappropriate. It is appropriate for how you may want to work with certain concepts. But it will never be an accurate representation, because infinity will always trump the finite. Mhm. So whatever I make of that notion is a limitation. 
**Bashar:** Yes. But it may be a very plausible or workable one for what you may need to apply it to. Thank you. Thank you.

**Participant 20:** Hello Bashar and are you good day. I know that I have chosen to suffer this weekend. 
**Bashar:** Oh, all right. And why did you choose that? 
**Participant 20:** I have been experiencing a challenge to my faith. Yes. And this weekend has brought me from despair and anger to hope. And I was listening to what you've been saying and I'm getting closer back to faith. But I was... 
**Bashar:** Are you going beyond faith to knowing as well? 
**Participant 20:** No. And I was wondering if there was anything more that you would like to tell me to bring me to a stronger faith and toward... 
**Bashar:** I am not attempting to bring you to a stronger faith. I'm attempting to bring you beyond faith to knowing. Did you do the *I am* exercise? 
**Participant 20:** I did. 
**Bashar:** Do you understand that when you say *I am* that that's an absolute fact? I do. Then you know it. It's that simple. Did you not believe us when we said it was that simple? 
**Participant 20:** Is that part of the challenge? The challenge for me is when you say circumstances don't matter. Yes. That's my challenge. Explain that. I want to know how I can believe that and demonstrate it. 
**Bashar:** Oh, thank you. We often have said, though we understand how this first sounds in your language, we don't mean it negatively, that the greatest gift creation has given is that life is meaningless. There is no built-in meaning to situations or circumstances. They're just neutral props. I'll put it in a way you are aware to some degree, as we demonstrated earlier, that any given situation can actually produce even opposite results. Yes. Yes. Or opposite perceptions. Yes. Yes. All right. You can look at any situation and you could see a positive outcome, or you could see a negative outcome of the same situation. Yes. Yes. Well, that shows you that no situation's meaning is built-in. It's determined by how you see it. So if you decide that a situation will have a positive effect on you, that's the effect it will have. If you decide it will have a negative effect on you, that's the effect it will have. The situation doesn't come with a built-in parameter that says it's going to affect you positively or negatively. That's in your hands to determine. So nothing has built-in meaning. And therefore that's why we say the circumstances don't actually matter. It's the state of being that matters. Because it's the state of being that allows you to determine what meaning you will assign to those circumstances that are fundamentally neutral. Does that make sense? 
**Participant 20:** But if someone's in harm's way, how can that... how can you look at that in a positive way? 
**Bashar:** All right. Thank you. There is a difference between observing that something is mechanically negative or mechanically positive. Positive being segregative in that sense? The negative being segregative, the positive being integrative. You understand? No. You don't. No. All right. When we talk about positive and negative, we're not talking about subjective good and bad. We're talking about an actual mechanical description of energy. That which is negative in that sense is that which segregates, separates, shall we say, isolates, disconnects, forms experiences of disconnection. That which is positive forms experiences of integration, unification, bonding, oneness. Do you follow that? Yes. All right. Some examples. The idea being that if you operate on a fear-based definitional system, more often than not you will experience more emotions of disconnection and greater fear. Thus you are seeing that the mechanism is simply generating an expanded version of itself by perpetuating more doubt, more disconnection, more fear. Does that make sense? More misalignment within your belief systems from your core. The fear itself is the expression of negatively aligned belief systems. Does that make sense? Yes. So the idea being, when you see somebody operating in a negative way, or when you see a situation that you are saying someone is being harmed in, you can recognize the mechanisms that might be involved may be negatively based. Nevertheless, you can also recognize, as you can in many situations in life, that that being, that person, while not necessarily excusing the negative behavior, might also allow others to learn something positive from it, or might give someone else a positive effect. I'll put a very simple example before you. We understand that it is negative when someone abuses another person. That's a negative act perpetuated by negative beliefs. It is segregative, it is isolating, it is disruptive, it is disconnective. Nevertheless, if you came upon the situation where you're seeing someone being abused and you come to their assistance and help them, then you are putting positive energy into it. And if you say, "In seeing this, I am now inspired passionately to do what it takes to make sure this doesn't happen again on our planet anywhere," then you are going to generate a positive effect out of what essentially started as a negative experience. Do you follow that? Yes. So it's how you use it. And that's why we simply say circumstances don't matter. Not to discount them, but to let you know it's what meaning you decide to give them that determines what effect you can extract from them and apply to your reality. Remember, everyone that is having an experience is fundamentally an eternal, infinite spirit. You follow me? Ultimately, everyone... everyone is just fine. Everyone. I'll put it colloquially, everyone goes to heaven, no matter what they've done, because that's the only place there is. The idea is that you are created in unconditional love, and that's the only place there is to go back to: unconditional love. Now, individual beings may learn that they didn't necessarily want to operate in a certain way because it may have created an experience for them that is more negatively oriented than positively oriented. And they may learn to do something about that from that experience. That's up to them. But the point is that when we say circumstances don't matter, we're simply attempting to let you know that they are fundamentally neutral, and that you can decide how they will actually affect your reality. What you will do with that experience. Just because the experience may start negatively doesn't mean that the only experience you can get from it is a negative one. You can actually use it to learn a lesson and actually create a very positive reality from that negative experience. Does that make sense? Yes. Also, when we say circumstances don't matter, but only states of being do, we are making a play on words of the term "matter." Circumstances aren't what materialize your reality. It's your state of being that materializes reality experience for you. The circumstances are simply neutral props that allow you to decide whether you are, by reflection, in alignment or not. Does that help? 
**Participant 20:** Very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.

**Participant 21:** Hello again Bashar and to you good day. Um, all right. I'm curious now. Oh, all right. From what you sense right now, yes, can human evolution lead to certain super abilities becoming more real? For example, uh, radical spontaneous change in physical form? 
**Bashar:** Yes. Yes. Yes. Oh. Okay. Flight? 
**Participant 21:** Yes. Spontaneous regeneration? 
**Bashar:** Yes. Um. Okay. Cool. There are actually already people on your planet, though they are not many in number, that can already do these things. Oh. You typically call them shamans. Okay. Cool. Um. There's that temperature again. Yeah. It's very nice. Thank you very much. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. You may all at this time take a short break. We will resume contact with a story.

### **The Story of Origins: The Anani, The Shaniah, and The Future**

**Bashar:** 
Or it'll say, let us continue this transmission with the following story. Relax, become comfortable, and let us begin in your traditional way: Once upon a time... time... there... many of your years ago, but yet to you still many of your years in the future. A world which was fashioned for the purpose of continuing a civilization that had brought itself to the brink of destruction. And this world was fashioned so they could have a second chance at perpetuating their culture, their civilization. These are the ones who made us. The ones who made us found your parallel reality and other parallel realities, and fashioned from their own realities and fashioned from their own genetic material and yours several hybrid species, of which we are one. 

I began my... my incarnation in my civilization 137 of your years ago. But yet still... still 2,700 years in your future. As I was born in my society and allowed to be telepathically connected, I did not forget my connection to my spirit, my higher mind, my oversoul. In which was made an arrangement, an agreement, wherein I would have also what to me is a past life on your world, which is the channel before you. And in that arrangement was set out certain parameters for how that communication would occur, would evolve. And it was taught to me at age three that I would contact my past self also at age three, and form the bridge and the link that would connect us through this life. And I was taught the way of doing these things. For I knew and I remembered that this would be my expression, my passion: to open gateways and open doorways for the consciousnesses of those on the threshold of new awakening, and new realities, and new experiences. And I was filled with great joy to realize my becoming. 

And as my orbits around my central star progressed, and I became what you know as the seventh year of life, thus then was I also introduced to another who was to be a counterpart in this endeavor. Who, as a female of my society, would also be an initiator of the opening of the gate and the opening of the door. And as such, I would eventually take upon myself the appellation that you have come to know as Bashar. So she would take on the appellation known as Anima. And in this way, together we would work to initiate contact and open many doors, so that those civilizations with whom we would interact would eventually be those who would join the alliance of worlds. And in this way did we grow and train and learn and explore together. 

And before my time, there was the creation by those that made us of a repository of knowledge on our world. And not only upon our world, which in our ancient language is *Ea'ni* (Place of Living Light), but on all the other worlds they had fashioned. And also placed thereupon other hybrid races, each of whom would play a part in a variety of ways of opening up remembrance, contact, and continuance with the ancestors, which are you. *Anani*, in our ancient language, the ancestors, the ancient ones. Who are, in that sense, from whom we are made. We are, in that sense, all the hybrids, your extension and your children. But each plays a different role in the remembrance and rejoining of family. We play our part in initiation. But there are those who will be the first to make open contact with you, who have begun to show their ships to you. As we have named them, those encounters you have come to know as the Phoenix Lights, being representative of one such ship of that group who shall be the first. And are now through us allowed to represent that. As we are *Athani* and you are *Anani*, they are the *Shaniah*, which means "those who will come first." The Shaniah are our cousins, our brethren, and your immediate children from those experiences you have labeled abduction on your planet. Which is for the further perpetuation of the species of those who made us, your counterpart humans in a parallel reality, who have mutated beyond the recognition of the human form. And in so doing prevented themselves from continuing in the same manner as which you do through reproduction. But in contacting their parallel cells, of which you are parts of the same oversoul, to shall we say initiate the idea of contact through what you have called the abductions, did form bonds that were unexpected in their oversouls. To allow them to glean and glimmer a new sense of emotionality, and the potential of what you can become as a parallel reality that can take a path unlike the path they took. They recognize that you are similarly heading down the same road of destruction, but know that for you there is a fork that they did not take. And in so creating the hybrid races, such as ourselves, did put upon us the task of assisting our ancestors, the Anani, to aid and assist in waking you up as you travel down that path. So that by the time it comes time to arrive at that fork in the road, you will take the one they did not take. And you will take the one that will allow you to continue. And you will take the one that will allow you to rejoin the family that they have taken from you in perpetuating themselves. 

The family that shall return, the first of which being the Shaniah. As they return, as they open contact, they will bring gifts of knowledge and awareness. They will remind you of your true histories. Not history in the singular, but histories. All the way back to the origins of the DNA that has applied its way through space, finally arriving in the solar system you call your own, and setting up incarnations on the planet that has been destroyed, Marduk. On the planet that has been destroyed, Mars. On the planet that has yet to be seen as whether it will live or die, the Earth. But which we know so you will continue on with. For we would not at this point be speaking with you had you not taken the fork that would allow for the family reunion. We thank you for taking the fork. And even though we know these are still what you would recognize as the dark days of confusion, when it does not always seem as if you are moving toward the light, from our perspective the gift that you have given to us of life allows us to reflect our knowing back to you that that is the road you are on. For we are on it with you. And we will never, ever leave your side. Though we may present ourselves in various ways at various times, and express our beingness with you in a variety of endeavors that shall take different forms, that shall transform always in will be with the essence of ourselves left within that endeavor that shall continue side by side with you, the Anani, our ancestors. For we thank you for the gift of life. And I thank you for my experience on my world and on yours simultaneously. I am enriched and we are all enriched by each and every experience you allow us to have of you. For we not only discover more of ourselves on our own world, in our own reality, but we discover more of ourselves through you. Through the aspects of you that are within us. As your ancestors, as your descendants, as your children. 

Fear not. Worry not. You will become what you desire to be. For we see you as you are in our time. And in our time you are among the stars and you know who you are. And in our time there is another form of life on Earth learning its lessons, creating its experiences. But you will leave behind a few things they will ponder and they will wonder about you and where you went. And in spirit you will guide them, even as in body you will explore other worlds and assist others, as we assist you. Other star systems evolving, other cultures evolving. And you will contact them much as we have contacted you. And you will be their entities and make them wonder what lies beyond. And you will bring them up the ladder with all of us, as you take your place as a full-fledged member of the interstellar alliance. That gathering which together synchronistically expands, enriches all who participate, all who harmonize within it. Because the core is the freedom to be the fullest individual. And to learn that by being such, that this is what creates the harmony of unity. That diversity, and the strengthening of your diversity, your true nature, is what allows for the harmony of the unification to express itself perfectly, and allows for continued expansion within all that is. 

We share with you our beating heart. For it is with the unconditional love of all that is that we speak with you. And that we remind you to know you. To know yourselves fully. One moment. One moment. One moment. One moment. 

Look to your Arizona area in your year of 2010. There shall be another opportunity for contact with the Shaniah. Look to your Arizona area in your year of 2010. There shall be another opportunity for contact with the Shaniah. In your year of 2008, you shall have an opportunity to set in motion the circumstances in your society that will allow for the initial recognition to occur. In 2010. In 2012, there shall be in a variety of what you call sacred sites another opportunity for recognition of the Shaniah. Five years hence from then, what you would call your year of 2017, there shall be the first broad awakenings of the memories of contact that has occurred in and around various cities. People will awaken to dreams that are memories. There will be at first psychological confusion at this. But by your year of 2020, the dreams will explain themselves sufficiently so that all of these that remember will communicate with all others that recall. And there will be the establishment of communication vehicles, centers, sites on your internet for those that remember the encounters that will reveal themselves in the dreams. As after your year of 2025, there will then begin a series of limited open contacts in isolated areas, predetermined, pre-selected, pre-chosen on your planet. In and around your year of 2013, there will be preparations for large scale open contact. In your year of 2033. These events are as we read your energy now. You have the ability in your year of 2008 to put exactly this timeline in motion. You also have the ability to extend this timeline depending on what you do in your year of 2008. It is in your hands now more than ever. Begin open dialogue. Begin request of open discussion of what your government knows of extraterrestrial existence. Strongest opportunities that exist in 2008 for the change of your American government. Infuse that change with recognition not only of what must accelerate to aid and assist the environment of your world, but simultaneously with the idea of contact with higher, different, other intelligence. Begin in whatever way is representative of your passion these dialogues, this infusion, these ideas. Choose your imagination. Come from the knowing you do. Do not be afraid of the dream. Do not be afraid of the dream. The dream is what will awaken you. That is the paradox. Dare to have the dream that will awaken you. You know yourself. And as you know yourself and give off more of the frequency of your true essential nature, the Shaniah shall recognize you by that sign and shall gravitate toward those they must meet when the time comes. When the reunion happens. This is simply our opportunity to share these ideas with you. To share this possibility of unfoldment with you. One moment. One moment. One moment. 

Mommy... Daddy... we will soon no longer be just in your dreams. Mommy... Daddy... if you will have us, we will live side by side on a new world that will be both your and our home. We will be in your dreams. Good night Mommy. Good night Daddy. We will see you soon. One moment. Your world is preparing to experience a level of unconditional love in the near future unprecedented on your planet. Even in ancient times with other civilizations that were far more connected, far more in remembrance of their connection to spirit, never before on Earth have you gone through the darkness to the light in this way. And the remembrance shall be profound by having taken that path. And the love once regenerated shall never be lost again. And in 1,000 of your years, you will no longer incarnate at all as humans on your world. But will, as we said, leave it for others to use for their own journeys, their own experiences, their own discoveries of self. But you will guide them. You will aid them. You will be their spirits. You will be their entities. You will be the ones to whom they turn for guidance. This is your legacy, even as it is wrapped up tightly with ours. For we are one family. And as family we are inseparable. We love you. All of you. Each of you. Forever and ever and ever. 

### **Closing Meditation and Final Blessings**

**Bashar:**  Doggy toys. We are going to remind you now to know yourselves. Remember the simple things we have shown you here. The simple ways. The *I am* to be in knowing. The dot on the paper. That's all it takes. Know what you know. You don't need to know what you don't know right now. That is sufficient for you to be all you need to be in this moment. Enjoy yourselves, as we enjoy you. Once again, take a deep breath. Let it out. Take another deep breath. Let it out. And let all the anxieties go. No worries. No anxiousness. Take another deep breath and hold it. And hold it. And hold it. And as you let it out, release and say out loud: *I am.* And that's all I need to be. And so it is. 

We will extend to each of you at this time, in perfect timing, our deepest, heartfelt, unconditional love for the cocreation of this interaction. And simply we remind you that no matter in what form it comes, there are more surprises ahead. More excitement around the bend. Your imagination is limitless. Let it be your guide. And it will always lead you into the perfect place, and the perfect time, and the perfect surprise, to discover more of your knowing self.

