---
heading: Part 1
title: "My Car Accident Private Session"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2011-08-27
icon: Bashar
weight: 329
showdate: true
---




**Asker:** I'd like to ask about a timetable of my energy to what I wish to create, what I want which should be what? Instant manifestation. The holiday.

**Bashar:** Instant manifestation. Yes. And you're using the term holbec. Are you talking about a piece of technology or are you simply talking about manifestation of things in your life?

**Asker:** I'm talking about being the alchemist with my teachers teaching me instant manifestation. The ability to create the apple in your hand.

**Bashar:** Now, you do understand that you are already creating instant manifestation. So it's not really about learning to instantly manifest. It's about directing the idea of what it is you are manifesting instantly.

**Asker:** It's about removing the linear part of the time then maybe allowing specifics, specifics and instant.

**Bashar:** But again, it's not about removing the linear part of time because you're already manifesting instantly.

**Asker:** But time is an application. So someone can take time out of the equation.

**Bashar:** No, listen again. You're manifesting instantly right now. It's just that you're constantly manifesting instantly things that are so similar to the last manifestation. They appear to be taking time, but every single moment you're actually manifesting a new reality billions of times a second. So the idea is to manifest something that is different enough from the last instant manifestation that you notice that you're manifesting instantly. It's not about learning to manifest more quickly than you're already manifesting because that's not possible because you're manifesting instantly something every single moment.

**Asker:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So the idea is that you're looking as you say for the specifics of a particular frequency of manifestation that appears to be very different than the last moment of manifestation but you're not learning to manifest any more quickly. That's the first thing that needs to be clear in your understanding of manifestation. Okay, make sense?

**Asker:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Now the idea thus then of manifesting specific things in the same instantaneous way directing or designing the manifestation for a particular kind of manifestation is really all about the idea of how strongly the passion and desire is for that to occur and also how strong the need is for that to occur because many people will manifest many things but they will also simply not manifest certain things if there really isn't a strong passion about that thing nor a strong need for that thing.


## The Path of Least Resistance

**Bashar:** You must understand something very important about the idea of how manifestation occurs in physical reality because a lot of it is similar to the idea of the rules that govern things like water and electricity in the sense that it will always take the path of least resistance. For example, someone wishing to, shall we say, exercise or exhibit the idea of psychic manifestation may say, "Well, I want to learn to be able to know psychically how much money is in someone's pocket." But really, instead of taking all the time to learn that particular skill, it's actually the path of least resistance and far more simple and far more quick to simply go over and ask that person to take the money out of their pocket and count it. So the idea is that reality is all about giving you the information, but it will give you the information in whatever it deems to be the actual path of least resistance, the shortest route, the easiest route. So if something is already at hand that fulfills the same need and the same passion as what it is you say you're attempting to do, then that is what will actually come to you first. There needs to really be great passion and great need to in any way, shape or form manifest a specific thing that you may be focusing on. Does that make sense to you?

**Asker:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** So the idea is that when you choose, as you used in your example, such an object as manifesting an apple, as you say, out of thin air in my hand, it can be done. But are you really that excited about the idea of an apple manifesting in your hand?

**Asker:** I used to be. I mean, the passion's kind of dissipated, but I still get imaginations that talk about doing things just like that. I mean they come to me and it may seem exciting.

**Bashar:** And again it can be done but what I'm saying is it's not about the idea of the manifestation. You're saying it's the idea of what it is you're manifesting. Whereas passion about manifesting quickly in certain directions is something you're doing already or have the ability to do already. But what I'm saying is specifically is it that exciting to manifest an apple in your hand as opposed to anything else?

**Asker:** No, I would choose other things. That was an example.

**Bashar:** Well, it's important in the idea that you're talking about to be specific about the things that are truly representative of your excitement and your passion when you talk about manifesting a specific thing. If you're just using a standin, in that sense, it's not going to contain the same kind of energy, the same kind of need as something that is truly representative of your passion. So when we talk about the idea of designing the manifestation that's already instantaneous, it would probably be easier for you to manifest that thing if it were representative of your highest joy.

**Asker:** I agree. I mean, one of the things I wanted to create was a balloon house.

**Bashar:** A balloon house?

**Asker:** Yes. A house that attached to a balloon.

**Bashar:** Oh, And why is this exciting to you?

**Asker:** It feels I think it would be just really fun to be in it and to be controlling it and tilt it and go around the earth in it.

**Bashar:** And what is so difficult about manifesting something like that?

**Asker:** I don't want to play by the rules we have in society. I just want to bring it up and I don't even want it to necessarily correspond to the physics we have in society.

**Bashar:** Meaning it might well in that context then you may actually be biting off more than you can chew because the idea is that while again many of these so-called magical manifestations are not impossible many of them are highly improbable and you have to allow yourself to really determine and really look at your definitions of your relationship to life to find out whether you can actually perform in many magical ways without necessarily giving up all of the parameters that you agreed to abide by when playing the game of physical reality.

**Asker:** Aren't the parameters going to become very malleable after the two, they are becoming more and more malleable all the time. They're already very malleable.

**Bashar:** But what I'm saying is not every single one of you actually needs to exercise your instantaneous manifestation to the degree where you completely eliminate the rules of the game. It can be done. I'm simply saying most of you don't actually need to go that far to attract what you want.

**Asker:** I don't want to necessarily eliminate the rules of the game. I just don't want to be bound by them.

**Bashar:** Or you are bound by some of them. To say I don't want to eliminate them, but yet in that sense I don't want to be bound by them is a contradictory statement.

**Asker:** Can't there be both?

**Bashar:** There can be not at the same time. Okay. So the idea is that you have to really decide what is truly important in terms of the process necessary for you to truly experience the idea of what it is you're manifesting because the whole idea of physical reality. Granted that you are in transformational age. Granted that you are more than capable of experiencing far more malleability in space and time than your species used to. But the whole idea still in the transformational age is that you are physical for a reason. And the reason usually is the idea of what it is you are manifesting usually contains some kind of process. No matter how much you may collapse the amount of time in which something manifests, there is usually going to still be a certain amount of time during which as you're manifesting, you will experience what you call a process. And that process is for the purpose of allowing you to change and get in touch with yourself in certain ways and experience certain changes within yourself in a time space manner that will actually allow you to grow from that experience. Because you see, instantaneous manifestation of anything in the way that you're describing it is the realm of the spirit, not the realm of physical reality.

**Asker:** All the time. It is becoming more so.

**Bashar:** But the whole point of physical reality is that there is a small amount of time that may be necessary in order to experience the actual process of the transformation, the process of the change. Because physical reality is all about experiencing the change within yourself in a manner that allows you to actually add that experience of change to your overall soul growth. That's why spirits choose to be physical. Not to completely eliminate the idea of the space-time factor, but to use just as much as is necessary to actually have an experience of creation of something so they can add the experience of creating that thing to their overall growth as a soul, as a being, as a consciousness. So all I'm saying is that while you can certainly speed things up and while it is not impossible to have the kind of instantaneous manifestation that you're talking about in physical reality, it is highly unlikely until such time as you've actually gained all the actual space-time experience you actually want to have in order to know what the experience of creation is all about with regard to a particular manifestation and add that experience of creating something in a linear way to your overall spiritual growth.

**Asker:** So you understand what I'm saying?

**Bashar:** Yeah. I guess I have a question about the soul.

**Asker:** Well, we'll get to that in a moment. Let me continue the idea a little bit so that you can understand more clearly the process that we are talking about. You don't have to completely give up the idea of the rules of the physical game to do things in very very rapid and magical ways. You don't have to necessarily carry around in your physical mind the assumption or the definition that you have to be limited or bound by certain societal rules in order to still do things or still go about doing things in physical reality according to certain parameters. In other words, many people on your planet are finding out that they can manifest things without giving up all the rules, but they may be doing things in a manner that is not common in your society and is still very magical and very very rapid, but still doesn't give up all of the ideas of the parameters of physical reality.

## CONVERSATION GROUP 3: The Photographer Example

**Bashar:** For example, there is a person on your planet known to the channel who was a very very very good photographer, very passionate about photography. Have you heard us tell this story?

**Asker:** Yeah, I think so.

**Bashar:** Do you understand the concept of this story?

**Asker:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Even though society may have said you have to do it this way and this way and this way, she did none of those things. She was able to manifest without the money society said she needed and a variety of other things that society believed she had to have. She was still able to manifest going all around the world living her passion for free and getting paid for it. But the point is is that she didn't have to absolutely give up the rules of the game to do so. She was able to simply bend them in a manner and use them in a manner that is unlike the way most people in your society use them. Thus then not completely eliminating the experience of going through the motions in physical reality but streamlining the way that physical reality worked for her to such a degree that she experienced a very joyful creation. But she still experienced the creation of that idea, the manifestation of that idea. She didn't eliminate it and simply suddenly find herself in another country with a camera in her hand. She still went through the idea of broaching the notion of going to an airline and suggesting that they fly her around the world for free in exchange for the photographs that would also attract more tourists to their airline. She worked out an exchange of these ideas. The point being that it was important for her to do so. It was important for her to do it that way because doing that way allowed her to feel completely empowered in her manifestations and creations. Whereas if she just popped over to another country, she would never have really experienced the empowerment that came with the idea of actually using her imagination to come up with a completely new suggestion that everyone else told her would have been absolutely crazy. But she didn't care. So that experience in and of itself of actually doing something in society in a way that most people told her it couldn't be done was just as important as the thing itself and in fact in some ways more important than the actual end result. So it's not really always important to focus on the end result. It's important to realize that the end result is only a lure to take you through a particular process and an experience and it is the journey itself that's the goal in physical reality not the end result. Does that make sense?

**Asker:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So once you understand that and you play in that fashion, then by using physical reality that way, you will then allow it to speed up and speed up and speed up and speed up to whatever is truly the minimum amount of time needed.

## CONVERSATION GROUP 4: Threshold of Believability Exercise

**Bashar:** This is why we once created the exercise we called the threshold of believability. Are you familiar with that?

**Asker:** I don't remember it off hand. It sounds familiar.

**Bashar:** The idea simply is to say a question to yourself, what do I believe is truly the maximum amount of time necessary needed for me to manifest a particular thing I'm passionate about manifesting. And the idea is to start way high, much higher than the amount of time you believe is necessary. So that you can say without a moment's hesitation or without a shadow of a doubt that that amount of time is more than enough for you to manifest the thing you're excited to manifest. So for example, whatever the idea may be, you can say, do I believe beyond a shadow of a doubt, without a moment's hesitation that let's say 10 years is more than enough time to manifest what I'm talking about?

**Asker:** Yes, absolutely. 10 years, no problem whatsoever.

**Bashar:** Is five years enough time?

**Asker:** Yes, five years. Oh, of course. There's no way I can't manifest this before five years.

**Bashar:** Is three years enough?

**Asker:** Yes, absolutely.

**Bashar:** Is 2 years enough?

**Asker:** Yes, absolutely.

**Bashar:** Is one year enough? The instant as you go down that line, reducing the time that you believe it will take to manifest, the instant there is any hesitation to say yes, no problem. That's how long it will take according to your current belief system. Then you can ask the question, what would I have to believe is true in order for it to take that amount of time? Once you find out what the belief is that makes it take that long, then you can identify that belief and realize that it may have nothing to do with you, that it may not be your preference. And once you let that belief go, you can take the test again. And you can start and say, "All right, now I'll start again longer than I know is necessary. Let's say 3 years. Is 3 years more than enough time?"

**Asker:** Yes, absolutely.

**Bashar:** 2 years?

**Asker:** Yes, no problem.

**Bashar:** One year?

**Asker:** Yes, now with my new belief in place, I know for a fact without a moment's hesitation, that 1 year is more than enough time to manifest this.

**Bashar:** 9 months?

**Asker:** Yes, no problem at all.

**Bashar:** 8 months?

**Asker:** Yes, no problem at all.

**Bashar:** 7 months?

**Asker:** Yes, no problem at all.

**Bashar:** 6 months?

**Asker:** Maybe.

**Bashar:** Again, as soon as you find there even a second of hesitation to say yes, no problem. That's how long it will take to manifest with your current belief system. And you can keep finding out what the beliefs are that would allow to take that long and keep reducing, reducing, reducing, and reducing and reducing the amount of time until such time as you get it down to where you can find no more beliefs that need to be discovered. And when you find no more beliefs that need to be discovered about why it's taking the amount of time it's taking, then whatever amount of time is left in that threshold of believability countdown is the amount of time it needs to take. It's the amount of time you want it to actually take whether you know it or not because you may be missing other factors you don't know about that are very important as part of the entire experience of manifesting that thing that you don't want to eliminate. For example, you may want a friend to participate in something and you don't want to leave them behind. So, you will regulate your timing of the manifestation in order to include them. That could be one example. Or you simply wish to actually gather other knowledge before you manifest a certain thing that will actually help you with that thing when it manifests and help you appreciate it more than you ever could if you didn't take the time to learn that thing before you manifested it. The point we're simply making is when you eliminate all the beliefs that make it take whatever time it's taking, then the amount of time that's left is the amount of time you actually want it to take. And that means that there is a whole picture going on here that you may not be completely aware of, but you can trust that when you've eliminated all the beliefs, the amount of time remaining is the amount of time you actually want.

**Asker:** You understand?

**Bashar:** Yes. And that will then reduce the process to whatever the minimum amount of time is that is truly necessary for full appreciation and full utilization and full command of whatever it is you're actually manifesting. Because if you actually eliminate sometimes those things and instantaneously manifest a particular thing that you're not necessarily ready to manifest, you may then find that you're not actually capable of utilizing the thing in the way that you thought you wanted to because you're actually now missing a component. You're missing some knowledge. You're missing a friend. You're missing some insight. You're missing a perspective that you skipped over that you needed.

## CONVERSATION GROUP 5: The Nature of Experience

**Asker:** What about a shortcut?

**Bashar:** This is the shortcut.

**Asker:** Wouldn't it be possible to get much higher and then download the thing that you needed to appreciate the thing that you wanted to experience?

**Bashar:** Pay attention one more time. When you talk about the idea of downloading, you can always download information, but you must understand something very important about the concept of being physical. Full appreciation more often than not, full understanding of a concept more often than not must come with experience of something. If you just have the raw data but no experience with that thing, it's not the same thing. And you may not actually be able to apply the downloaded information without the experience to back it up.

**Asker:** Well, what about grabbing experience from another aspect of me in another reality?

**Bashar:** You're missing the point. The definition of experience itself is what you're not understanding. The definition of experience means it must happen to you. You must have the experience itself in order to make it your own. You can't grab experience from someone else. If that were the case, you could do that with anyone. The point being is that experience very often, more often than not, must actually be experienced by you in order for it to be your experience. If you, and I'm not saying again, it's not possible. It is possible to, as you put it, download the experience from another self, what have you. But the point again is is that there are very very few instances where that actually benefits you because it's not then your experience. It's someone else's experience. And while that may be a momentary stop gap, while that may allow you to fill a blank, fill a space momentarily, it will still never be your experience. So it won't be yours. You won't own it and you won't be able to use it in the fullest way that you possibly could. It would be like what you would call a momentary, shall we say, crash course, but it won't stick with you and you won't be able to use it again and again and again.

**Asker:** I guess I don't understand how that relates to my plan with the holiday because that was a key infrastructure part. I mean, I'm not saying it was 100%, but it was quite a big part.

**Bashar:** What is quite a big part?

**Asker:** Being able to download experience or to even just blank your experience and merge the two.

**Bashar:** In fact, And again, I'm not saying it's not possible. What I'm saying, however, is that you have an unclear definition of the word experience of what it means to have experience. Okay, you're using the term inappropriately. So what you are saying is that while you have created this equation in a sense in your mind that you can simply have the downloading of experience as one of the variables in this equation you have a misunderstanding of what experience is and therefore the equation isn't always going to work the way you think it will because experience by definition means that you've gone through a process. If there's no process it's not really experience. You may have knowledge. Knowledge is not the same as experience.

**Asker:** I guess I also don't understand how if everything is one, then...

**Bashar:** But everything isn't experienced as one in physical reality. Just because everything is one doesn't mean that that's your experience of it.

**Asker:** So what you're saying is I can imagine that it's real, but it's much different to do the real thing.

**Bashar:** Even imagining it tells you that it is real somewhere. That doesn't necessarily mean it's relevant where you are. When we say anything you can imagine is real, it means it's real where it's relevant to be real. If it's not relevant to be experienced as real in the reality in which you're focused, you won't experience it there. You'll experience the idea in the manner that's relevant for your reality.

**Asker:** Are some of these abilities coming in the crystalline framework and the sixth dimension all that?

**Bashar:** Yes. But those are not physical realities as you know them.

**Asker:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** So I am not saying again that you cannot experience more and more and more of this in the transformation from third to fourth density. Certainly you will. But you cannot ignore the fact that even in the transformation from third to fourth density, there may still be required some experience to get to the point where you no longer need to have the experience. That's the point we're making. You cannot avoid experience to get experience. You have to use experience to get to the point where you no longer need to have it. You're just trying to jump over the whole thing.

**Asker:** Not trying to. I'm just trying to get to what I want.

**Bashar:** But it isn't about what you want. It's about what you really need as a person to explore the themes that you're choosing to explore. It's about understanding. And understanding doesn't come without experience. So in order to get to a point where you understand how to manifest a particular thing without the typical process, you actually have to go through the process of learning to do that. And in that process, you will gain an understanding of how not to need the process. That's what we're saying. You have to look at this as a paradox. So yes, it is something that can be done but not without an understanding. It's kind of an oversimplification to put it this way. But you have a saying on your planet that says first you have to learn the rules before you can break them. So the idea is it's not that the rules can't be broken, but you have to understand them before you know how to break them in an appropriate manner.

**Asker:** That's what I'm in school for right now.

**Bashar:** Yes. So, the idea is that these things are achievable, but the shortcut, so to speak, isn't necessarily as short as you think it is. The shortcut is to be where you are now and allow the way you're doing it now to be all right and not be impatient with it.

**Asker:** I'm not impatient. I just had a program designed that helped me plan long term. It was like long-term thinker program.

**Bashar:** Yes. And it wants a timetable.

**Asker:** So that I can...

**Bashar:** The threshold of believability is the best timetable shortener we can give you. You have to find out what beliefs exist within you that would make it take as long as it's taken. And when you eliminate all the beliefs, what we're simply saying is if there is any amount of time left, then that's the amount of time it needs to take. And it won't get any shorter until you let it be all right for that amount of time to be necessary. Once you allow the amount of time that's left after using the threshold of believability test, once that amount of time is left, whatever that amount of time is to be discovered, that is left that is necessary. Once you allow that amount of time to be all right to be there, then you will use it. And when you use it, you will shorten it again and again and again and again until you no longer need that kind of time. But you have to go through that stage through those stages. Otherwise, you will not be gathering the understanding through experience you actually need to have to be able to actually fully use the thing you say you wish to manifest. Because many people on your planet think erroneously that if they could only just instantaneously manifest a particular thing that they would know everything there is to know about using that thing. And you may like to imagine that you could just simply download all the information you would need. But the point is is if you're going to do it that way, what's the point of being in physical reality at all? Why didn't you just stay in spirit?

**Asker:** I thought maybe I did it to go back. That was the plan anyway. Everybody's going back, isn't everyone goes back quickly when they stop trying to go back.

**Bashar:** That's the point.

**Asker:** I'm not trying to go back though.

**Bashar:** Well, in a sense, you are by asking for these shortcuts. Yes. So the idea is when you are okay with where you are and with the way it is, when you shorten it to the necessary amount of time, when you're okay with that, fully okay with that, then you will shorten it again and then you will shorten it again and then you will shorten it again.

**Asker:** I've been doing that, right?

**Bashar:** I mean, but your lifetime isn't over. Again, the idea is that even the idea of a multi-year lifetime is the blink of an eye to your higher self.

**Asker:** I know that.

**Bashar:** So, it really is not taking as long as you may think, no matter how impatient the physical mind may seem to be about why it should be taking less time.

**Asker:** Yeah, I know.

**Bashar:** So, you need to relax the insistence on the shortcuts. Simply eliminate as much time as you possibly can with the believability test. And let the remaining time be all right to be there so that you can fully appreciate and experience what is to come in the manifestation that you will then create.

## CONVERSATION GROUP 6: The Check and Balance Program

**Asker:** Is my believability test, is it detrimental is what you're saying? I mean should I get rid of it? I mean I like get rid of the beliefs. I'm talking about my program check and balance that watches what I do and then analyzes everything I do and then sees if I'm on target to my goal.

**Bashar:** It is not necessarily a bad thing, but it may be overanalyzing and overdetailing a situation that can actually function far more quickly and far more efficiently without all of the attention to details. Because when you create more details and overanalyze them, you're actually the one creating more time.

**Asker:** I do find it fun though.

**Bashar:** I mean it then you see you've answered your own question. If you're doing what you're doing because you actually find that you enjoy doing it, then that's what you're doing it for. And you don't need to necessarily say that you would rather do it another way if it is fun to do that. Now, if you realize that you would like to change the way you're doing it, then change it. But the point is is don't be surprised that it's taking the time that it's taking when you suddenly realize that you actually are having fun taking that amount of time doing what you're doing in the way that you're doing it.

**Asker:** Well, I have fun in the reflection and almost the channeling because it just like pulls everything I've done into a focus and then let that be the point of doing it that way.

**Bashar:** You're gaining experience. You're gaining perspective. You're gaining insight. And that in and of itself is the goal.

**Asker:** Okay. You do know what school I'm in, right? You sent me to that school.

**Bashar:** Yes, we understand. Nevertheless, it's all about how you use the information and how you apply it in ways that are truly germane for the themes that you're really exploring.

## CONVERSATION GROUP 7: Parallel Realities

**Asker:** I guess I have a question too about the school like I imagine sometimes the future and you know there is no such thing as a fixed future.

**Bashar:** Yes. Right.

**Asker:** Well what will come but or what we will create. Yes. Sorry. But I imagine it sometimes and I imagine that it's possible for the world the way it kind of is to keep going that way and yet at the same time be able to create that balloon in the sky and because it defies the normal reality, they can't see it even though it's up.

**Bashar:** You do understand that that already exists in a parallel reality.

**Asker:** Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:** And that what you call manifestation is simply shifting your vibration to the parallel reality where such things already exist.

**Asker:** Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:** So who cares whether the other world continues or not? It has nothing to do with the parallel reality you say you're shifting to.

**Asker:** I'm just I like my options. I like both.

**Bashar:** But there are an infinite number of parallel realities and every single one of them in a sense is an option. You just simply have to decide which one option is most representative of the vibration of your preference.

**Asker:** Both.

**Bashar:** No, they're not. You see, again, you're misidentifying, you're misdefining these things. When you say both, what you're actually saying is there are some attributes in this parallel reality and some attributes in this parallel reality that you like.

**Asker:** Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:** But don't you understand that when you say there are some attributes here and some attributes here that you like, that that's a new reality unto itself completely separate from the other two?

**Asker:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** You're defining a third reality. Okay. So just because the third reality may have some traits of reality one and some traits of reality 2, that doesn't mean it's both realities. That may be confusing you.

**Asker:** That's a little kid. Yeah.

**Bashar:** So you have to understand it's a discrete distinct reality unto itself. Whatever your definition of a reality is is a distinct reality unto itself. Even if it shares traits with other realities, you have to understand it's its own vibration. It's its own signature frequency.

## CONVERSATION GROUP 8: Energy Shaking and Beliefs

**Asker:** I guess another question I had is when I'm doing that posting and I'm running my program, it feels like I picked up your mannerisms and I was wondering if I was tapped into your energy or...

**Bashar:** Sometimes you are and sometimes you're not. When it serves you to be so, you do. When it doesn't serve you not to, you don't. You're using whatever it is you need. That's the whole point.

**Asker:** As I practice with my teacher and I put my focus on kind of energy work and the direction that he points me to it shakes my body and I don't know what the cause of that is.

**Bashar:** It shakes your body.

**Asker:** Yeah. My whole body shakes.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Asker:** Well, okay. It shakes sometimes. It doesn't shake every time.

**Bashar:** But you understand that sometimes when new energies come through that your body is not used to, there may simply be a physical reaction to it.

**Asker:** I think the honest truth about it is it's been increasing over the years. It's just been getting more and more shaking.

**Bashar:** That's It's simply indications of resistance to the higher level energy. You'll get used to it and it will subside. So it will just go away one day if you allow your beliefs to accommodate it.

**Asker:** Yes, I want to. I just I want to know how it's not about wanting. It's about what you believe to be true.

**Bashar:** You must understand again, watch your definitions. There is a very very big difference between your physical mind wanting something and you absolutely deeply believing something or knowing something to be true. There's a big difference between those two states. And if you just want and want and want and want and want, you may never actually get in touch with what you actually believe to be true. So you have to pay attention when you have any kind of physical manifestation. You need to get in touch with your beliefs about your relationship to the experience you're having. And again, it is not uncommon on your planet for people that allow higher energies to come in to push and open through the conduits in your body that have been tightly closed. And in stretching those open to accommodate more energy, sometimes there can actually be physical reverberations as you go through that process. But that's When you get in touch with the beliefs that are causing the restrictions and let them go, the restrictions will relax and you will be able to accommodate more energy without your body reacting in the way that it does. Okay? But it's not an uncommon symptom on your planet in this day and age.

**Asker:** Well, it's been uncomfortable for me. I mean, the more I got into it, the more the shaking increased.

**Bashar:** And that's what I'm saying. The more you got into it, the more you're opening yourself up to higher frequency energies.

**Asker:** Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:** And so, the more you open yourself up to higher frequency energies, the more it is necessary to get in touch with whatever beliefs may be constricting the pathways along which that energy is attempting to flow.

**Asker:** What if I don't want to change those beliefs? So still be able to create what I want.

**Bashar:** No, why would you? Didn't you just create and set up in that statement right there a completely contradictory concept?

**Asker:** Kind of.

**Bashar:** Then why would you assume that you can create something that is not commensurate with a belief that you hold to be true? You cannot experience what you're not the vibration of. This is simple physics. You should understand that it's all about resonance. It's all about frequency. You cannot experience a reality you are not on the same frequency as. If you have a belief that is out of alignment with the frequency of a reality that you're passionate about creating. As long as you hold on to the belief that is contrary to that reality, you cannot manifest that reality.

**Asker:** So you're saying the shaking is a belief that's not in alignment with what I want to create.

**Bashar:** Yes. And when you relax that belief and let it go, your conduits will open up. The energy will flow through you in an unimpeded way. What you call more superconductive way. There will be no resistance. It will just flow. The shaking is from resistance to that energy. Resistance to your true natural self because of preconceived definitions, preconceived notions, preconceived beliefs you think you need to hold on to that are causing the restriction of those conduits. And you need to open that up by letting the definitions go. They don't serve you. They don't serve you. Why would you want to hold on to them? If they're not representative of the reality you prefer, why would you want to hold on to them?

**Asker:** Well, I'm not conscious of them, obviously.

**Bashar:** Exactly. That's why it's so important to identify beliefs because only when they become conscious can you recognize that if a belief is out of alignment with your true self, only by making it conscious can you recognize that it doesn't belong to you. Only by making it conscious can you recognize that it's illogical and nonsensical for you to hold on to it. So as long as it remains unconscious, you will not have the ability to let it go. You have to find out what it is. And then when you find out what it is, it will appear nonsensical and you'll just let it go. Okay? It's that simple.

## CONVERSATION GROUP 9: Higher Dimensional Vibrations

**Asker:** At 10 10 10 and at a certain point 10 10 10, I felt like I felt some of those higher dimensional vibrations, ease, and just really good feelings. And it didn't hold it. It stayed for a while and then it was gone. Yes. And that also happened at the 1111 on the day after. It actually happened at the day after probably because of a program. But it just, you know, it flooded me with...

**Bashar:** Yes. So you made adjustments. It didn't go away. You simply made an adjustment to a different level and then you got used to the level.

**Asker:** Okay. Well, I thought maybe I didn't have the container to hold it down.

**Bashar:** No, no, no, no. Again, don't define yourself like that.

**Asker:** I'm not trying to.

**Bashar:** I'm just But you're doing it. Yeah, when you say words like that, you're defining yourself in a certain way. So whether you try to or not, you are. The point is don't do that. Create a definition that works for you, not one that doesn't. So instead of saying, well, it happened and then I lost it, create the definition. Well, that new energy came in and it took me to a new level. And because it took me to a level that was really more representative of who I am, I got used to it very quickly. So, I didn't necessarily feel the surge anymore, but that's I didn't need to cuz it already took me where I needed to be.

**Asker:** I still wanted to feel the surge.

**Bashar:** Why?

**Asker:** It was nice. It was just unconditional love.

**Bashar:** Whatever that then feel it. Okay. You can create that anytime you wish. Again, the only thing preventing you from doing so is your belief that you can.

## CONVERSATION GROUP 10: The Ego

**Asker:** I just want to ask about my teacher a bit. Yeah. He says that the ego cannot understand the fifth dimension and beyond.

**Bashar:** Not really because the idea of what you typically call evil on your planet is simply the idea of negative energy expressing itself and negative energy is very separative and segregative and cannot comprehend the idea of that which is integrative and expansive. They can only understand the idea of the downward spiral in frequency, not the upward one. The ego is negative. Ego by itself is not negative. When ego is forced to do things that is not designed to do, it can in a sense create a feedback loop that allows it to become resistant and resentful of being given tasks it is not designed to do. And when it does that, it can then, shall we say, slip into the version you call the negative ego. The ego by itself in its neutral state is really just designed to keep you focused in your physical reality experience. That's its only task. It is only designed to function as a perceiver of physical experience. It is not designed to control anything. It is not designed to conceive of anything. It is not designed really to know how anything is going to happen. It is only designed to perceive how things are happening. Only the higher mind is designed to conceive of how things can happen for you. Thus then the ego just needs to be quiet and experience the things that are happening.

**Asker:** It was designed to learn things. That's what it was designed to absorb experience and feed that experience back into the total being that you are.

**Bashar:** Yes. Okay. But that's all it's designed to do.

## CONVERSATION GROUP 11: The Teacher and the Apple

**Asker:** Another question about my teacher. He said at our 11-1ven conference, he said that if he could manifest an apple, he would choose not to. Yes. Even if he could do it right there. Yes. And I don't understand. Is there subtle meaning there or what?

**Bashar:** There is both subtle and profound meanings there. And it is simply another version of what we've been talking about. When you realize that many times the experience of getting there is the point, then you will actually very often in wisdom choose not to have an instantaneous manifestation of a certain kind because you recognize that the thing that is most precious is the actual journey itself, the actual process of creation itself, not just the manifestation of an end result. Therefore, true wisdom, once it can accomplish that, often chooses not to because it knows where the true treasure lies in the experience of getting there. Because if you just simply instantaneously manifested the apple, that's it. It's done. Move on to something else.

**Asker:** Well, it can't be that that boiled down that simple.

**Bashar:** Yes, it can. I have just done so. I'm not saying that's always the case, but that's the point of what your teacher was saying. That more often than not, you will find that once you understand that you can manifest and do manifest instantaneously, you relax your need to do so because you realize that the whole point is to actually experience the transition. That's the goal itself. And any so-called end result is not anywhere near as important as the experience. The end result is nothing but a bookend to an experience.

**Asker:** I thought maybe the end result was created so that you could experience the end result. I mean, but there is no experience in getting to the end result.

**Bashar:** It's all well and good to experience an end result for its own sake. But what I'm saying is once you've experienced one end result, you've experienced them all because there is no real experience of the thing that the end result represents. Because the thing that you're manifesting as the end result is just a symbol of the experience it took to manifest it. And it's the experience that contains the true treasure, not just the appearance of the symbol that represents the experience, which is all the end result is. It's a symbol that represents an experience. There's no experience in that thing itself.

**Asker:** I guess I'm confused because I know...

**Bashar:** I guess what is confusing to me is if we go through normal reality rules with the balloon for example here in normal reality you have to get permission from governments and this is assuming we deal with the way things are outside.

**Asker:** Now, I'm going to stop you right there because I've already told you that it is quite possible, even in your reality, for you, if you're open to it, to attract circumstances and situations synchronistically where what you have just assumed to be true may not necessarily be required. And you have to relax your assumption. You see, in a sense, you're the one that's holding on to the rules you say you don't prefer by assuming that those rules are so hard and fixed and that there's no way around them that you're not allowing yourself to be open to the possibility that there might be any other way to attract that experience. So you have to relax those kinds of statements and those kinds of definitions as if there's no other way to do it but the way society says you have to have this and everyone knows you need a permit and everyone knows no one's going to allow me to do X Y and Z. You're only reinforcing the rules you say you don't prefer by making those kinds of declarations.

**Asker:** I'm not necessarily reinforcing them.

**Bashar:** You are reinforcing them by making the declaration. Okay. Okay. That's what I'm saying. It may not be your intent to reinforce them. We understand it's not your intention to do so, but what we're telling you is that you are reinforcing them by making those kinds of declarations because you don't have to believe that that's true.

**Asker:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Therefore, don't believe that that's true. And when you allow yourself to know that that doesn't have to be true, and only only when you allow yourself to know that that doesn't have to be true, will you be in the appropriate vibration to be capable of actually attracting an opportunity that will allow you to do it some other way. Remember, you cannot perceive what you're not the vibration of. So if you hold on to the idea that it has to be true that you must follow these rules, you will not be capable of seeing any opportunity otherwise. If you know it doesn't have to be true, then you'll be able to see the opportunity that comes to you that will allow you to do it in some other way. That's what we're saying.

**Asker:** I guess I don't see the other way.

**Bashar:** You don't need You see, this is again what I'm telling you. You're so focused on thinking that your physical mind needs to know every detail. It needs to know almost nothing. The point is is you have to let the higher mind make those things come to you. Your physical mind is not designed to know how something's going to happen. It does know, but it doesn't know. It knows. It does not. It thinks it does.

**Asker:** It thinks it does. I know it does.

**Bashar:** But would you validate the other point that it knows that I could instantly manifest it? It knows that option too.

**Asker:** It knows two options at least.

**Bashar:** Nope. No. Nope. Okay. The point is your physical mind is not designed to know these things in that way. It is designed to allow the higher mind to know these things. The physical mind does not have the capacity you think it does. It's an illusion.

**Asker:** With all the bodies merged, isn't it all supposed to come together at some point in part?

**Bashar:** It is supposed to work in balance. And the point of working in balance is to allow the physical mind to do what it was designed to do and allow the higher mind to do what it was designed to do. And stop thinking that the physical mind needs to do the work and the job of the higher mind by having to know this and having to know that. It doesn't need to know anything.

**Asker:** I know that it just needs to experience what the higher mind brings it. That's it.

**Bashar:** That's it. That's the only thing the physical mind is actually designed to do. That's it. It's designed to have the experience so that that experience can feed back up the ladder to more of your consciousness. But it's not really designed to think about the idea of knowing how this is going to lead to that or focus on this detail as necessary for that to happen. It just isn't.

**Asker:** I would have found it really nice to use my physical mind and have instant manifestation. I mean, that's what I wanted when I started this thing.

**Bashar:** I mean, you must use your physical mind in the way it was designed to be used.

**Asker:** Can it be changed later?

**Bashar:** changed into what?

**Asker:** I guess when I asked that I asked about recreating my plan because I had a plan.

**Bashar:** I mean why do you need such a big plan? Why do you not trust that the plan comes from a higher level? Why does the physical mind need to focus on so many details?

**Asker:** Oh, it doesn't. But it likes the control and I don't mind it.

**Bashar:** So you have just said everything in a nutshell. It likes the control. But the point is is it isn't in control. So what it's liking is nothing but an illusion. Yes. Of control. It's just an illusion. The physical mind has no control over the things you think it does. Okay? It has only been taught to believe that it does, but it doesn't. So of course it likes what it thinks it isn't in control of but it's not in control of anything. So stop insisting that it must be. You keep making contradictory statements and you keep expecting a certain outcome to happen from those contradictory statements which is not possible. The mind cannot be in control and at the same time you manifest what you say your heart desires. Can't happen. Two contradictory ideas completely. Control means you have shut the door to the idea of manifestation in the way you say you prefer to experience it. So you have to give up the idea that the mind needs so many details and so many plans. You have to trust that your life will unfold in the way that it needs to by simply acting on the things that give you joy without having to have so much focus on the details of what you think is going to happen next and how you think that's going to occur and what steps you think are necessary. Let your higher mind show you what steps are necessary. Don't let your physical mind tell you what it thinks the steps are. Let the higher mind show you what the steps are because the higher mind will actually give you fewer steps than your physical mind is insisting upon.

**Asker:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** So if you really want to shorten the time frame, stop making so many plans. Because when you make these kinds of elaborate plans, then you're creating more details. And when you create more details, you have to create more time in which those details have to exist. So stop creating so many details, you'll stop creating so much time. It's that simple. When anytime you create an extra detail, you have to create more time for that detail to express itself. Don't create the detail, you don't create the time.

**Asker:** I was seeing that my check and balance program sometimes talks about the future to people. Is that not helping too? Is it something that has to go?

**Bashar:** If it is doing so in some kind of a rigid way, it doesn't necessarily assist you.

**Asker:** No, not rigid.

**Bashar:** No. In what sense then? Because you keep using the term the future when you know there are an infinite array of probable futures.

**Asker:** Yeah. It does express that. It just talks about some of the futures.

**Bashar:** No, right. As long as they are left in the arena of being simply options and different parallel realities that all simultaneously coexist and people understand that they have the option to shift to whatever one they prefer, then that's fine. Then that's a true understanding of the nature of the structure of existence. But that's a very simple concept. It doesn't have to get more complicated than that. is at least a one line sentence. I would say that's it.

**Asker:** Is there anything you wish to share with me or my higher self?

**Bashar:** Nope. I've already told you the things that you need to hear.

## CONVERSATION GROUP 12: Bondage, Domination, Entities

**Asker:** Do you have information about like the bondage, domination, entities, those kind of things?

**Bashar:** Why would you focus on such things?

**Asker:** I still like those things.

**Bashar:** You like them sort of. In what context?

**Asker:** I don't know some sort of energy was shown to me that was kind of it was about bondage and it was about almost acts of rape if you want.

**Bashar:** Why would you gravitate toward such things?

**Asker:** I think they gravitated towards me.

**Bashar:** No. Why would you choose things that are representative in that context of lack of freedom? of lack of choice.

**Asker:** I could only guess past lives otherwise I don't know what they're doing in my life.

**Bashar:** All things exist simultaneously. This is what we're talking about. You have belief systems within you unconsciously that you're out of touch with that you need to get in touch with to find out why you are attracted to these kinds of vibrations. So that you can find out that these belief systems have nothing to do with who you actually prefer to be. And you can let them go because they're only representative of in a sense you holding yourself back, you bonding yourself to something that you say you don't prefer.

**Asker:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** You're restricting your own freedom. And these kinds of attractions are showing you that you are containing belief systems that are actually restricting your own ability to fully express yourself.

**Asker:** But I'm actually consciously saying I'm okay with them. That I understand it's okay.

**Bashar:** I'm not saying you invalidate them. You can recognize that they're okay as valid choices, but what I'm saying is they may not necessarily be the choices that are representative of who you actually prefer to be.

**Asker:** I'm sure.

**Bashar:** So being okay that they're there is a good first step, but you must find out why you're attracted to these things because it may not be serving you to be attracted to them in the way that you're attracted. So, I'm not saying they're not valid.

**Asker:** I guess I wanted to explore what was shown to me, and I don't even know how to rectify that.

**Bashar:** And remember that sometimes something that is shown to you is simply for the purpose of allowing you to recognize more clearly who you are by being given an example of who you are not. That may be sufficient.

**Asker:** What if it is what I am? I mean, that's what I'm saying. I consciously wanted to try those things and try them.

**Bashar:** And if you feel like you need what? To experience them, then perhaps the experience will give you more clarity on whether they're actually for you or not. So go ahead and experience the idea as long as what you are choosing to experience does not in any way, shape, or form violate someone else's freedom to choose what they prefer.

**Asker:** That's what it was about. Yes.

**Bashar:** But you see, you have to find someone who is mutually agreeable. For if you do it against the wishes and against the agreement of someone else, then you are generating negative energy and segregation within yourself in such a fashion that that would be very very very strongly indicative that you are harboring belief systems that are so out of alignment with your true core that you can't even recognize the difference between something that is done by mutual agreement and something that is done against someone else's wishes.

**Asker:** But it's all mutual agreement, not consciously.

**Bashar:** Yes. Just because someone is unconscious enough to play a victim doesn't justify you playing the perpetrator because it's your duty to be strong enough within your self-awareness to refuse the call of the victim. Because that then only disempowers you both.

**Asker:** I mean I guess I hope to rectify this from a higher place.

**Bashar:** But rectifying it from a higher place is recognizing what we have just said. The idea is that we recognize that there are many people on your planet that are very out of alignment with their truth. And by being very out of alignment with their true core being, they may play the victim and they may attract to themselves people who perpetrate things on them. But just because they chose it from an unconscious place does not mean that that's what their true core desire is. And the idea is that it's up to every single individual to recognize the difference between what is truly beneficial and truly recognized as the idea of growth for an individual and what is simply playing into someone's lack of selfworth which only reinforces your lack of selfworth. So why be the victim's victim? You see, because in that context, the perpetrator is also a victim by being so weak in their understanding of their true integrity and their true core that they also fall prey to the lure of the victim who attracts the perpetrator to punish them for their belief in their lack of selfworth and thus reinforces the perpetrator's belief in their lack of selfworth. If you don't understand these concepts, you truly truly don't understand who you really prefer to be.

**Asker:** I kind of understand those concepts and at the same time I wanted to experiment.

**Bashar:** And it's just like what I'm simply telling you is that if you give in to the idea of perpetrating something on someone else against their conscious wishes, just because they've created an attraction unconsciously doesn't mean that you don't have the capacity to recognize that it may be against their conscious wishes for you to perpetrate something against them. And if you are so weak within yourself that you can't recognize the difference between their unconscious creation and their conscious wishes and don't respect their conscious wishes, then you're disrespecting yourself simultaneously. Yeah. Because you have to have the ability to have the discernment to be able to tell the difference between the two and recognize with compassion when someone is acting out of unconscious manifestation of their fears and their lack of selfworth. And you have to recognize that strongly enough to have the integrity for them to point out what they're doing to themselves by attracting perpetrators to support their sense and belief in their own victimization.

**Asker:** Is there a way to rebuild it?

**Bashar:** Do it. Rebuild what?

**Asker:** Well, I guess I was imagining the holiday for a second, but then I realized that since everything's consciousness, even if you did it in a real holiday, it's still the same thing.

**Bashar:** Is it? It is. Because intention is energy.

**Asker:** What about a way to hold your energy where you're not affected and you don't do it to yourself? Is there any solution or is it just...

**Bashar:** Well, referring to the idea of the holodeck, meaning that if you in a sense simulate a notion simply within your own self-manifested energy and don't involve another actual individual in that, then there is nothing negative in that sense about that because you're not perpetrating something against someone else's conscious wishes. And it would be the same as real life. You can play out the idea of any fantasy, positive or negative, as long as you're not actually perpetrating that against another real individual and against their conscious wishes, then there is no harm except the idea of your own exploration of delving into the idea of more segregation and separation. But if you use that in a positive way for yourself and do it in a way that doesn't harm someone else, then it can simply yield positive benefit for you. It would be like I'm saying I see a state where you're a whole and complete person and you like reality is you come down and you play a part temporarily. Understood? And then nevertheless, the point is is that even though that happens among all the individuals on your planet, it is still up to you to rise above and see the bigger picture and have compassion for what it is that people are creating for themselves and not play into that game to the degree where it also devalues you.

**Asker:** I guess I thought that was an easy answer, but you make it sound.

**Bashar:** It is an easy answer when you understand it from the correct perspective. But you are confusing yourself because again, you're doing what you've done throughout this entire conversation, and that is you are attempting to put together contradictory belief systems as if they had any business overlapping. And they don't.

**Asker:** I thought they could.

**Bashar:** They cannot.

**Asker:** Oh, I guess I thought anything was possible.

**Bashar:** Anything is possible, but as I said, it may not be relevant to your reality.

**Asker:** So, changing realities is a solution.

**Bashar:** You will not change physical reality to the degree where you can have the overlap that you're talking about because that's not germane to the definition of physical reality in linear spacetime. When you rise to the level where such things are capable of being experienced all at once in one reality, you're no longer physical. And when you're no longer physical, the paradox then is that you have no further need to experience the things that are representative of the things that overlap. You just simply understand from that level what it is you need to understand and don't need to have the experience on that level. But when you create the idea on the level of physical reality, on the level of experience, because you're creating experience within the framework of linear space time, then those things can simply not overlap. One thing is one thing, another thing is another thing. And even though you can create a reality that may contain elements of both, it's still its own distinct reality. It still doesn't mean that the belief systems are actually overlapping. It's just that you're defining your reality experience as if they did, but they don't actually do so. And thus then whatever reality you define, whatever experience you define, thus then will also contain whatever consequences are germane to that definition.

## CONVERSATION GROUP 13: Downloading Experiences from the Akashic Records

**Asker:** I also don't understand the downloading of the experience because I thought that you could also just download experiences from the Akashic Records and in that way you kind of understand them.

**Bashar:** You can download knowledge. It's not the same thing as experience because you don't yet understand the definition of experience. Okay. Do you have an object such as a pen on you?

**Asker:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** Put the pen on the floor. Now you know you can pick the pen up. You have the knowledge that you can pick the pen up. It's not the same thing as actually picking the pen up, is it?

**Asker:** No.

**Bashar:** Pick the pen up. That's the difference between knowledge and experience. Just knowing you can pick the pen up is not the same thing. Experience brings its own kind of vibration with it. It has a different effect than just sitting there knowing you can pick the pen up. No matter how many times you may know what it's like to pick the pen up, no matter how many times you may imagine that you can pick the pen up, it's not the same thing as actually picking the pen up.

**Asker:** So, are you saying that the knowledge experienced in the Akashic Records is that if I were to download it, would I find it pleasing if I wanted to look into those aspects?

**Bashar:** You may. It just depends on how you allow yourself to interact with those ideas. But again, you may find that you will get what you need from that if you want to do it that way. You may not need the experience of certain things that you may assume you need experience in. and vice versa. You may need experience in certain things you may assume you don't need experience in. Again, you have to be able to tell the difference in terms of what's relevant to the idea of what it is you're exploring as a physical being. Some things you can just allow yourself to know. Some things it's important to experience. You have to be able to tell the difference.

## CONVERSATION GROUP 14: Closing Discussion - YouTube Videos and Business

**Bashar:** There will be a relatively brief amount of time remaining for this transmission. Is there anything else you wish to discuss in the time that remains?

**Asker:** I guess I wanted to ask about my teacher and a thing going on between me and him which is what about YouTube about videos of him on YouTube.

**Bashar:** What about it?

**Asker:** It's creating a resistance.

**Bashar:** Can you be more specific?

**Asker:** He's asked me to take them down.

**Bashar:** So, take them down.

**Asker:** I don't want to.

**Bashar:** Because you don't respect him.

**Asker:** Is that what it is?

**Bashar:** Yes. Can't you tell?

**Asker:** No.

**Bashar:** Why not? That's the question. Why can't you tell that it's disrespectful? That's the question. You see, you think that they need to be up there for a certain reason.

**Asker:** I guess I thought I know what the answer is. I thought in the unconditional love vibration that things like this don't matter. That's what I thought.

**Bashar:** Unconditional love does not mean you disrespect other people. Unconditional love does not mean you can do anything you quote unquote damn well please. That's not what unconditional love means. Unconditional love means that you trust that when you make an agreement with someone, when you have an understanding with someone, that whatever that understanding is will not prevent what really needs to happen from happening and you don't necessarily need to take the course you thought you needed to take. So if you have explored with someone the idea and say well I have a desire to put these here and the person that has in a sense the wherewithal because it's about them to say I would prefer and ask you that you don't. The point is, instead of insisting that that's the only way for you to achieve the state you believe you need to achieve is by going against that person's wishes, then you have a very, very, very weak faith in what you believe to be true. Because if you're saying that's the only way it's going to happen, then you don't believe there's any other way it could happen.

**Asker:** I got lost about how that relates to the videos.

**Bashar:** What I'm saying is you put them up there because you believe that there's a reason to put them up there. What's that reason?

**Asker:** In appreciation.

**Bashar:** In appreciation. But the point is is that person has told you that they don't appreciate it. That they don't appreciate it. Therefore, the idea is is that that's not the way to go about showing your appreciation. Find another way. You see, you understand?

**Asker:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** Because you've been given the parameter by the person themselves as to what represents appreciation to them. It's not about what you think appreciation is. It's about what others believe appreciation is when you're attempting to show appreciation to them because it's about them, not you. If you're appreciating them, then you have to appreciate who they are and what they say is important to them. Not what you think they should be saying to you, not who you think they should be. That's your idea of them, which means you're not appreciating them as much as you're appreciating your idea of them.

**Asker:** I also had a confusion about that because it was your version of his energy. That was one thing I said to him. I said, I can't remember how the conversation went, but if he's my version of my energy, why can't I just appreciate?

**Bashar:** Then you are giving yourself and attracting into your reality a reflection of someone who is telling you that that's not a representation of appreciation. It still works the same way. The idea is that it's to be of service. Not to simply do something that is to appreciate your idea of the way things should be, but to appreciate who it is you're attempting to honor for who they are and thus then allow them to also have a say in what form that appreciation is representative of them. Okay? Otherwise, you're not appreciating them for who they are. You're only appreciating what you think they should be. Thus, when you appreciate them for who they are, things might change. But you can't do it backwards.

**Asker:** I guess I was just going to ask about the business venture I'm in if it's the right thing, which is what?

**Bashar:** It's like a pot business or I don't know something kind of a co-creation that I don't know what it is. You don't know what it is. Then how can we talk about it if you don't know what it is?

**Asker:** It's a pot business simply.

**Bashar:** Oh, And so why are you in that business?

**Asker:** I'm not excited about it, but I don't know what to do with myself. I really don't.

**Bashar:** I feel like then you don't understand the whole idea of acting on your excitement if you don't know what to do with yourself.

**Asker:** I do act on my excitement sometimes.

**Bashar:** Then act on your excitement. If that is truly not your excitement, don't act on it.

**Asker:** It's not totally representative.

**Bashar:** Then act on what is in an integral way.

**Asker:** I don't know what happened to my excitement. It's like it's masked. It's hard.

**Bashar:** All you need to do to regain clarity about your excitement is act on the highest thing that contains the highest excitement at any given moment out of all the options available to you at that moment. Doesn't have to be a big thing. Just keep acting on the things that contain the highest excitement, but act out of integrity on it. Act in a balanced way on it with no expectation whatsoever of exactly what must come to fruition. If you keep doing that moment to moment, you'll lead yourself back to larger expressions of excitement. It's that simple. Excitement is the thread. But you have to look at whatever opportunities are available to you in any given moment, no matter how simple they may seem, and just pick the one that actually contains the most excitement that you have the greatest degree of ability to act on with zero expectation and act on it.

**Asker:** There was some excitement there, but it just it's not like it's much. It's not like it's a whole business or as I said...

**Bashar:** Look at the opportunities available to you at every given moment, no matter what they are. Maybe the most exciting thing at any given moment might just be taking a walk on the beach. If that's the most exciting thing that you can imagine doing out of all the options available to you at that particular moment, do it with no expectation of where it will lead you or why you're doing it and no plan. If it contains the most excitement out of all the things you're actually capable of acting on, act on it with zero expectation. And then when you've taken that as far as you can, look for the next most exciting thing to present itself to you. Whatever it is, no matter how simple it is, even if it seems completely unconnected to what you just did, act on the thing that has the highest excitement that you have the greatest degree of ability to act on with zero expectation. If you keep doing that, your excitement will build back up into a very clear form. But you have to take those steps.

**Asker:** So it's not masked in my case.

**Bashar:** It's not masked at all except by your definitions that mask it. But if you will allow yourself to simply clear all the clutter out of your mind and just do what we're suggesting a step at a time, you will lead yourself back to clarity with regard to bigger things that excite you.

**Asker:** I get it more like it's a roll and a flow cuz it's worked that way from before.

**Bashar:** That's how it always works. So if you try to do it in any other way, it won't work. That's how it works. That's the nature and the structure of existence. That's how it's designed to work. So use the structure that's there. You don't have to reinvent it. You don't have to make it work. Just have to allow it to work and act on it. That's all. Just act on the mechanism that it's designed into that's built into existence. Follow your highest excitement at every given moment with zero expectation to the best of your ability. It's all you have to do. Period. Everything else will unfold automatically if you let it and don't over analyze and don't overthink it.

