---
heading: Part 2
title: "The Four Laws of Creation"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2012-05-26
icon: Bashar
weight: 320
showdate: true
tags: ['bible', 'gravity']
---



### Questioner 9: What is the relationship between electromagnetism and gravity?

**Bashar:** It is different expressions of the same idea. 

Imagine that nothing exists but a single particle. All right. Because nothing else but that particle exists. It is in a sense massless. It has no effect on anything. There's nothing to have an effect on. Nothing has an effect on it because nothing else exists. Are you with me so far? Yes. Because it is massless, that means it can move at infinite speed. Something that moves at infinite speed can be everywhere all at the same time. Therefore, what might appear to be this particle and that particle and this particle and that particle can thus then be understood to be all the same particle moving so fast that it appears next to itself at the same time. 

So when this particle moves, it moves in certain geometric patterns that are indicative of certain energy waves, energy frequencies. 

The different patterns in which that particle moves cause the particle to cross its own path again and again and again in certain ways. But in certain places it will cross its path more and in other places it will cross its path less. Where it crosses its path less it is less substantial. 

Where it crosses its path more it creates what you call different forces, different material expressions. But the idea is that the path itself is like a net, like a web. And in a sense, that web and the different phases of where that particle crosses itself, the different realms in which it solidifies or crystallizes itself all the way from the infinite down to physical reality represent the different layers that you call electromagnetism and gravity and physical matter and so on and so forth. 

**Bashar:** It is simply another way of looking at water. 

You have water that can be steam, liquid, ice. It's still all water, but you get the different effects based on the different resonances and the different frequency states in which it exists. 

It is the same for all of creation. The different frequency or resonance states create different effects that interact in certain ways with each other based on your perception of them.



**Questioner 10:**  I have a nine-year-old son and I'm having some stuff come up with him, but I think it relates to a lot of bigger questions that I have about what I'm hearing from you is that the key to life is to show up with passion.

**Bashar:** To act on passion because you are physical beings and if you don't act on it, you're not grounding it like a circuit. You have to act on it so that the energy coming through you that is representative of your passion will actually ground and flow into the physical world.

**Questioner 10:** So I want to talk to you about karma and the way I interpret karma is like what you're talking about the watermelon seed, being under pressure to be able to change and transform. 

I feel that that transformational process is a relational process often that we are in relationship in that transformational experience. 

I'm really curious about how you perceive the relationships between family like mother and son and where there's like a karma or like where there's an opportunity and like how you can speak to me because my son and I, I see so many youth and I experienced this myself with my own family rebelling, you know, and pushing up against and I'm saying to my son, what do you love?

he's like, I want to play video games. 

karma is completely self-imposed. It is the recognition of a balance and equilibrium as we already just discussed. But the idea you are talking about has a lot to do also with the ways in which you communicate with different members of your society including your children. Understand that when you teach your children how to act on their passion, but when you are also acting on your passion in a way that allows you to invent, allows you to create ideas that you know they need to learn and hand them those ideas according to what excites them instead of forcing them to fit in a box. Then they will eagerly learn new things if you create the scenario of learning those things in the language that excites them. Does that make sense? If you find out what excites them and then you use your own creativity, use your own imagination to create scenarios, interactive scenarios that do two things. Create an idea that contains the information you want them to learn in a manner, in a style that is representative of what excites them, then they will be excited about learning that thing. At the same time, what you also need to teach them is you need to let them experience the consequences of their choices.

have them act out, play with them and act out what they believe the consequences of their choices actually might be. Let them actually experience in a safe environment the consequences of the choices that they're making. 

The parents need to be creative enough, need to be playful enough, need to be imaginative enough to create the kind of interaction that will allow the child to want to learn the things they need to learn to exist in your reality. 

By styling them in the direction that they're excited to learn things in, and by giving them the opportunity to understand what the consequences of their choices are, you create within them a self-guiding mechanism that they can use for their entire life. But the parents and the teachers have to be equally clever and equally on top of acting on their passion in order to be capable of conceiving of the things that you can share with your children that will accomplish these ideas. 


**Questioner 11:** How would you describe love?

**Bashar:** Love is in that sense unconditional love is the natural underlying core vibration of existence and creation itself. Unconditional love is the vibrational frequency of existence itself.

**Questioner 11:** My question is our interpretation of love is not always necessarily love.

**Bashar:** Well, any condition... it's not always bad to have certain kinds of limitations. They can form a framework for certain kinds of experiences. So we're not saying that certain limitations are not always in that sense negative. But any limitation placed on unconditional love in that sense is not the actual core vibration of existence itself. 

It is some variation of that idea that is being designed to be experienced in a certain way for a particular purpose. It just depends on what that purpose is and how clear you are about why you're expressing that variation. You have to have your own integrity, your own clarity, your own honesty about what interpretation and what spin you're putting on unconditional love. 


Because many people on your planet interpret unconditional love in a way that is actually not an accurate interpretation. For example, some people might say, "Well, I will just let my child do anything and everything because I love them unconditionally." 

That's not unconditional love. Unconditional love is actually being a guide for them to allow them to know what will actually work best for them and help them understand what does not work for them. And sometimes because you're the parent and you have experience they don't have, that may mean that you have to share with them that certain limitations and certain prerogatives and certain priorities must happen in order for them to be best guided into their best self. So that doesn't mean that just because you're putting those ideas on them that you are not giving them unconditional love. And it doesn't mean that just letting them do anything they want is an expression of unconditional love. 

**Questioner 11:** my question is not so much how we raise our children. It's more in relationship to what that human piece is that prevents us from really embodying unconditional love and the confusion fear that might happen.

**Bashar:** Fear. If you have a negative definition, if you have a fear-based belief system that is out of alignment with your true self, then that fear-based definition by being out of alignment will allow you to experience the idea of love as fear. You see, you only have one energy. You only have one energy. 

Fundamentally, that energy is unconditional love. But if you filter that energy, if you flow that energy through belief systems that are out of alignment with your true core self, you'll experience that energy as the sensation you call fear. So if you know how to use fear in a positive way, you will recognize that when you feel fear, what it's showing you is that you have a belief system you're unaware of that's out of alignment with your true self. So you can say, "Oh, thank you, fear. Thank you. I love you unconditionally for bringing to my attention I have a belief I don't prefer." And as soon as you make fear your friend, it will dissolve into unconditional love, passion, and excitement. You understand? So that's how to use the polarity of unconditional love.


**Questioner 11:** How in a universal sense is love perceived?

**Bashar:** It is perceived in many different ways. It depends upon the being perceiving it. But fundamentally, it is perceived by most beings in creation as what you simply would express as absolute support, absolute knowingness that you belong, absolute awareness of your existence in the present. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 11:** Yes. Does that answer your question? It does. Thank you. But it's different for everyone in terms of your interpretive spin.


## Bible

**Questioner 12:** In the Bible, where does it talk about if you can give a few examples of ET contact and UFO activity?

**Bashar:** Ezekiel.

**Questioner 12:** Is that the only place?

**Bashar:** No.

**Questioner 12:** And was Jesus a hybrid ET?

**Bashar:** Jesus was a hybrid being but not an ET in the sense that you mean that he was from off planet but he is a hybridized being that became very aware of his true full connection in that sense to source and was attempting to demonstrate to all that you all have the same connection.

**Questioner 12:** How much more psychic are cats than humans?

**Bashar:** It isn't that they are more psychic. It's that they're more consciously aware of the fact that they're psychic than many humans.

**Questioner 12:** How much more of the brain do they use than...

**Bashar:** No more. But all of theirs is focused in a different way. Understand? We know that you humans and again here is where it comes in as a perfect example. Watch your definitions. Many humans on your planet say, "Oh, we only use 10% of our brains." That is not true. You use 100% of your brain, but you're using 100% of your brain to make it seem as if you're only using 10%. There's a difference. When you know you're using 100% of your brain and start acting like you are, you will see that you are and experience that you are. So, it's not that the animals are using more. They just know they're using it all. Most of you don't.


**Questioner 13:** I ask about parallel dimensions and shifting realities into different frequencies.

**Bashar:** It's all about frequency. It's all about resonance.

**Questioner 13:** If you're shifting into different earths with different frequencies and your friends are there to create the illusion of consistency. Is there consciousness actually experiencing this different earth with you? So like because sometimes I wonder if like because you mentioned before like when people kind of disappear from your life or sometimes that can be representative of the fact that you have shifted to a parallel reality where they don't have a version of themselves.

**Questioner 14:** one time when I was listening to you and I had an experience that I could only refer to as nearly like psychedelic where I could imagine my pineal gland being it was like vibrating and I was in this state and I saw waves of energy. I was wondering if you know what was happening to me.

**Bashar:** Yes. The pineal gland produces the substance many of you are familiar with called Dimethyltryptamine or DMT. DMT specifically is the chemical receptor in that sense, the chemical component that is vibrationally linked to the idea of being capable of perceiving other dimensions and other levels of consciousness. 

So as you amp up your frequency very often you will amp up the vibrational resonance of dimethyltryptamine production in the pineal gland which allows you to see into other dimensions.

**Questioner 14:** Awesome. It will become a more common symptom the more of you ramp up your frequency of energy. Thank you. Thank you. I have one more question. Is that okay? Yes. On the thought of there being twin flames and soul mates, I was wondering is there families of soul mates? Like because I've felt intense connections with multiple people.

**Bashar:** Yes, there are many different kinds of families and relationships that you might call variations of soulmates. But understand soulmates can express themselves in a variety of ways, not always in the way that you might think.

**Questioner 15:** Hello Bashar. And you good day. I actually had a question of my own about DMT. What should we take from the visions and experiences that mean so much to us when we take DMT externally?

**Bashar:** Any teacher or any teaching tool is there to show you what vibrations and abilities you already contain. Thus, then you don't necessarily need the substance. Again, it is telling you that you have the ability to trigger that frequency within yourself anywhere at any time you wish.

**Questioner 15:** How would we go about doing that?

**Bashar:** I just told you. If you remember what it felt like to be in that vibration, you are in that vibration while you remember it. You're creating that vibration. The only thing that makes you think you have to do something extra is that you have a definition that remembering the vibration is not the same thing as being in the vibration. But it is.

**Questioner 15:** Yes. Absolutely. All right. One last quick question. Was that too easy? No. It's perfect. Are we going to be able one day to be able to interact with other humans who are taking DMT externally?

**Bashar:** Why not? Fantastic. Remember, if it has relevance to your life, you will experience it.


**Questioner 16:** I experienced that being here in this dimension is almost like what we would perceive as an avatar so to speak in a sense if you would agree with that.

**Bashar:** Well in a sense but again remember it's a euphemism. It you could say it's an analogy to the idea of what you do when you go underwater scuba diving. You need to put on the mask and you need to put on the breather and you need to put on the tanks and you need to put on the fins to go and be able to live and breathe underwater and then you come up and you remove all those things. Well, physical reality is a similar idea. You put on this idea of a body that has these physical requirements and you swim around in physical reality for a while and then you leave your body and you get rid of all those things and you go back to what you might consider to be your natural self.

But really in a sense it isn't that your spirit or your soul is in your body. In reality your body is in your spirit or your soul. The idea is that you're simply concentrating your focus in such a way as to have what you call a physical experience. But the physical experience is happening inside your consciousness. And all you're doing when you die or go out of body is you're simply expanding your point of view again to be something broader than the focus you had that you call physical experience. You don't actually exist in your body. Your body exists in your consciousness. It's just an idea.

**Questioner 16:** I've never thought of it that way, but that makes sense.

**Bashar:** Well, now you can. How exciting. Well, thank you for that. My second question, now it's kind of touching on the last question that the last gentleman had. Basically the things we do everything here that we're expanding our consciousness with everything from yoga to meditation, psychedelics, music and all these experiences are those different ways of, would you describe it as opening up the bandwidth to our higher self, the consciousness.

**Bashar:** All of these things we refer to as permission slips. Every tool, every technique, every idea, every ritual, every object that you use in that way to trigger expansion of your consciousness is a permission slip. You are saying I have a belief system that believes that if I do this thing, it will allow me or I will allow myself to give myself permission to be more of who I am. It's a permission slip. It's not doing it for you. You're doing it yourself, but you're using those tools, techniques, and rituals as permission slips to make it all right to give yourself permission to be more of who you are. Doesn't matter what you use. It's up to you. If you believe it works, use it. If you don't believe it works, don't use it. It's that simple. It's just a permission slip. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 16:** It makes absolute sense because it's all coming from within you anyway.

**Bashar:** Yes, it is. And the point really is to get to the point where you understand it's a permission slip and you no longer need the permission slip. You're just willing to give yourself permission to be who you are no matter what because that's what you prefer and you don't need another reason except that I permit myself. Because at that point when you arrive at that point when you simply choose what you prefer it's because there simply is no other choice for you. Period.


**Questioner 17:** Hello Bashar. And are you good day? So this question is about disease. The suffering that these bodies experience. Disease. And some are seem to be communicable. Some are called incurable.

**Bashar:** Nothing is incurable. Can you speak into a little bit about that? So we have some certain therapies that are cutting the edge like ozone, certain herbs.

**Bashar:** Permission slips. Any tool, any technique, any ritual of any kind is a permission slip. Some of those things will work for some people, some of them will not because people simply need to find whatever permission slip is most aligned with the belief system that they believe will help them because it is their belief systems and energy fields and resonance that created the disease to begin with. You understand? It's interesting how some people can have a disease and they don't know they have a disease. But it is because they are not willing to look at the belief system and they are allowing it to remain unconscious because they are too afraid to look at it. It is fear that causes most manifestations of disease. Fear to look at the things within yourself that you believe might be true. Nothing negative you could ever look at within yourself will ever actually empirically be true. But you might be afraid that it is and afraid to look at it. And the longer you're afraid to accept a portion of yourself, then the longer that portion will begin to shout and protest and get your attention in whatever way it needs to. And if it has to create an imbalance within you to do so, and get you to face that it belongs to you as a part of you too, and get you to love it as unconditionally as you may love every other part, then it will do whatever it can to grab your attention, even if it has to destroy you to do so. So if you don't prefer that, the more you pay attention to everything going on within your consciousness, within your beliefs, the more transparent you are with yourself, the more honest you are with yourself about what you hold to be true, the more disease-free you will be.

**Questioner 17:** So therapies for curing, for healing are basically based on belief.

**Bashar:** It is all based on belief. There is nothing in physical reality that is not. It doesn't matter that there might be a physicalized component or a physicalized reflection that you call chemistry or physics or medicine or science. Those are still just reflections of what you already believe in your consciousness to be true for you. So it's all based on belief. It's all based on consciousness. It's all based on vibration. It's all based on resonance. It's all based on state of being. That's why we say circumstances do not matter. Only state of being does because it's state of being that creates circumstances. Circumstances don't create state of being. It's the other way around. 

**Questioner 18:** I exist in this universe and I surround myself by people who exist in this universe.

I wish to observe certain things and the people I surround myself with I surround them with people who wish to observe similar things. How do you have advice to deal with those who wish to observe opposing things within me? Things that I don't wish to observe.

**Bashar:** When you are truly vibrating in the resonance of your true natural state, you won't care what you observe because it will always have a positive effect on your life. 

As you expand your consciousness, the paradox is you don't become less aware of the negative, you become more aware of the negative. 

That doesn't mean you experience the negative more, but you become more aware of it. Because all that is is all positivity and all negativity. And it must be kept in balance in order for you to choose to experience what you prefer. 

So if you invalidate the negative in any way, you're actually putting energy on it and making it more likely to manifest. If you simply let it be as equally valid as any other positive choice you could make, then you are free to be in equilibrium and free to choose what you wish to experience without invalidating that which you don't prefer. It's all about balance and acceptance and acknowledgement. 

It's not about exclusion. It's about inclusion, integration, not segregation and separation. You can't run away from anything. There's nowhere to run away to. There is nothing outside. It must be that you must allow and accept and acknowledge that everything is a part of you as all that is. And thus then by allowing and validating everything, you are able to thus then have the power and the freedom to choose to experience what you prefer out of all of those choices that are simply equally valid choices. No one or the other having any more or less importance or need to manifest than any other. 

And then you are in your center point, your place of perfect power, your place of perfect passion, your place of perfect peace. And that's all there really is to it.

