---
heading: Part 1
title: "The Four Laws of Creation"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2012-05-26
icon: Bashar
weight: 320
showdate: true
---


Your frequency, your true core vibration. The core vibration that resonates, that shines, that glows, that burns within each and every one of you is the idea of translating in your body what you call excitement, passion, joy, love, happiness. 

As your body feels those emotions, feels those sensations, that is your physical translation of the vibratory energy that represents your true core signature frequency. Whatever it is that excites you the most, whatever it is you're most passionate about, that is your magnetic compass needle pointing to your true north, follow it. Act on it, because it is a complete kit that will support you. 

It is the essence of your being.

Many people on your planet now have begun in their expansion of consciousness to talk about the idea of the law of attraction. What we term the third law of creation. The first law of creation is that you exist. You can't do anything about that. You cannot change that because when we talk about law, we mean with a capital L, something you cannot change. The idea of what you may call your laws of physics are simply nothing more than local conditions that may be generally true but are not necessarily the same in all realities. So when we talk about the idea of the four laws, we mean those conditions that representation of the structure of a nature of existence itself that is the same for every being in every dimension, everywhere, every time, every place throughout creation.

Number one, as we said, you exist. You will never be able to change that. You may change your form. You may change your expression. But if you exist now, you always will. Existence only has one quality to exist. That which exists can never become that which does not exist. Those things that don't exist already fill up non-existence. And there's no more room in non-existence for the things that do exist. So there is nothing you can do about that. You will always exist if you exist.

Law number two, the one is the all, the all are the one. That which we call all that is, which you may call by any name, God, goddess, creation, all that is, it doesn't care what you call it because you are an aspect of it. So all it's doing is naming itself through your unique perspective. You, all of us, all beings in creation make up the all that is. And the all that is makes up all beings in creation. There is nothing outside of it. Everything, everyone, everywhere and every when is made out of all that is because there is nothing else from which to make anything. So each and every one of you are a different perspective, a unique point of view that all that is has in experiencing itself in a new and unique way. And that is why you were in that sense created. And believe me, if you exist, which obviously you do, then all that is has a need for you to exist. Because if you didn't exist, all that is couldn't be all that is. So if you find that you are having issues of self worth, if you deny your purpose in life and think that you should not be, we would suggest that you stop arguing with creation because creation obviously believes you have a purpose because creation does not make mistakes. And if you didn't need to exist, believe me, you wouldn't. So if you do, you have a reason for being because without you, all that is would not be all that is.

Law number three, what you put out is what you get back. Physical reality is a mirror. Literally a mirror. Whatever vibration you give off is the experience that you get back. And what you call the law of attraction. In many ways, it is correct to understand that it is your vibration that creates your reality. But there is also something else that we would like to add about that concept that many of you are missing or overlooking. Because while it is true that whatever your vibration is is responsible for what you experience, many of you think or have been taught to think that you have to work to create that vibration that would attract what it is you prefer. And in fact, you do not. Your core frequency, your core true signature vibration is already attracting all the things that are representative of that core vibration. If those things that are representative of your true core loving, creative natural vibration aren't manifesting, aren't reaching you, it's not because you're not attracting them. It's because you're keeping them away. That's the difference. Because everything that is representative of that core frequency is doing its best to get to you. If it can't reach you, you're keeping it away with your definitions, your beliefs, your ideas about not being worthy of those things. Everything that is not compatible with your vibration is doing its best to get as far away from you as it possibly can. But if it doesn't leave you, if it's hanging around and it's not what you prefer, it's not because it can't in that sense represent your vibration, it's because you're holding on to it. So the idea of the law of attraction, while in one sense is accurate, it's really more about letting go of those things that don't work for you and letting in those things that do. And that's really how the law of attraction works.

Now, here is something that we know many people on your planet find very, very, very difficult. And that is that this isn't difficult at all. Many people on your planet find simplicity to be the most difficult thing to wrap their minds around. Many of you think that it's a very complicated thing or that it requires a lot of struggle and strife to attract these things and nothing could be further from the truth. You automatically already deserve these things or you wouldn't exist. So this journey, this process that you are experiencing in your physical reality on earth is all about letting go of those beliefs that you've bought into that don't belong to you that you may have picked up along the way from someone else. Your parents, your friends, your society that are simply out of alignment with your true core vibration. And if you are traveling through life carrying beliefs that belong to someone else, that makes you a belief thief. Don't steal other people's beliefs. They don't belong to you. So if you find that you have beliefs that don't belong to you, drop them. Let them go. Don't carry them around. They will tire you out, wear you down because they're not compatible with your core vibration. Anything that is truly compatible with your core vibration will allow you to feel light, energized, creative, loving, all those things. Anything that is not you is going to feel like a strain, a struggle, an effort, a trial, a tribulation, painful. Remember, pain, physical pain, emotional pain, spiritual pain. Pain is the result of the resistance to your natural self. That's all it is. Stop resisting who you are. You will fit. Everything will work because you don't need to make life work. You just need to let life work. Life already works. It works automatically. It works fluidly. It works absolutely perfectly. It's just that when you buy into belief systems that are out of alignment and are at odds and in contradiction to your true core vibration, it doesn't allow you to see. It doesn't allow you to experience that life automatically works.

This brings us to the fourth law, the last law. And that is that everything changes. Everything is change. One thing changes from one thing to another. Change is a constant. It always will change except the only thing that never changes are the first three laws. They never change. You exist. The one is all. The all is one. What you put out is what you get back. Everything changes. That's it. That is all that all of creation is built on, based on. That is the underlying nature of the structure of existence. And every single experience you have ever had, are having now, or will ever have is based on some combination of those four laws. So, it's really up to you to decide how you wish to experience the combination of those four laws. And the easiest way to allow yourselves to experience a combination that is most representative of your true core vibration is to always act to the best of your ability on your highest passion.

But listen, listen, listen to the entire formula because we know we have discussed this idea with many of your people and we know that many of your people have discussed this idea amongst yourselves. But many times when we perceive the way you discuss this idea, we hear that many of you leave certain parts of it out. The whole formula. Are you paying attention? Yeah. All right. Just checking. Make sure there's someone on the other end of the telephone. The whole formula is: act on your highest passion every moment that you can to the best of your ability. Taking it as far as you can possibly take it until you can take it no further with absolutely zero expectation for what the outcome should be.

Why the zero expectation? I'll tell you. You have basically being a physical being split yourself into two main components. A physical mind and a higher mind that is non-physical. You need to work together. The physical mind and the higher mind must form a partnership, must form a relationship that works in tandem in order to actually function as a whole person in your reality. But when you allow the physical mind to think that it has to do this and it has to make this happen and it must know how something is going to happen and you get it to focus on all these details, you are giving it more than it was designed to do. You wear it out. You tire it out and you wonder why you get so many headaches at the end of the day and you wonder why you're tired all the time. The idea is to understand that the physical mind is simply not designed to know how something is going to happen. It just isn't. The physical mind is only designed to know and to experience what is happening in the present. The higher mind knows how something is going to happen. When you allow the higher mind thus then to know that and to work with you, the higher mind will know how to bring the manifestation to the physical mind for the physical mind to experience.

So here is how the idea for example of visualization actually works. The physical mind is capable of conjuring a visualization of your ideal preferred reality. And when you see that visualization in your mind's eye, you get very excited about that manifestation about experiencing that reality. And the excitement is good, is exactly what you need. But the purpose of that visualization is to generate that feeling, that state of being, of passion, of excitement. The purpose of the visualization is not necessarily to come into manifestation as your physical mind has envisioned it. Because your physical mind, what it may think is the most ultimate representation of that reality. What it may think is the absolute top. What it may think is the absolute ceiling to the higher mind is just the floor, just the beginning of what could manifest. And if you simply stay in the state that the visualization generates within you and then let go of the actual imagery and hand that energy over to your higher mind, your higher mind will actually then bring you the manifestation that is actually representative of that passion state even though it may look nothing like you imagined. It might but it might not. So the idea is to use the energy state to work with the higher mind and allow the higher mind to bring you what it knows you really need that is truly representative of that energy state so that you can be open and willing to accept that no matter what manifests it is all part and parcel all a representation of your joy and never will be defined or labeled as an interruption in it or an obstacle in it or a stopping of that joy because your physical reality as we said is only a mirror and whatever you define it to be, whatever you believe is most true is what you get. So it's very important to pay attention to those beliefs and those definitions for it is those and only those that create your physical reality experience because nothing in physical reality has built-in meaning. Nothing has automatic meaning. Everything is fundamentally without built-in meaning. The greatest gift, and I know this sounds strange in your language, the greatest gift creation has given to all of you is that life is fundamentally meaningless. That means it has no built-in meaning. What that also means is you were designed to give it the meaning you prefer to give it. And the meaning you give it will utterly determine how you experience it, no matter how the situation looks because every situation is neutral and can serve double duty and can allow you to experience a positive or a negative effect in your life. It isn't how the situation looks that makes the difference. It's how you respond to the situation that makes the difference in terms of the effect that you experience. So let go of the idea that the outer world needs to change in order for you to know that you have changed. Just make the change within yourself. Know that you have changed. Behave as if you have changed. And then you will prove to creation that you have changed because you will be responding differently to the outer reflection even if the outer reflection stays the same. That's how it works. Does that make sense to you all?

Remember that all we are talking about here is not only simple physics. It is simple physics. Very simple. We understand that creation is infinitely complex and rich, but it is not complicated. It is fundamentally simple. Were it not fundamentally simple, it could not be infinite because if it were more complicated than this, it would fall and collapse under its own weight. In order to be truly infinite and allow for all possibilities, the core, the essence of creation has to be fundamentally simple. Do you all understand? Thank you. We will now extend to each and every one of you once again our deep appreciation for the co-creation of these interactions. We will now open to you the idea of questions and conversations if you wish.

### Q&A with Bashar

**Questioner 1:** Hi Bashar. And to you. Good day. Thank you so much for coming. We all want to extend our appreciation to your civilization for coming to talk to us and to teach to us. You mentioned at the beginning that you would come physically to us when we're ready. How close are we to that moment?

**Bashar:** It is highly likely and again remember this is just a probability at this time because there is no such thing as a prediction of the future. There is only a sensing of the energy that exists at the time the prediction is made. And if that energy changes, it will not come to pass. But if there's a lot of momentum behind it, a lot of energy behind it, then it will manifest. So with that understanding as we read the energy now, it is most likely, most probable that open contact between your civilization and other civilizations including our own will happen sometime in the window of your time you call 2025 to 2033.

**Questioner 1:** Fantastic. So who else is out there attempting to contact us right now besides you guys?

**Bashar:** The first civilization it is likely that you will make open contact with are called the Yael or what in our ancient language we call the Shalonia. They are a hybrid civilization similar to our own but they are more closely connected genetically to your civilization and they will be the first ones to make open contact.

**Questioner 1:** Is it true that we were put here by aliens? Like we're not... we were...

**Bashar:** It is not that you were put. It is that the indigenous species that was native to your planet was in a sense to some degree genetically altered into the form you are now.

**Questioner 1:** Cool. Awesome. Thank you so much. Thanks.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

---

**Questioner 2:** Hi there Bashar. And you good day. I have a question. Are you a breatharian?

**Bashar:** We no longer eat. We no longer sleep. We in the sense almost don't even breathe. We in our own civilization are evolving out of physical reality, but we are still what might be called quasi-physical, but we have elements of physicality and elements of spirit. We subsist directly on the energy of creation at this point. Does that answer your question?

**Questioner 2:** Yes. And how do we get to that point?

**Bashar:** It is very simple. You evolve by acting to the best of your ability on your highest passion every moment that you can.

**Questioner 2:** One moment. Do you have sex?

**Bashar:** One moment. We are allowing for aerial technology to pass by. We have evolved from the idea of more physicality. We were in a sense once more similar to your species. The idea is that we did at one time sleep and eat and procreate in much the same manner. Now if we wish a new life form, the different beings create an energy bubble in which a new life form simply automatically manifests. Did that answer your question?

**Questioner 2:** Yes. Is that sufficient? Do you have sex? I just answered your question. That was good. Okay. All right. I'm good. Thank you.

---

**Questioner 3:** Hi Bashar. Speak up and be bold so that all may hear what you have to share. Hello Bashar and you. Good day. I just wanted to ask if I would see someone again. Whom? Pono. When did you see them last? When I was in Hawaii in April. And why do you wish to see them again? Because he's my friend. Well, you know that at some point the fact that you met at all means you have some connection. And the fact that you have some connection means that somewhere, somehow, somewhere, you will meet again. We cannot say exactly how or when, but if you have a connection at all, you will meet again. Do you understand? Yes. Does that answer your question? Yes, Bashar. Is that sufficient? Yes. Thank you. You're welcome.

---

**Questioner 4:** Hello, Bashar. And you good day. I have a question. I want to know, how do we get to the point where we're manifesting like enlightened people like Jesus or... Speak up. How do we manifest, how can we get in the in-between state and stay that way where we're manifesting like Jesus did when walking on water?

**Bashar:** Well, remember that when Yeshua or who you call Jesus talked about the idea of him being the way, what he simply meant is be like him, be that vibration. In other words, the Christ consciousness did not want the idea of Christians. The Christ consciousness was saying you are all Christs. So if you can simply exhibit the idea of that vibration by acting on your highest passion and acting from highest unconditional love. And by the way, look up the word unconditional. It means without condition. Many people on your planet say, "Yes, I love you unconditionally. Well, except for these conditions." Unconditional love. The energy thus then of that unconditional love, acting from your true core vibration, acting on your passion without reservation, knowing it will support you, will allow you more and more in every way, every moment of the day to shift from parallel reality to parallel reality that will be more and more and more reflective of you giving off the vibration of the Christ consciousness, the Buddha nature, the Krishna spirit. Doesn't matter what you call it. It's all the same idea. It's your true core vibration. And the way you exhibit that is by acting on your passion without reservation with no expectation. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 4:** Yes. Thank you. It really all does come down to that simple idea. I know that again sometimes that sounds too simple, but that's really the key. That's all there is to it. Does that help?

**Questioner 4:** Yes. Thank you. Thank you.

---

**Questioner 5:** Greetings Bashar and you good day. It is an honor to co-create with you in this moment for us as well with you. Thank you. My question for you today is that being an incarnate in this body as you said the first law is that we have always existed and that we have many lives and it is said that we have many inter-dimensional selves happening at this moment in this parallel life.

**Bashar:** All lives, all experiences all exist at the same time. Time in that sense is an illusion. There is no past. There is no future. Those are simply alternate, parallel, coexisting realities that are going on right now.

**Questioner 5:** My question for you is, yes, what is some suggestions that you can give us to help us remember and tap in to the memories and the talents and the abilities we have in our other lives?

**Bashar:** I know this is going to sound redundant. However, when you act on your highest excitement, what are you doing? You're living in the moment. When you're living in the moment, living in the present, what are you doing? Tapping into everything that exists in the present. So if all those other lives coexist now, the easiest way to allow whatever information you need in this life from those lives to help you, the easiest way to tap into that is by living as fully as you can in the present in this life. And the way to do that is to act on your highest joy every moment that you can. Does that make sense? Yes. Now understand the idea is that you're already getting all that information. You may not always know it. You don't always need to know that you're getting that information because sometimes the information comes in such a natural way as to not interfere, not intervene, not stop your momentum. You never know when that information is coming to you. You may someday have a thought, an inspiration, an idea that you're very excited about. How do you know it didn't come from an experience that another version of you in another life is having right now? You don't know. It might have. But the point is you don't necessarily need to know that's where it came from in order to use it in this life. So by not insisting that you have to know where the information is coming from, more information will come to you. That's the paradox. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 5:** Very much so. Does that answer your question? It does. Thank you. Thank you. One more. You're welcome. One more, please. Yes. Is it a potential in our lifetimes, everyone here, that we will be able to tap into being able to manipulate reality itself.

**Bashar:** You are manipulating reality itself.

**Questioner 5:** Cool. So, we'll be able...

**Bashar:** One moment. One moment. Let us clarify. Please understand when you hear things like learn to create your reality, learn to manifest, learn to trust, these things are not things you actually have to learn to do. What you need to learn is that you're already doing it. And you need to become consciously aware of the fact that you're already doing it. You're already manifesting everything you experience. You're already creating your reality. You're already trusting in something 100% of the time, aren't you? Yes. If you weren't trusting in something, you would have no experiential reality at all. So, the issue is you don't have to learn to manifest. You don't have to learn to trust. The question is, what are you trusting in? What are you manifesting with the mechanism you are already using? So just become more aware of the fact that you're already shifting. You're already changing. You're already manifesting automatically. You can't help it. It's in your nature. If you weren't doing it, you would have no experiential reality at all. So the fact that you're having experience means you're already manifesting. You don't have to learn how to do it. It's part of your nature. But let it become conscious so that you can consciously choose what you prefer as opposed to unconsciously manifesting what you don't. You see the difference. And it is all about the difference in definition. Because when you define that you don't know how to manifest, when you define that you have to learn to trust, when you define that you have to learn to be abundant, you're already setting yourself back several paces because now you're assuming you have to learn to do something that in fact you're already doing and don't have to learn. So allow yourself to speed the process up by recognizing that you're already doing these things and watch your definitions. The definitions of what you define your reality to be is key. For example, many of you define the idea of abundance or lack of abundance in the following way. You say, "I have a lack of abundance." That's not possible. There is no such thing as a lack of abundance. Everything is always absolutely abundant. What you're actually saying is you have an abundance of lack. But you see, you still have abundance. So it's not about having to learn to be abundant. It's about paying attention to what you believe you're abundant in. And then you can change what the form of abundance is because you don't have to learn to be abundant. You just have to change what form of abundance you prefer. See how much easier that is. Watch your definitions. Your definitions are everything in the creation of your reality experience. Make sense?

**Questioner 5:** Makes sense. Thank you. Thank you. I love you, Bashar.

**Bashar:** Our unconditional love to you as well.

---

**Questioner 6:** Hi, Bashar. And are you good day? I had two questions. Oh, all right. If you insist. I can't remember what they are. Are... Oh, congratulations. Are all... You must be living in the moment. I really am. I really am. Are all channels... Oh, the question came back fast. Yeah, it's coming back. Are all channels feeling sometimes like they teach kindergarten when they come here?

**Bashar:** Do you mean entities? Sure. Please pay attention to this idea. It's very important for you to understand. We understand that many times you may think of yourselves as a kindergarten class. And we don't mean that you're not learning new things. Of course, everyone does. But from our perspective, the very fact that you chose to manifest or incarnate in a reality with such an amazing amount of limitation and know that you can transform that limitation into freedom and transform the darkness into light from our perspective makes you a master graduating class. So, we understand that you may feel like you're learning new things for the first time like a youngster. Nevertheless, the power and strength and assurance it takes for a soul and a spirit to manifest on earth at this time and know that no matter how dark and no matter how limited, it can still transform that into love and light that makes you a master. Never think less of yourselves. And knowing that that's how we see you, you can see yourself that way, too, if you wish. Does that help?

**Questioner 6:** Yes. All right. And the second question, do you know what my second question is? That was a question, wasn't it? Yeah. Okay. So, my third question is, do you want to comment at this time about other entities like 3D reality entities that are from off-world that are here now? Do you have anything to say about that?

**Bashar:** Are you talking about the idea of ET beings? Sure. Extradimensionals. Anybody coming here that's here? Well, sometimes there will be those beings from other civilizations and other dimensions that may temporarily take up some kind of visitation or residence upon your planet for a time to observe or learn or experience certain things. Yes, that can happen from time to time. There are also ET bases on your planet here and there and on your moon and in several planets in your solar system. What else do you need to know?

**Questioner 6:** No, that's it. Just checking. Oh, all right.

---

**Questioner 7:** Greetings, Bashar. Good day. Yay. So, I'm just calling in building on this last some momentum here and a full mastery of our physical beings, our planet here and how we're interacting with these soils, this earth, these sacred waters and dealing with the current state of excessive radiation and all kinds of demineralization of soils and you know, exciting, isn't it? It's really exciting because we have a great opportunity, like you're saying, to turn this mass darkness into light. And so I'm wondering what insights you have.

**Bashar:** Well, you're giving yourself an opportunity to understand more clearly what kind of a world you prefer by first creating a world that you don't prefer. Because sometimes in your civilization because of the way you're brought up, because of the belief systems you've bought into, it's sometimes easier to know what it is you are by first experiencing what it is you are not and thus forcing yourself in a sense in a certain direction. We call this by using an aspect of your language the watermelon seed principle. When you place yourself in a circumstance like a watermelon seed between thumb and forefinger and you squeeze and squeeze and squeeze yourself to where you have nowhere else to go. Suddenly you will shoot out in a new direction, an unexpected direction with a new insight and an understanding of how to transform something you didn't have before. So sometimes that's how you do it. You put yourself in a vice to force yourself to see something in a new direction that heretofore was invisible to you. So that's what you can do if you wish. At the same time, you can again simply recognize these are opportunities to look at alternatives that are far more representative of who you prefer to be and what you prefer your world to be. Now, please again understand very clearly. You never actually change the world you're on ever. You change yourself and then you shift to a parallel earth reality that's already more representative of the change you made within yourself and is already populated by beings that are more representative of that vibration. But the world you used to exist on still exists somewhere else. Still populated by versions of yourself or other beings that are more representative of the vibration you no longer are. You are constantly shifting from parallel reality to parallel reality. Now listen, billions of times per second. That's what time is. The experience you call time, movement, change, space is your consciousness shifting billions of times per second from parallel earth to parallel earth to parallel earth to parallel earth. A little bit different. A little bit different. A little bit different. But totally different. Totally different. Totally different. The only reason you don't know you're doing it is because the parallel earths that you're shifting to are so similar to the one that you just left, you hardly notice the change. But if you make a greater change in your energy, you'll shift to a parallel earth that is more different than the one you just left. And you'll start to notice that you're shifting all the time because of the difference between the two. But you're constantly shifting. And that constant shifting billions of times per second from parallel reality to parallel reality is what creates the side effect or illusion you call time in much the same way that you know frames on a film strip are static. Each frame has no movement in it. Each parallel reality has absolutely no motion in it whatsoever. But when you move the film strip in front of the projector light and the light goes through the frames in sequence, it creates on your theater screen the illusion of space, time and movement. Physical reality is exactly structured that way. When you keep shifting from parallel reality to parallel reality, you are literally shifting through all those realities billions of times a second. But there is no motion at all in any given single parallel reality. That's how time works. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 7:** Sounds great. I just have, so basically what you're saying is, you know like you were saying before our reality is like play-doh. We just play with it. There's no need to be worried about oh my gosh this news that the other thing we're contaminated it's all unless you are excited about being worried and excited about having difficulty.

**Bashar:** I am not going to take away your ability to choose to have pain and suffering if that's what you prefer.

**Questioner 7:** No, we prefer to stay.

**Bashar:** We are simply telling you that you don't have to choose that. It's up to you. We're telling you it's up to you. All choices are open to you. Let me put it to you this way. Understand the unconditional support and unconditional love that comes to you from creation. Because if creation has been willing to support you unconditionally in realities you don't prefer, why wouldn't it support you in realities that you do? It has already proven to you it will support you in anything you believe to be true. If it will support you in those things that you don't prefer, that is your proof that it will support you in the things you do prefer. All you have to do is choose them and you'll get the same support you've always gotten. You understand?

**Questioner 7:** Beautiful. Well, I look forward to seeing you on the next plane. All right. Yeah. Or the next spaceship or whatever comes along. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

---

**Questioner 8:** Yo, what's cracking, Bashar? How you doing, dog? All right, to you. Good day. Nice, nice, nice. I just had a question real quick. I wanted to know what you thought about the regressions that are going on with alien hybrids that are abducting people and they're going through hypnosis and all that about it.

**Bashar:** We understand. Now, first of all, understand that the idea that sometimes is called the abduction phenomenology on your planet is a variety of many different things and includes many different kinds of species. The species that most people on your planet often report seeing in those scenarios you typically call the grays. Understand the grays are not an ET alien species. One moment. Sorry, sir. I'm getting there. The grays are a mutated race of humans from a parallel earth. They have destroyed their reality and have no ability to reproduce. Therefore, they are coming into a parallel earth reality, yours among others, where there is still viable human DNA. They use that human DNA and mix it with their own to create a hybrid race of beings. There are to our awareness five hybrid races of which our civilization is one that is the result of that program. Now, we understand that many people on your planet have had fearful experiences with this. And in no way, shape, or form are we excusing the idea that some of the grays being devoid of an emotional component don't necessarily go about those interactions in the best or most positive way that they could because they simply don't understand anymore what an emotional fear reaction is. And therefore, to them, it's just business as usual. And why are you putting up such a fuss? Because you agreed to this on another level. And many of the beings that humans interact with in those scenarios are actually another version of the same soul in another incarnation. So they're interacting with themselves anyway and have set this whole thing up for the purpose of helping to create these hybrid species because this is also in a sense the next stage of evolution for your world as well. In other words, in about a thousand of your years, human beings will choose to no longer incarnate in the same form in which they are now existing on your planet, and Earth will become the sixth hybrid civilization.

**Questioner 8:** But seeing how hybrids have already kind of messed up their own...

**Bashar:** The grays, not the hybrids. The grays destroyed their world. The hybrids are the result of the blending of the grays and the humans from your reality to create a more positive reality that will allow them to move on and not destroy themselves again while at the same time giving you the benefit of their experience. Which is why in many abduction scenarios, you hear people reporting that the grays have told them, "We are you. And this is what happened to our world. Look to your ecology. Look to your environment. And don't do what we did." You understand?

**Questioner 8:** So human hybrid is good.

**Bashar:** There are many different kinds of hybrids. The idea is that all of you are hybrids already because the idea is that as we already said, whatever the indigenous hominid species was on your planet millions of years ago has already been genetically altered by ET beings a long time ago. So you're already part and parcel of beings from the stars. Many of them in a sense look like you because you actually look like them. So you're already hybridized. The hybridization that is going on now is for a positive reason. Many of you are starting to wake up to this idea. When you let go of your fear, you will see, you will know, you'll have more control. You'll have more awareness. You'll have more ability to interact in a conscious way in these programs. And you will remember that you agreed to this and what part you're playing in the creation of the evolution of your species on Earth.

**Questioner 8:** Thank you, Big Doug. I'll take that all into consideration, man. All right. It's up to you. All right. Thanks, brother.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

---

**Questioner 9:** Hello friend and you. Good day. I remember how you were talking about how we see simplicity as something that is very hard to achieve in our society.

**Bashar:** Yes. Speak up. Speak up so that all may hear you.

**Questioner 9:** He sees that sometimes simplicity is hard to achieve in our society. Yes. We spoke about that. Continue. Yeah. And you said that simplicity is actually not hard to achieve in any way whatsoever.

**Bashar:** No, it is not. Unless you believe it is, then it is.

**Questioner 9:** Well, see, that's the thing. I see simplicity as the result of an equilibrium that we are trying to reach.

**Bashar:** Yes. But you are not trying to reach it. You are reaching it.

**Questioner 9:** That we are reaching. Yes. So what's the difference?

**Bashar:** Well, I mean with equilibrium there is like a struggle between two. No. There is a balance. There may be a challenge in understanding but challenge does not necessarily imply a struggle in the negative connotation. Now first of all understand that there is going to be a little bit of interpretive leeway here because we understand that we are not speaking your language. We're simply sending thoughts and it's being translated into your language as best as is possible. The idea is that sometimes we know that different words in your society can have different meanings. So some semantic issues may to some degree be confusing this idea. But what we are simply saying is you can have challenge. We're not saying you're not going to have challenge in your life. We're not saying that you're not going to have situations that create you to grow. But it doesn't have to be the idea of suffering. It doesn't have to be the negative connotation. Challenge can still be exciting and still be a positive thing even as you are learning to create that equilibrium. So even the equilibrium really isn't much of a fight or something that's hard to go through. No, no, no. But whatever process you have created in order to get there is your process. And the paradox is the more you honor whatever you have created, the easier it will get and the faster you'll go into equilibrium. So it's about owning what you have created, not denying it, not pushing it away. It's owning and acknowledging whatever difficulties you have created and then allowing yourself to learn from them in order to not have them again. And by learning in that way, from the difficulties, using them in a positive way, you will achieve and create equilibrium more quickly. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 9:** Yes, that does. All right. And I had another question come to mind as I was over here. What does your species understand about the relationship between electromagnetism and gravity? This may be a little out of the scope of...

**Bashar:** It is different expressions of the same idea. Let us give you a very brief understanding of our perspective of the connection between those two experiences. All right. Pay attention now because we're going to do this briefly and relatively rapidly. Imagine if you will, and again please understand this is just a translation in your language. It is just a euphemism. It is just a symbol but it will help to illustrate the point. Imagine now if you will that nothing exists but a single particle. All right. Because nothing else but that particle exists. It is in a sense massless. It has no effect on anything. There's nothing to have an effect on. Nothing has an effect on it because nothing else exists. Are you with me so far? Yes. Because it is massless, that means it can move at infinite speed. Something that moves at infinite speed can be everywhere all at the same time. Therefore, what might appear to be this particle and that particle and this particle and that particle can thus then be understood to be all the same particle moving so fast that it appears next to itself at the same time. You with me? So when this particle moves, it moves in certain geometric patterns that are indicative of certain energy waves, energy frequencies. The different patterns in which that particle moves cause the particle to cross its own path again and again and again in certain ways. But in certain places it will cross its path more and in other places it will cross its path less. Where it crosses its path less it is less substantial. Where it crosses its path more it creates what you call different forces, different material expressions. But the idea is that the path itself is like a net, like a web. And in a sense, that web and the different phases of where that particle crosses itself, the different realms in which it solidifies or crystallizes itself all the way from the infinite down to physical reality represent the different layers that you call electromagnetism and gravity and physical matter and so on and so forth. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 9:** Actually, your metaphor does. It makes sense and it does provide food for thought. All right. Thank you.

**Bashar:** It is simply another way of looking at the idea of the substance you call water. You have water that can be steam. You can have water that can be liquid. You can have water that can be ice. It's still all water, but you get the different effects based on the different resonances and the different frequency states in which it exists. It is the same for all of creation. The different frequency or resonance states create different effects that interact in certain ways with each other based on your perception of them. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 9:** Yes. Thank you. That answers my questions. Thank you. I'll let the next person go. All right.

---

**Questioner 10:** Hi Bashar. And you good day. Oh, my head is spinning.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right. That sounds like fun.

**Questioner 10:** Yeah, I decided to come up here because I'm a mother and I have a nine-year-old son and I'm having some stuff come up with him, but I think it relates to a lot of bigger questions that I have about what I'm hearing from you is that the key to life is to show up with passion. Yes. To act on it.

**Bashar:** To act on passion because you are physical beings and if you don't act on it, you're not grounding it like a circuit. You have to act on it so that the energy coming through you that is representative of your passion will actually ground and flow into the physical world.

**Questioner 10:** So I want to talk to you about karma and the way I interpret karma is like what you're talking about the watermelon seed, being under pressure to be able to change and transform. Yes. And I feel that that transformational process is a relational process often that we are in relationship in that transformational experience. And I'm really curious about how you perceive the relationships between family like mother and son and where there's like a karma or like where there's an opportunity and like how you can speak to me because my son and I, I see so many youth and I experienced this myself with my own family rebelling, you know, and pushing up against and I'm saying to my son, what do you love? What do you believe in? Focus on it. And he's like, I want to play video games. I'm bored. And so how do I as a mom... All right. All right. Yeah, we get it. First of all, karma is of course completely self-imposed as you say. It is simply the recognition of a balance and equilibrium as we already just discussed. But the idea you are talking about has a lot to do also with the ways in which you communicate with different members of your society including your children. Understand that when you teach your children how to act on their passion, but when you are also acting on your passion in a way that allows you to invent, allows you to create ideas that you know they need to learn and hand them those ideas according to what excites them instead of forcing them to fit in a box. Then they will eagerly learn new things if you create the scenario of learning those things in the language that excites them. Does that make sense? If you find out what excites them and then you use your own creativity, use your own imagination to create scenarios, interactive scenarios that do two things. Create an idea that contains the information you want them to learn in a manner, in a style that is representative of what excites them, then they will be excited about learning that thing. At the same time, what you also need to teach them is you need to let them experience the consequences of their choices. Do you understand? The idea is have them act out, play with them and act out what they believe the consequences of their choices actually might be. Let them actually experience in a safe environment the consequences of the choices that they're making. The parents need to be creative enough, need to be playful enough, need to be imaginative enough to create the kind of interaction that will allow the child to want to learn the things they need to learn to exist in your reality. By styling them in the direction that they're excited to learn things in, and by giving them the opportunity to understand what the consequences of their choices are, you create within them a self-guiding mechanism that they can use for their entire life. But the parents and the teachers have to be equally clever and equally on top of acting on their passion in order to be capable of conceiving of the things that you can share with your children that will accomplish these ideas. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 10:** It does. Thank you so much. Does that answer your question sufficiently?

**Questioner 10:** It does. All right. Thank you. Thank you.

---

**Questioner 11:** Hi. And to you. Today I have a question. How would you describe love?

**Bashar:** Love is in that sense unconditional love is the natural underlying core vibration of existence and creation itself. Unconditional love is the vibrational frequency of existence itself.

**Questioner 11:** My question is our interpretation of love is not always necessarily love.

**Bashar:** Right. Exactly.

**Questioner 11:** Can you elaborate on that for us?

**Bashar:** Well, any condition... it's not always bad to have certain kinds of limitations. They can form a framework for certain kinds of experiences. So we're not saying that certain limitations are not always in that sense negative. But any limitation placed on unconditional love in that sense is not the actual core vibration of existence itself. It is some variation of that idea that is being designed to be experienced in a certain way for a particular purpose. It just depends on what that purpose is and how clear you are about why you're expressing that variation. You have to have your own integrity, your own clarity, your own honesty about what interpretation and what spin you're putting on unconditional love. Because many people on your planet interpret unconditional love in a way that is actually not an accurate interpretation. For example, some people might say, "Well, I will just let my child do anything and everything because I love them unconditionally." That's not unconditional love. Unconditional love is actually being a guide for them to allow them to know what will actually work best for them and help them understand what does not work for them. And sometimes because you're the parent and you have experience they don't have, that may mean that you have to share with them that certain limitations and certain prerogatives and certain priorities must happen in order for them to be best guided into their best self. So that doesn't mean that just because you're putting those ideas on them that you are not giving them unconditional love. And it doesn't mean that just letting them do anything they want is an expression of unconditional love. Do you understand the difference?

**Questioner 11:** I do. And my question is not so much how we raise our children. It's more in relationship to what that human piece is that prevents us from really embodying unconditional love and the confusion fear that might happen.

**Bashar:** Fear. Fear in that sense. If you have a negative definition, if you have a fear-based belief system that is out of alignment with your true self, then that fear-based definition by being out of alignment will allow you to experience the idea of love as fear. You see, you only have one energy. You only have one energy. Fundamentally, that energy is unconditional love. But if you filter that energy, if you flow that energy through belief systems that are out of alignment with your true core self, you'll experience that energy as the sensation you call fear. So if you know how to use fear in a positive way, you will recognize that when you feel fear, what it's showing you is that you have a belief system you're unaware of that's out of alignment with your true self. So you can say, "Oh, thank you, fear. Thank you. I love you unconditionally for bringing to my attention I have a belief I don't prefer." And as soon as you make fear your friend, it will dissolve into unconditional love, passion, and excitement. You understand? So that's how to use the polarity of unconditional love.

**Questioner 11:** How in a universal sense is love perceived?

**Bashar:** It is perceived in many different ways. It depends upon the being perceiving it. But fundamentally, it is perceived by most beings in creation as what you simply would express as absolute support, absolute knowingness that you belong, absolute awareness of your existence in the present. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 11:** Yes. Does that answer your question? It does. Thank you. But it's different for everyone in terms of your interpretive spin.

**Questioner 11:** Yes. All right. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Our unconditional love to you.

---

**Questioner 12:** Good day to you, Bashar. And good day to you. How's it going? Perfect. And you? Great. Two questions. Speak up. Speak up so that all may hear what you have to share. So, in the Bible, where does it talk about if you can give a few examples of ET contact and UFO activity?

**Bashar:** Ezekiel.

**Questioner 12:** Is that the only place?

**Bashar:** No.

**Questioner 12:** And was Jesus a hybrid ET?

**Bashar:** Jesus was a hybrid being but not an ET in the sense that you mean that he was from off planet but he is a hybridized being that became very aware of his true full connection in that sense to source and was attempting to demonstrate to all that you all have the same connection. Remember he didn't want followers he was attempting to reflect to you that you're all leaders.

**Questioner 12:** Yes. And one other question. It's about cats.

**Bashar:** Cats.

**Questioner 12:** How much more psychic are they from humans?

**Bashar:** It isn't that they are more psychic. It's that they're more consciously aware of the fact that they're psychic than many humans.

**Questioner 12:** How much more of the brain do they use than...

**Bashar:** No more. But all of theirs is focused in a different way. Understand? We know that you humans and again here is where it comes in as a perfect example. Watch your definitions. Many humans on your planet say, "Oh, we only use 10% of our brains." That is not true. You use 100% of your brain, but you're using 100% of your brain to make it seem as if you're only using 10%. There's a difference. When you know you're using 100% of your brain and start acting like you are, you will see that you are and experience that you are. So, it's not that the animals are using more. They just know they're using it all. Most of you don't. Make sense?

**Questioner 12:** Yes. Does that help you? Yes, it does. All right. Thank you. Thank you for a perfect exchange.

**Bashar:** Meow.

---

**Questioner 13:** Hello, Bashar. And of you, good day. So I've heard you talk about parallel dimensions and shifting realities into different frequencies.

**Bashar:** Speak up. Speak up.

**Questioner 13:** Into different frequencies.

**Bashar:** It's all about frequency. It's all about resonance.

**Questioner 13:** If you're shifting into different earths with different frequencies and your friends are there to create the illusion of consistency. Is there consciousness actually experiencing this different earth with you? So like because sometimes I wonder if like because you mentioned before like when people kind of disappear from your life or sometimes that can be representative of the fact that you have shifted to a parallel reality where they don't have a version of themselves.

**Bashar:** Sometimes not always but sometimes.

**Questioner 13:** All right. Thank you so much. Thank you.

---

**Questioner 14:** Hello Bashar. And you good day. I have a question and well I started listening to you about a year ago and since then a lot of things have changed within me and I've manifested really powerfully.

**Bashar:** Congratulations.

**Questioner 14:** Thank you. Thank you for that by the way.

**Bashar:** I had nothing to do with it. You made the choices.

**Questioner 14:** True. Well, there was one time when I was listening to you and I had an experience that I could only refer to as nearly like psychedelic where I could imagine my pineal gland being it was like vibrating and I was in this state and I saw waves of energy. I was wondering if you know what was happening to me.

**Bashar:** Yes. The pineal gland produces the substance many of you are familiar with called Dimethyltryptamine or DMT. DMT specifically is the chemical receptor in that sense, the chemical component that is vibrationally linked to the idea of being capable of perceiving other dimensions and other levels of consciousness. So as you amp up your frequency very often you will amp up the vibrational resonance of dimethyltryptamine production in the pineal gland which allows you to see into other dimensions.

**Questioner 14:** Awesome. It will become a more common symptom the more of you ramp up your frequency of energy. Thank you. Thank you. I have one more question. Is that okay? Yes. On the thought of there being twin flames and soul mates, I was wondering is there families of soul mates? Like because I've felt intense connections with multiple people.

**Bashar:** Yes, there are many different kinds of families and relationships that you might call variations of soulmates. But understand soulmates can express themselves in a variety of ways, not always in the way that you might think.

**Questioner 14:** Thank you. Thank you.

---

**Questioner 15:** Hello Bashar. And you good day. I actually had a question of my own about DMT. What should we take from the visions and experiences that mean so much to us when we take DMT externally?

**Bashar:** Any teacher or any teaching tool is there to show you what vibrations and abilities you already contain. Thus, then you don't necessarily need the substance. Again, it is telling you that you have the ability to trigger that frequency within yourself anywhere at any time you wish.

**Questioner 15:** How would we go about doing that?

**Bashar:** I just told you. If you remember what it felt like to be in that vibration, you are in that vibration while you remember it. You're creating that vibration. The only thing that makes you think you have to do something extra is that you have a definition that remembering the vibration is not the same thing as being in the vibration. But it is.

**Questioner 15:** Yes. Absolutely. All right. One last quick question. Was that too easy? No. It's perfect. Are we going to be able one day to be able to interact with other humans who are taking DMT externally?

**Bashar:** Why not? Fantastic. Remember, if it has relevance to your life, you will experience it.

**Questioner 15:** Thank you. Yes.

---

**Questioner 16:** Greetings, Bashar. And good day. I have a couple of questions. The first one, my wife and I had talked of this a few times and experienced that being here in this dimension is almost like what we would perceive as an avatar so to speak in a sense if you would agree with that.

**Bashar:** Well in a sense but again remember it's a euphemism. It you could say it's an analogy to the idea of what you do when you go underwater scuba diving. You need to put on the mask and you need to put on the breather and you need to put on the tanks and you need to put on the fins to go and be able to live and breathe underwater and then you come up and you remove all those things. Well, physical reality is a similar idea. You put on this idea of a body that has these physical requirements and you swim around in physical reality for a while and then you leave your body and you get rid of all those things and you go back to what you might consider to be your natural self. You understand? But really in a sense it isn't that your spirit or your soul is in your body. In reality your body is in your spirit or your soul. The idea is that you're simply concentrating your focus in such a way as to have what you call a physical experience. But the physical experience is happening inside your consciousness. And all you're doing when you die or go out of body is you're simply expanding your point of view again to be something broader than the focus you had that you call physical experience. You don't actually exist in your body. Your body exists in your consciousness. It's just an idea.

**Questioner 16:** I've never thought of it that way, but that makes sense.

**Bashar:** Well, now you can. How exciting. Well, thank you for that. My second question, now it's kind of touching on the last question that the last gentleman had. Basically the things we do everything here that we're expanding our consciousness with everything from yoga to meditation, psychedelics, music and all these experiences are those different ways of, would you describe it as opening up the bandwidth to our higher self, the consciousness.

**Bashar:** All of these things we refer to as permission slips. Every tool, every technique, every idea, every ritual, every object that you use in that way to trigger expansion of your consciousness is a permission slip. You are saying I have a belief system that believes that if I do this thing, it will allow me or I will allow myself to give myself permission to be more of who I am. It's a permission slip. It's not doing it for you. You're doing it yourself, but you're using those tools, techniques, and rituals as permission slips to make it all right to give yourself permission to be more of who you are. Doesn't matter what you use. It's up to you. If you believe it works, use it. If you don't believe it works, don't use it. It's that simple. It's just a permission slip. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 16:** It makes absolute sense because it's all coming from within you anyway.

**Bashar:** Yes, it is. And the point really is to get to the point where you understand it's a permission slip and you no longer need the permission slip. You're just willing to give yourself permission to be who you are no matter what because that's what you prefer and you don't need another reason except that I permit myself. Because at that point when you arrive at that point when you simply choose what you prefer it's because there simply is no other choice for you. Period.

**Questioner 16:** Make sense? Makes absolute sense. I'm pleased to have this conversation with you. Thank you, Bashar.

**Bashar:** So are we. Thank you very much.

---

**Questioner 17:** Hello Bashar. And are you good day? So this question is about disease. The suffering that these bodies experience. Disease. And some are seem to be communicable. Some are called incurable.

**Bashar:** Nothing is incurable. Can you speak into a little bit about that? So we have some certain therapies that are cutting the edge like ozone, certain herbs.

**Bashar:** Permission slips. Any tool, any technique, any ritual of any kind is a permission slip. Some of those things will work for some people, some of them will not because people simply need to find whatever permission slip is most aligned with the belief system that they believe will help them because it is their belief systems and energy fields and resonance that created the disease to begin with. You understand? It's interesting how some people can have a disease and they don't know they have a disease. But it is because they are not willing to look at the belief system and they are allowing it to remain unconscious because they are too afraid to look at it. It is fear that causes most manifestations of disease. Fear to look at the things within yourself that you believe might be true. Nothing negative you could ever look at within yourself will ever actually empirically be true. But you might be afraid that it is and afraid to look at it. And the longer you're afraid to accept a portion of yourself, then the longer that portion will begin to shout and protest and get your attention in whatever way it needs to. And if it has to create an imbalance within you to do so, and get you to face that it belongs to you as a part of you too, and get you to love it as unconditionally as you may love every other part, then it will do whatever it can to grab your attention, even if it has to destroy you to do so. So if you don't prefer that, the more you pay attention to everything going on within your consciousness, within your beliefs, the more transparent you are with yourself, the more honest you are with yourself about what you hold to be true, the more disease-free you will be.

**Questioner 17:** So therapies for curing, for healing are basically based on belief.

**Bashar:** It is all based on belief. There is nothing in physical reality that is not. It doesn't matter that there might be a physicalized component or a physicalized reflection that you call chemistry or physics or medicine or science. Those are still just reflections of what you already believe in your consciousness to be true for you. So it's all based on belief. It's all based on consciousness. It's all based on vibration. It's all based on resonance. It's all based on state of being. That's why we say circumstances do not matter. Only state of being does because it's state of being that creates circumstances. Circumstances don't create state of being. It's the other way around. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 17:** Yes. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Then our unconditional love to you.

**Questioner 18:** I exist in this universe and I surround myself by people who exist in this universe.

I wish to observe certain things and the people I surround myself with I surround them with people who wish to observe similar things. How do you have advice to deal with those who wish to observe opposing things within me? Things that I don't wish to observe.

**Bashar:** When you are truly vibrating in the resonance of your true natural state, you won't care what you observe because it will always have a positive effect on your life. Good day. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 18:** Excellent. Thank you.

**Bashar:** You see, you must understand that as you expand your consciousness, the paradox is you don't become less aware of the negative, you become more aware of the negative. That doesn't mean you experience the negative more, but you become more aware of it. Because all that is is all positivity and all negativity. And it must be kept in balance in order for you to choose to experience what you prefer. So if you invalidate the negative in any way, you're actually putting energy on it and making it more likely to manifest. If you simply let it be as equally valid as any other positive choice you could make, then you are free to be in equilibrium and free to choose what you wish to experience without invalidating that which you don't prefer. It's all about balance and acceptance and acknowledgement. It's not about exclusion. It's about inclusion, integration, not segregation and separation. You can't run away from anything. There's nowhere to run away to. There is nothing outside. It must be that you must allow and accept and acknowledge that everything is a part of you as all that is. And thus then by allowing and validating everything, you are able to thus then have the power and the freedom to choose to experience what you prefer out of all of those choices that are simply equally valid choices. No one or the other having any more or less importance or need to manifest than any other. And then you are in your center point, your place of perfect power, your place of perfect passion, your place of perfect peace. And that's all there really is to it.

