---
heading: Part 1
title: "Dream a Little Dream"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2009-09-19
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 720
tags: ['']
---



Dreams can be many things. 

Sometimes they are simply the idea of your mind processing certain events of the day, but other times they are also memories—whether they be literal or symbolic memories of experiences that you may be having on other levels of consciousness, even experiences you may be having in other realms, other dimensions, and other realities.

But that then you cannot necessarily make sense of in your language, in your symbolism, beyond a certain point.

So the physical mind, when you wake up and reconnect with your physical reality, you will create for yourself some form of representation of an experience that you may not have been able to understand in physical reality.

But you were capable of experiencing in non-physical reality or other dimensions. 

But in wanting to remember that experience, in wanting to connect to that experience, you have to have at least some symbolic representation or interpretation of something for which you have no words, for which you have no way to frame in the actual reality in which you had the experience.

Everything is already here in now. It's not that you're attracting something from somewhere else. You're simply allowing yourself to change your frequency to match, to be resonant in harmony with what is already here that was simply here but invisible to you.

Similarly, dreams are often the playing out, stretching out in a physical space-time linear way, an experience that you actually have in a timeless state.

You have the entire experience all at once, instantaneously.

But then it reels itself out, spools itself out in your physical mind and takes whatever time it takes to create the symbology, to create the symbolic story that represents the experience that you had. But the experience itself may not have taken any time at all.

So again, it is similar to the idea of a telepathic communication where all the information is there instantly, but the idea of incorporating that information into your physical reality may require that you stretch it out into words, into pictures, into some form where it seems as if the information is coming one step at a time after the other so that you can make linear sense of it and apply it in your physical reality, which after all is a space-time experience.

But it's all there right here, right now, all at once. The entire dream, and every dream you will ever have, every experience you will ever have, exists right now. You tap into them at whatever rate, at whatever pace, and whatever timing is appropriate for your process in terms of your growth and what you believe to be true for you. But all the dreams exist right now.

And in addition to that, of course, your physical life, in a sense—as we have said many times—is a type of dream, at least from the perspective of the higher mind, and certainly from the perspective of the Soul. You are the Soul's dream right now. The soul, in a sense, goes to sleep by projecting itself into the idea of a physical experience and chooses to forget, in a sense, that it is an expanded soul in a timeless reality that knows everything it needs to know. And by going to sleep in that way, it dreams of itself being in this physical reality in a kind of a limited way so that it can explore a certain idea free from any other idea intervening or interfering with that physical dream.

So you yourselves, your life experiences, are the dreams your soul is having. And you are going through that reality, going through that experience to feed back to the soul when you wake up, so to speak, upon death, and thus then can allow yourself to know that this is a dream and that you had this dream experience, and that whatever it is you did experience in this dream adds to your Soul's understanding of itself by having been able to experience itself from a different point of view than it is capable of experiencing itself from in a timeless reality, or at least a reality with not the same kind of time experience that you have in the physical world.


### **Lucid Dreaming and Template Level Reality**

Now you know, many of you that you talked about the idea of experiencing what you call lucid dreams, and this is a very special kind of an experience. The idea of waking up in the dream and knowing that you are dreaming gives you unprecedented ability to, in a sense, control the dream, to determine what the dream experience shall be consciously while you are still in that dream state.

Now that lucid dream state takes place in what we have talked about called the template level reality. That borderline between the non-physical higher mind and the physical mind is the template level reality where you, in a sense, plan out the idea of your day like a blueprint, plan out many aspects of your life like a blueprint, like a chart. And when you dream, you can go back there and rearrange things. You can look at the agreements you have made, explore the themes you have chosen to explore, you can rearrange how it is you go about exploring those things in the template level reality. And thus then, when you reconnect to physical reality, you can thus then experience the manifestation physically of the rearrangement you have made in the energetic quasi-physical template level reality that determines all shapes and sizes of things, all physical experiences that you have.

So lucid dreaming is, in a sense, allowing yourself to wake up closer to being the higher mind expression, closer to being in balance with the higher mind in that template level reality.

Now you are inventing many different kinds of techniques and permission slips and even technologies that give you more opportunity to wake up, to have lucid dreams as you prefer to, as you desire to, and whatever way you so choose. One such technology that now exists on your planet is called a rapid eye movement mask, REM mask. And the idea is that when you are wearing this mask, you will be given signals through infrared lights that will flash through your eyelids, and you will learn to train yourself to recognize that when you see those flashes in your dream state, that you will actually remember that that is a signal you are dreaming. And thus then, by remembering that is a signal that you are dreaming, you will wake up in the dream. It also comes with the ability to let the mask know that you have woken up so it will not keep flashing you and disturb the now lucid dream that you are having, which will give you the opportunity to thus then really experience that template level reality, to actually wake up in that dimension between dimensions and really explore the blueprint and really see how you can rearrange things consciously instead of simply allowing it to be an unconscious experience for you.

So there is that now available to you. You can look it up and allow yourselves to participate in the raising of your Consciousness and allowing the Awakening of your Consciousness in that dream state so that you become more Lucid not only when you're dreaming, but by going into that template level reality in a conscious state, in a lucid dream, and having control and knowing you are dreaming, knowing in a sense you are, quote-unquote, "out of the body," knowing you are an expanded Consciousness, knowing that you are in that limbo state, that reality dimension between your physical and higher mind. You can connect to both the physical and higher mind in a new way, in a much more Lucid way. And when you do it that way in the lucid dream state, then when you reconnect with the physical mind when you wake up in the morning and go about your day, you'll be capable of remembering more and more of how to tap into that template level reality while you are having the physical dream, and it will allow you more strongly a sensation of being able to manifest exactly as you prefer, exactly as your most harmonious vibration.

You will begin to really see that everything is here and now. You'll begin to really sense and observe the structure of existence and know that manifestation is not about attracting things from a distance but simply about aligning vibrationally with things that are already here to the point where you can finally perceive them because you understand that all those things and anything you will ever manifest already exists in that template level reality. All the blueprints are there right here, right now. And the more conscious awareness and recognition you have, and the more conscious participation you can create for yourself in that lucid dream state, the more Lucid you will be in your physical dream, and you will thus then be able to expand in a much, much, much more conscious way.

Sound exciting? All right, so that's what this is all about. And even in these interactions that we are having with you right now, the idea is that we are giving off a frequency that is the frequency of the template level reality so that you can begin to relax into that, let it wash over you, let it wash through you, let it harmonize with your neurological net so that when you go to sleep this night of your time, you will know that you've already been infused with the seed of that vibration of Lucidity, that vibration of the template level reality, so you can connect more consciously with the higher mind and the physical mind in a balanced way. Know that you are being infused with that right now so that you are awake in the dream we are having right now, for we are dreaming all of you and you are dreaming all of us, and we are the dreams of all that is, and we dream all that is into existence even as it dreams us into awareness.

Wake up, wake up, wake up into yourselves more and more and more every day in every way by acting on your highest joy and take advantage of all the permission slips that you create to become more Lucid in any way, shape, or form that you possibly can. Do not be afraid. Be willing, be willing to dive deep into the subconscious and unconscious minds, for those are actually higher levels than the conscious mind and contain all the answers to all the questions that you have. When you go into the subconscious, when you go into the unconscious, you are actually much closer to the template level reality, much closer to the higher mind, for that higher mind creates the physical Consciousness by, in a sense, coming down through the template level reality, coming down through the unconscious level reality, coming down through the subconscious level reality, and into physical Consciousness.

So even though many of you may think that the subconscious and the unconscious are deep down beneath the conscious mind, in fact, the conscious physical mind is the lowest level of the three. So thus then, anytime you go into your subconscious mind of feelings, anytime you go into the unconscious mind of beliefs and definitions, you're actually going up the ladder, up the scale, up in vibration to the template level reality and linking very lucidly with the higher mind and forming that balance point. So do not be afraid to investigate those Realms of Consciousness within you because they can only lead you to more of yourself. Do not fear the unknown; the unknown is where the rest of you resides. The only thing you will ever discover there is more of yourself. There is nothing to be afraid of.

We thank you for dreaming with us this day, this night of your time, and in return for the gift you are giving of allowing us to experience each and every one of your dreams, I ask you now: in what way may we...

***

### **Conversation 1: Michael – On Eternal Being and Identity**

**Michael:** Greetings Bashar and are you good day? It's a pleasure to talk to you.

**Bashar:** And you as well.

**Michael:** I wanted to ask you a question about how I can know that I'm an eternal being. There are so many things that I have knowledge of and they feel so concrete, but the idea of myself as an eternal being still feels like a question to me. Do you exist?

**Bashar:** I do.

**Michael:** Do you understand that you cannot become non-existent? That I guess is what I don't believe yet.

**Bashar:** All right. Well, by definition, non-existence doesn't exist. True? So how can you become something that doesn't exist?

**Michael:** But it is possible for something to change and not be what it was before. So I guess that doesn't mean you don't exist.

**Bashar:** But do my Consciousness...

**Michael:** Yes.

**Bashar:** You are what you are. You are a perspective of all that is. The perspective never changes because that's your core reflection, that's your core being. The identity of yourself is yourself is an aspect reflection of all that is. When you go through this process that many of you have talked about of expanding your Consciousness, becoming more aligned, becoming one with all that is, many of you over the ages have assumed that that process of blending and harmonizing with all that is means that you lose your identity. No, just the opposite. Your identity becomes stronger. You see all the different levels from your perspective, and when you fully harmonize with all that is, you actually recognize that you are all that is and there is nothing else. It's just your identity that's left. And from that level, you recognize that everything that exists is an aspect of you. The "you" is always there. So the harmonization with all that is doesn't remove the identity; it expands the identity. You become the only thing that remains, and that identity even exists after death.

**Michael:** Yes, of course, because death is way down the line from what I'm talking about here. Talking about the total blend of the idea of your being with all that is. That's many, many, many levels above the idea of physical death. And I've had experiences of that sort of blending with all that is, yes, certainly during my living life.

**Bashar:** I guess and here you still are and here I still am. Absolutely.

**Michael:** And so I guess the... wouldn't it be nice to get a guarantee that after one's death...

**Bashar:** You have the guarantee. That's what we are saying. The very fact that you have an identity at all means the identity is always present. Even though it may change in certain ways, the core idea of an identity doesn't, because that's the first law: You exist. You exist. Not just "you exist," *YOU EXIST*. That's where the emphasis needs to be in the statement of the first law. Therefore, you will always be you no matter in what form you exist, no matter on what level you exist. You exist. And you are necessary to exist as you. The "you" part can never be dissolved because if it did, then all that is wouldn't have your perspective and all that is wouldn't be all that is. So in order for all that is to always be all that is, you have to remain a component as you in some way, shape, or form, knowing yourself as you no matter how you may change. Does that make more sense?

**Michael:** It does. So then why do we play the death game? This game where we feel such loss and we feel such separation from those who have passed?

**Bashar:** Because of your definition of that process, and also because it serves you to forget certain things so that you can actually have the experience of discovering things. But you don't necessarily have to take it so far that you actually feel a loss. It's just like really changing clothes or walking from one room to another in the same house.

**Michael:** It's funny. While I can cogitate that and understand that intellectually, sometimes emotionally I don't feel it.

**Bashar:** That's all right. If you really want absolute proof, you could commit suicide and still see that you're here. Not that I'm suggesting it.

**Michael:** I wasn't planning on it.

**Bashar:** No, all right. But I guarantee you everything already exists and that can't change. It's one of the basic laws.

**Michael:** So why does this existence feel so real to me?

**Bashar:** Because it needs to in order for you to participate in it. That's what belief systems do. Belief systems carry within them a mechanism that makes that belief seem to be exclusive of other beliefs. If it didn't, you'd be getting input from so much more of yourself you wouldn't be able to focus, you wouldn't be able to function in a physical life.

**Michael:** And I assume I've had physical lives before this one.

**Bashar:** Well, yes and no. Because you see, that's the point. That's why we say everything exists now. You have never had any other life but this. The idea is that it's not reincarnation; it's multiple simultaneous incarnations. And every single one of those incarnations is a different person. They're not you; you're not them. The idea is that you can create the experience of the linear life-to-life, life-after-life kind of experience, but that's just a perspective. It's an illusionary continuity perspective. It's not actually mechanically what's happening. Every single being in every single life is always that being, always that being. So all those different lives that are connecting, you're cross-connecting to them energetically and downloading information from those simultaneous existences, whatever information you believe helps you in this life. Just as all those other people in all those other lives are doing with you. And other people you cross-connect energetically and informationally to all those lives. And when you make a cross connection that way, because you live in a linear SpaceTime experience, you perceive those cross connections that are going on right now as memories. That's why you think they're actually happening in the past. That's why you think you've been that person. Because it feels like a memory because of your space-time point of view. But it's not really a memory in the sense that it's in the past. It is actually a cross connection happening right now because all those lives exist right now. All those people exist right now as themselves just as you do. And that will also never change. They will always be them; you will always be you. Because there's no room for you to become anyone else. Everything that exists fills existence. All the people that exist throughout all time, all space, fill existence. You can't take their place; they can't take yours. Existence is full.

**Michael:** Gotcha. Does that help?

**Bashar:** It does.

**Michael:** One last thing. I know you have said that we sort of remake ourselves moment to moment to moment, yes, and that we can change our reality around us.

**Bashar:** Well, you do not... you can. You do that automatically. You're shifting through billions of parallel reality experiences every second. That's how you create the illusion of time, right?

**Michael:** So and everyone's doing that right now independently?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Michael:** So then how is it that you travel with someone else by agreement so that you're creating similar experiences so that you're on a similar wavelength so that you can experience similar things simultaneously, including creating your version of them in your reality as they create their version of you in their reality, and you're interacting with your version of them and they're interacting with their version of you? Right? Because that's really what it sort of boils down to for me is that I have a partner that I'm traveling through life with, yes, and I would really like lots of lives with them, you know.

**Bashar:** It's there. You have whatever serves you. You can make any number of cross connections. But again, remember all those connections are being made from the present, and you will connect to whatever serves you. Nothing will be left out. So once this life ends, so to speak, so to speak, and I wake up as my soul... as your spirit self, as my spirit self, then do I go back to sleep and experience myself in another manifestation somewhere?

**Bashar:** That's your choice. Like I said, you can create the experience of reincarnation, but that's not what is actually mechanically happening with the structure of existence. That's just a point of view of the structure. It's an experience within the structure, but it's not a change of the structure because they're all happening instantaneously.

**Michael:** Yes, got it. So you're just shifting your point of view to have a different kind of an experience, but that doesn't mean the you-you are now goes away.

**Bashar:** This you will always be this you. And another part of your oversoul will have an experience with this you, even if the you-you think you are plays the game of pretending to have another point of view as another person. That doesn't negate the person you are now. That person always exists, and the spirit version of that person always exists simultaneously. This is one of the reasons why when people die and people that are still living wonder why they don't show up more often. The idea is that when you die, you realize that another Spirit version of the person that still has a life is already there, and you're interacting with them anyway. So you're interacting with their Spirit version of them, not their physical version of them. Yes. And therefore, since they're already there, why do you need to go back to the physical version unless there's a real reason to? Because again, that would be like leaving your friend to go visit a portion of your friend. Wow. Friend. Wow. Okay. These are all euphemisms as they are described in your language, but I think you get the point from the illustration.

**Michael:** I do. All right. And the reason we don't have a clearer understanding of that soul part of ourselves is because we choose to narrow ourselves in order to explore a question in this sort of SpaceTime reality.

**Bashar:** Yes. Although now, because this is the transformational age, these kinds of things can come to the Forefront of your Consciousness and you don't have to experience quite as much limitation as you used to. That's why we're having this conversation now, because it's possible for you to understand how to make those kinds of connections and then have the kind of limitations that are really only just those that are necessary for the themes you're exploring, instead of a whole bunch more limitations that are not necessarily relevant for you to be who you truly are.

**Michael:** Gotcha. We don't need as many limitations as we've had in the past. Make sense?

**Bashar:** Yes, it does. Does that help you?

**Michael:** Yes, very much so. Why thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

*(Applause)*

***

### **Conversation 2: Questioner – On the Unmanifested Self and God**

**Questioner:** Hello Bashar and are you good day?

**Bashar:** How are you?

**Questioner:** It's an honor to be in your presence.

**Bashar:** Perfect. Speak up and be bold so that all may hear what you have to share.

**Questioner:** The question I had... your piece of technology that you have named Michael kind of tall has this limit here, but the question I had was about the unmanifested self. What is the process of self-awareness for the unmanifested particle? Like, how does that come into play?

**Bashar:** I have just described it, but I will describe it again. Everything exists already. Everything is already, in a sense, manifest, although you may not perceive that it is Manifest. The idea, therefore, of manifestation of what you are calling the unmanifested part is the realization that it already exists. It's already here. And simply being the state of being that is representative of the frequency of that portion of the manifested you, and then you will perceive it, you'll experience it because it's already here and you now match the vibration. Does that make sense?

**Questioner:** A little bit. So the part that was unmanifested, just pure awareness of only itself, was that spawned from the void? Was there... oh, you are talking about the original manifest... the self, the pure self. You talking about the All That Is?

**Bashar:** Yes. Oh, all right. Well, first there is the One. Now the One has absolutely no experience of itself, right? Because there is no other, in a sense, to compare itself to. So without the other, you cannot know the self. But since the One is, in a sense, everything, that included one part of it that did have the reflective potentiality. And that reflective potentiality is the All That Is that actually does recognize itself okay as the One and everything. So there is the One with no self-recognition and the All That Is with ultimate self-recognition. Okay? Does that make sense?

**Questioner:** Yes, it does. But that happened in no time. Okay. So all things are an extension of that unmanifested self. Now my question is: Can a being be evolved enough to actually leave the parameters of its God and maybe travel in the void and maybe see another God or something like that? Can something actually leave the realm of...

**Bashar:** But it depends upon what you're defining as God. Because any description you can have is simply All That Is on a different level. Call it God, call it Creator, Call It Whatever You Wish. Okay? It's still a part of All That Is because there's nothing outside of All That Is. Okay? But if you're creating divisions—which you do within All That Is—and one particular division has, let's just say, at its peak or Pinnacle, a particular representation of God or All That Is, then since it is just a representation within a limited Dimension, then certainly you can't expand beyond that particular representation of God. Okay? But you can never expand beyond All That Is. Okay?

**Questioner:** So my next question: The All That Is aspect of God. Now, could there be some distance in the void where there's... it's not an All That Is aspect of God?

**Bashar:** All That Is is it.

**Questioner:** But my question is, could there be other All That Is's where they don't interact with each other? You see, there's All That Is in our particular...

**Bashar:** Well, no. You can have a level, you can have a division of All That Is that within a Relative Dimension may seem to be All That Is. But just listen to the phrase: if it's still a division, it's not All That Is. And if you're going to say, well, there are any number... there are 13 All That Is's, then all 13 together would actually be the All That Is, wouldn't they?

**Questioner:** But a chain of 13. Could there be another chain of 13 or another chain of 13?

**Bashar:** Yes, there can be as many as you wish. What I'm attempting to get you to focus on, though, is the literalness of the phrase "All That Is." So you can break All That Is down into as many divisions as you want—actually, it has infinite divisions—but the point is, you're still breaking it into divisions, which means that a division, no matter how Grand and big in scope it may seem, is not actually still the All That Is, which is all divisions.

**Questioner:** But if we go back to the unmanifested aspect of it, the pure self of it, the part that hasn't been brought into manifestation...

**Bashar:** No, no, you're mistaken. There is no unmanifested part of All That Is because it is All That Is. You have to go to a lower level to have an experience of unmanifest.

**Questioner:** Okay. So there's life in this unmanifested aspect of it?

**Bashar:** Yes, of course.

**Questioner:** So could there be other unmanifested life somewhere separate from this particular unmanifested life?

**Bashar:** There can be the experience of different and seemingly separate unmanifested lives. But again, it only seems so because, again, remember, you're using your manifestation powers to create an experience of lack of manifestation.

**Questioner:** Yes, I understand that there is really no such thing as an actual lack of manifestation. There is only the experience of the appearance of lack of manifestation because nothing in All That Is is actually unmanifested. And therefore, by having the experience of lack of manifestation, that's simply from the perspective of All That Is another manifestation within All That Is: the manifestation of the lack of manifestation. Okay?

**Bashar:** Make sense?

**Questioner:** Yes, it does. My final question, sir... oh, sir, so formal.

**Bashar:** Yes, just honor. It's just honor.

**Questioner:** All right, thank you. Okay. The things like... uh, I heard you speak of like Astro body, out-of-body experiences. It's a tuning, you so you become like a conduit for these higher frequency sources and whatnot. Yes. So when there's like things like DMT, tryptamine, and things like that, there it was meant to come into people's lives then so they can actually access these higher frequencies and speak from and act from these higher frequencies so they can be taught?

**Bashar:** Yes. The idea is that once you're taught the frequency, with very little practice you don't necessarily need the teacher anymore. You can simply achieve that state on your own. And that's just by remembering the state when you were there. Okay? And when you remember and recognize that remembering what something felt like is the same thing as actually feeling it now, and stop making the separation between the two, then you'll be in whatever state you prefer to be in.

**Questioner:** All right. Make sense?

**Bashar:** Yes, it does.

**Questioner:** Thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you for...

*(Applause)*

***

### **Conversation 3: Andre – On Excitement and Music**

**Andre:** Sure. Oh, no apology necessary. Hello Andre, you good day?

**Bashar:** This is very exciting.

**Andre:** It is. Um, well, I don't really know what exactly... there's a bunch of stuff in my head that I know that I want to like converse with you about.

**Bashar:** Yes, we'll Converse. All right.

**Andre:** Well, you don't need a question. Okay. So I feel like my highest excitement is well, to be excited.

**Bashar:** Yes. About what?

**Andre:** Well, about music.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right. Thank you.

**Andre:** But I mean, well, and the thing is like, I know that I... I can get into this state of being where it's like I... I'm just fully there in the immediate experience of the moment.

**Bashar:** Do you mean fully here? Fully here in the immediate experience of the moment? Fully there? Here? Fully here?

**Andre:** Thank you. In the immediate experience of the moment. Yes.

**Bashar:** All right. Congratulations.

**Andre:** And in this state... yes. I, in the process of my... of my creating music, for example, if it's learning a new skill, yes, and it's like learning like how to make electronic music, for example, using a computer. Yes. As I'm in this particular State of Consciousness, yes, every aspect of this... of the process that I'm exploring, I'm really just... it's sinking into me deeply and I'm really experiencing it fully.

**Bashar:** And well, that's the channeling State indeed. You understand that you all do have the ability to channel. That's the channeling State.

**Andre:** And I find that I don't want to take action in direction of my excitement of making this music unless I'm fully in this state of being.

**Bashar:** Well, all right. Then why not simply choose to be fully in the state of being so you will always be able to take action?

**Andre:** I like that. Uh, I'm wondering...

**Bashar:** All right. Well, I'm happy you like it. So if you like it, why not do it? Not that you have to. Just asking.

**Andre:** Because I noticed that I'm not there.

**Bashar:** And I think that... yes, I know you're not there. You said you were here.

**Andre:** Well, I will do that. It's up... I'm doing it right now.

**Bashar:** Yes. And I am looking forward to exploring that more. Please. All of you, don't assume that just because the sensation of the state changes that that means you're not still in the same general state of excitement. Excitement doesn't mean you have to be jumping up and down. Excitement can be a sense of meditative balanced peace as well. Excitement can be expressed in a number of ways. When we use your word "excitement," we simply mean the body's physical translation of the vibration that's in alignment with your true core being. It can be expressed in any number of ways. So don't misunderstand and think that just because the energy level changes or the energy expression changes that that's not necessarily an expression of your excitement.

**Andre:** Okay. Yes, yes, yes. All right. Yes. Um, anything else?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Andre:** Yes. Uh, so would... is it feels like my highest excitement then is to allow myself to be in that state.

**Bashar:** All right. And then you can act from that state on whatever opportunity presents itself to you at any given moment that contains the highest amount of excitement by reflection. Because when you say the highest excitement, there can be many expressions of your highest excitement that arrive in your life, and often there have to be. Otherwise, you wouldn't have any motion, you wouldn't have any movement, you wouldn't have a path to take if you didn't have multiple expressions of your highest excitement. Doesn't have to just be one thing. Coming here tonight, I'm assuming, was an act of excitement for you?

**Andre:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Well, there you see. Didn't really have anything to do with your music, true. But you acted on it because it was the most exciting thing I'll assume that you were able to act on at that particular moment.

**Andre:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Yes. Well, then there you go. It's simple as that. Whatever presents itself to you as an option out of all the options you have available to you at any given moment, just act on the one that you can act on best that contains the highest excitement out of all the options, and act on it with absolutely no assumption, insistence, or expectation as to what the outcome ought to be. That's the whole formula. That's all you have to keep doing. That's it. Simple enough?

**Andre:** Yes, it is.

**Bashar:** All right. Unless of course you would like to complicate it and make it more difficult, which I won't prevent you from doing because I know that many of you love to complicate things. But you don't have to.

**Andre:** Um, in addition, I have a question. I'm wondering if there's any... uh, any thing that through you can be reflected to me from my higher mind about what do you think I'm doing right now?

**Bashar:** Well, exactly that. Well, then I am reflecting to you from your higher mind, and anything that you need to know I'll tell you. Anything I don't tell you, you don't need to know.

**Andre:** H. Is there any way to induce lucid dreaming without technology?

**Bashar:** I'm sure there is. A way? Of course, there are many ways. You have many books and many people that have done it. You could go talk to them. You could go read one of those books. You could use your imagination. You can do many number of kinds of things to induce lucid dreaming. We've already given you a few ideas. Go and find some more ideas on your own. Okay?

**Andre:** Yes. Okay. Unless it doesn't excite you.

**Bashar:** It does excite me.

**Andre:** Well, then go.

**Bashar:** All right. Go forth lucidly to find out information on how to lucid dream.

**Andre:** Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:** And when you start doing that, before you know it, while you're looking for that information, you'll suddenly realize that you are lucidly dreaming. Okay?

**Andre:** Yes. Yes. All right. Does that help you?

**Bashar:** It does. I have one final question.

**Andre:** Yes. I doubt that, but go ahead.

**Bashar:** Can't argue with that. Uh, I'm wondering if you could just give me any kind of cool thing about the Santa Barbara area. Just like something I can go adventuring for, exploring. Or if there's nothing else...

**Bashar:** You could go adventuring and exploring in the Santa Barbara area. Is that not cool enough?

**Andre:** It sounds good to me.

**Bashar:** One Moment. One Moment. A nearby area is called Galita. Yes. Go there. Or not. Okay.

**Andre:** Thank you. Pleasant dreams to you.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

*(Applause)*

***

### **Conversation 4: Questioner – On Bashar’s Preferences**

**Questioner:** Hello Bashar and are you good day? Are you enjoying the planet?

**Bashar:** Always.

**Questioner:** What are your preferences when you visit?

**Bashar:** What I'm doing right now. What I do at any given moment: reflecting energy, balancing energy, interacting, conversing, dreaming lucidly with all of you, taking trips, exploring other realities, exploring other civilizations, interacting with other civilizations, telling them about all of you, telling you about some of them, doing art. All of these things excite me. I only do what excites me.

**Questioner:** Did you go swimming when you're here?

**Bashar:** I am not physically on the surface of your planet.

**Questioner:** But do you experience it in another way?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** That's nice.

**Bashar:** All agree?

**Questioner:** Have you experienced anything that is not to your liking?

**Bashar:** No. There are things that are not in my preference, but that has nothing to do with whether I like it or not. Because all things are equal. I can recognize what I don't prefer without placing any kind of a value judgment on what I don't prefer.

**Questioner:** That's amazing.

**Bashar:** If you say so, I do say so authoritatively.

**Questioner:** Well said. Very good. Good. Then it's nice to meet you.

**Bashar:** And you as well. Bye. Anything else?

**Questioner:** No, no. That's all. Thank you.

*(Applause)*

***

### **Conversation 5: Andre – On the Afterlife and Death**

**Andre:** Hi Andre, you good day? Um, I'm nervous.

**Bashar:** Okay. Um, you are excited.

**Andre:** Yes, I guess.

**Bashar:** You guess? All right. Then you are nervous. The subject matter... um, I'm not excited about the matter. Um, I'm not excited about the subject matter. Um, I just have a few questions. One about a general understanding of the afterlife. What does that look like? What is that if we leave this physical world?

**Bashar:** Well, there are certain things that generally most of you will experience. First of all, recognize that you are going beyond the normal parameters of linear SpaceTime. There may still be the ability to create a kind of a sense of time playing out there, but it's nothing like the kind of time experience you have in physical reality. In physical reality, when you think a thing, when you believe a thing, you have a time lag of manifestation of experiencing that thing to some degree. In non-physical reality, in the spirit world, you don't. Whatever you think is instantaneously manifested around you. Okay?

The idea, however, is that the process is, for most of your people, the idea that you will suddenly float out of your body. You may recognize that your body is lying down there. You may see people gathered around you. You may choose to listen into a few things. You may choose to go to your own funeral. You may choose to visit some people. You may choose to attempt to communicate with them. Sometimes they will perceive it, sometimes they will not. You may experience what is called the tunnel of Light, which is actually just the way of expressing in your reality the idea of a link and a bridge between one dimension and another. And as you open up into the other dimension of spiritual reality, non-physical reality, most [of] you may experience being greeted by the non-physical Spirit counterparts of people that you have known in Life, or the idea of what you call people from other lives. You may thus then experience the sensation of unconditional support and love, expansiveness. It will be like waking up from a dream in the way that you wake up from a dream now and go, "Oh, well, no matter how real that dream seemed, this is actually who I am and that was just a dream." So death will be similar to that as well. "This is who I really am and physical life was just a dream."

You will have what is generally called a Life review. You will experience every single choice you made, every consequence of every choice you made, and you will actually feel it and everything that anyone else felt as a consequence of the choices you made as if it's all happening to you, because it is all happening to you. This will happen really in the blink of an eye, even though it may seem to be somewhat stretched out because it's an entire lifespan in the blink of a moment. But you can focus on any part of it that you wish, and you can make it seem to last however long you wish it to last. And the ideas that you will use this as a learning experience to balance yourself in recognizing the choices that you made and whether or not you really would have preferred to make a different choice or not. And you will add that perspective to your overall knowledge as a soul.

You will thus usually be greeted by some guide or representation of the idea of All That Is, and you will experience this great envelopment of love. And you will be given more choices: Do you wish to go back to that life in a parallel reality and continue as if you hadn't died? Do you wish to have the experience you call reincarnation? Do you wish to move on to other dimensions, other civilizations, other realities? What do you wish to explore now?

You can generally assume that most of these things will be experienced by the general majority of you, even though there can be many, many different kinds of things. Okay?

**Andre:** So with that, if they... or whatever the choice is, will they still be connected to the ones here left?

**Bashar:** It depends. You're always connected to everything, but depending on the choice you make, you may not experience necessarily the same kind of connection. It depends.

**Andre:** What does that mean?

**Bashar:** Well, in other words, if the choice you're making means that you can't experience that choice without having an experience of not remembering anyone else, then you will not remember anyone else. Even though you're always connected. If the other choice you're making doesn't matter whether you maintain a conscious awareness of a connection to other people, you'll maintain the conscious connection. It depends on what it is you're attempting to experience as to what you will be capable of doing, in a sense.

**Andre:** So if someone leaves this physical Life currently and I'm still in the physical world now, and they have the choice to possibly not be connected...

**Bashar:** Well, no. There's always connected. But the idea is that they may be choosing something that makes their experience not need to necessarily consciously connect with you. But they're always connected. And more often than not, when someone awakens into spirit and experiences the idea of their true unconditional self, they will more or less always be around for you in some way, shape, or form. Now, they do have lives. They are still busy. They're not just hovering around, "What does she want now?"

**Andre:** Can I call upon?

**Bashar:** Of course. You always can. And generally speaking, often when you go about your day and suddenly, for no apparent reason, they may cross your mind. That may actually be them communicating with you. They may be connecting with you in that way. But they will always hear you. Yeah, they will always hear you because it's easier for them to hear you than it is for you to hear them in the way you have structured your belief system. Doesn't mean that it can't be as easy for you to hear them, but just because of your belief system, you usually prevent yourself from experiencing them in the way that they can experience you. Now that the blinders are off. Yeah. Because time, again, for them is not what it is for you. And generally also, they are seeing more clearly the scope of what it is as a higher mind, as a soul, you chose for yourself. So sometimes when it may seem like they're not connecting to you, they may, in a sense, have a little bit of a hands-off policy because your own higher mind is saying, "Hands off. Don't intervene right now. I'm going through a process." Do you understand?

**Andre:** Yeah, I do.

**Bashar:** So they actually know, in some senses, better than your physical mind when to connect and when to sort of Leave You by your own devices. But they're always there. And many times, even what you may think is your own thought or some synchronous thing that just occurs on your planet may actually have been the result of guidance from them, even though you may not have actually heard it at the time. They may have just needed to whisper one little thing in your mind to get you to think, "Oh, you know, to... I'll just take this path. I don't know why, I just feel like it." And then suddenly you run into someone you haven't seen in 10 years that gives you exactly what you need at that moment. "Go, what an amazing synchronicity!" But that may have come from guidance from the spirit world. But it will be unobtrusive because their first job is to make sure you are your own best guide and to remain in the background. They can't live your life for you. Make sense?

**Andre:** Yes, absolutely. Is this helping illuminate this idea a little bit?

**Bashar:** Actually, yeah. Anything else?

**Andre:** Can I ask one more? I don't know, you just asked the question there. Okay, I'm going. Sorry.

**Bashar:** So you don't have to ask if you can ask.

**Andre:** Um, so speaking of dreams, if there is that connection that feels different than just a dream, just something thought...

**Bashar:** It usually is representative of an actual communication, of a real connection, of a real conversation. And most of you can tell the difference. It does have a sense of Lucidity, a sense of solidity to it. It also has a sense of consistency to it. Whereas most of what you typically call a dream, in a sense from your perspective, is sort of nonsensical, right? You can be here, you can be there, things can happen that you go, "Yeah, that makes sense that he has 12 eyes. Sure, I accept it. Nothing strange there." You understand?

**Andre:** I do.

**Bashar:** And in fact, to go back to another question, one of the ways you can actually trick yourself into becoming Lucid in the dream is to actually train yourself to start recognizing when things are not the way they are in physical reality, instead of just accepting that that's normal.

**Andre:** One last question. I'm sorry. A see?

**Bashar:** Yes, I know.

**Andre:** Do we choose to leave this physical world always?

**Bashar:** Now, it can be done with Precision or it can be done with a general window. But generally, you choose to explore certain themes, and when the exploration of those themes is up—well, unless you change your mind and say, "Well, there are some other things I really would like to explore"—you usually just leave in some way, shape, or form. Wow. Because you are done with that exploration. You're done with that perspective. It's really analogous to the idea of saying, "You know what? I'm going to go coral reef diving for a while here. I am on the boat above the water and I'm going to put on the mask, I'm going to put on the wet suit, going to put on the fins, going to put on the tanks, and I'm going to dive into the water. And I'm wearing this mask, the ego structure, so that I can see clearly under the water to have the experience I really want to have. But after I go around through the coral reefs and I've looked at all the pretty fish, and I finally get to the point where you go, 'Well, you know what? That was the experience of the day. That's what I wanted to do. I have done it and now I'm done with this experience.' You go back up to the boat, you take off the mask, take off the wetsuit, take off the fins, take off the tanks. You're back in spirit." Understand?

**Andre:** I do. Simple. And then you can go diving again whenever you wish to have that experience. It's up to you. So is it possible that you could be resist... like, is there a part, a deeper soul that knows or has chosen to leave, but then the ego part of you is resisting that?

**Bashar:** Oh, that happens all the time on your planet. Many of you die Kicking and Screaming. Okay. Because again, you've trained the ego part to think of that as an actual annihilation of identity, and it's not. So as long as the ego thinks that when you die you actually cease to exist, it's going to go into survival mode and it's going to panic and it's going to kick and scream and resist all the way. But the idea is that if it starts to learn—if you start to train the ego to understand that you are a part of me, my identity will always be a part of me, but in the physical ego I don't need the diving mask right now. I use the diving mask when I go diving. I don't need the diving mask on the boat. But I'll always have you at my side. I will never abandon you and you will always be there with me. You will always be all right. So in that, then the ego can relax and can understand that you're not discarding it. It's not going to cease to exist. It has a place within your total Consciousness. And it can relax. And then you won't panic and you won't resist the idea of going into Spirit.

**Andre:** Amazing. Which is just another phase of life, in a sense.

**Bashar:** Truly, there is no afterlife. There's just life in different forms. That's all. There is no afterlife. You will always be alive forever. Wow. You're an eternal being. You may change your form, you may change your dimension, you may change your experience, but there is no afterlife, not really.

**Andre:** Would you say it's possible if you're one still sitting in your own physical body, could you experience to... to see with physical eyes the physical particles or um, of that person that's left or that Soul that's...

**Bashar:** Okay. You can train your senses to expand a bit to be able to perceive things that are now at this point invisible to you. And simultaneously, what often happens is that spirit, in a sense, will lower its vibrational frequency to make itself a little bit easier to see in your sensory range. Yeah. But yes, you can train yourself to see more clearly the idea of the higher frequencies. And many people do, and they see spirits around them all the time.

**Andre:** We do. We interact with Spirits all the time. It's not like they are really gone to us. Us, our world is populated by them. Really. As we have said, physiologically we only have about 250 million individuals on our planet physically, but we really actually come and go with billions of individuals non-physically. Okay. So we interact with them all the time.

**Andre:** And so as I walk away from this microphone, you're saying that if there's anyone departed from me in this physical life, they're with me now?

**Bashar:** Of course they are. Especially because you're talking about them. So their non-physical ears are burning.

**Andre:** That's all I needed to know.

**Bashar:** One Moment. Y, is there something special for you about Patunas or purple?

**Y (Questioner):** Purple is my favorite color.

**Bashar:** Yeah. All right. Then that's a sign that there is somebody with you right now because they gave us that information to give to you.

**Y:** Yeah. All right. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

*(Applause)*

***

### **Conversation 6: Questioner – On Languages, Parallel Realities, and Radiation**

**Questioner:** Hi Bashar and you good day? I am so excited and grateful to be talking with you right now.

**Bashar:** We are in gratitude as well. Okay. I have three questions. The first one is about the languages that I'm speaking in my sleep. Yes, some of them are from Earth and some are not. Oh, right. I was wondering if you could tell me more about...

**Bashar:** Well, again, as you expand your senses and make connections more consciously to other Realms and other civilizations, you have connections to. You may start to translate some of that information out in that way. It doesn't always have to remain silent. If you have a natural penchant to work with vibrations and words and sounds, you may, in a sense, Channel some of the languages of other civilizations in some way, shape, or form into your reality. It may be your way of incorporating and integrating those vibrational ideas a little bit more concretely in your physical world for you.

**Questioner:** Cool. Are uh, any of the languages I'm speaking from Sirius?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** Very cool. Thank you. Okay, so the next question is a clarification. Yes, I would really appreciate if you could help me understand more about the way we shift through parallel realities. You're doing very well. And the way we create memory from the present.

**Bashar:** So yes. Well, again, the idea is that you don't experience time at all if you're not shifting through these parallel realities. Again, the analogy is very similar to the idea of your film strip with its multiple frames. In any one single frame, there's no movement, no time, no experience. As you run the film strip past the projector light, you'll create the illusion of movement, of space, of change on the screen as a movie. It's a similar idea. Every single parallel reality is literally a frozen frame. No time, no experience. You shift your Consciousness through the various parallel reality frames like a projector light and create the experience of continuity, the illusion of time, space, change, movement. But you're doing that automatically, billions of times a second. Billions of parallel realities a second. The increment, if you wish, the tick of the clock, is what you have in your Sciences called the Planck time and Planck length. That's why the frames are billions of times per second. So smooth, so rapid, you don't even know you're doing it. But you're doing it all the time. It's never the same reality, never the same parallel experience from moment to moment to moment to moment. That's automatic. Can't help it. Can't stop it unless you go to another dimension where it's unnecessary. Does that make sense?

**Questioner:** Yeah. AB unnecessary. Does that make sense? Yeah. AB.

**Bashar:** Now that you thus then create that linear idea of time, then you have to order the information you're getting from other realities, other simultaneously coexisting experiences. You have to put it in some kind of logical order that your physical mind can process. So you've created the idea of beginning, middle, end, past, present, future. And whatever type of information you're cross-connecting to, you will place in whatever order it serves you best. So if the idea of downloading information from another experience serves you to explore your theme by placing it seemingly in the past, so that by placing it in the past you can say, "Oh, well, because it's in the past, I have already learned from it," and thus you thus then know what you need to know because you're assuming that if it's in the past, well, you must have learned something by now from it. Oh, yeah. You understand? But that memory is created in the present, and you're just placing it where you think it will actually make the most sense for your journey experience.

This is why we have talked about the idea of the 13th Step: that every change is a total change. And when you actually make any change, you are literally a different person. And if you are literally a different person, then that means you actually have a different history than the person that was here a moment ago. Literally a different history. And that's why, just to use the example of addiction, if someone actually suddenly realizes that they really actually are a different person, they will no longer feel the urge for the addiction. Not because they have lost the urge, but because they never had it. It's not in their history. If they have become a different enough person with a definition that has nothing to do with the definition of the person that was there a moment ago, so it's not like you lose the urge; it's that you never had the urge. And that's why it's not there now.

**Questioner:** Wow. Yeah. Total change. Every change is a total change.

**Bashar:** When you truly begin to wrap your understanding into that, you will understand how free you are to Define who you are at every single given moment.

**Questioner:** So how does it work with a friend that you haven't seen in five years and you meet up with them and you both share the same memories from way back?

**Bashar:** Well, again, as we say, there are cross connections energetically, and you have agreed that for some reason it serves you to have similar memories to play the roles you need to play. It's All by agreement. It's all an orchestration. It's all a play. You all have your scripts, you all have your parts. You can improvise, but nevertheless, it's a play. Cool?

**Questioner:** Thank you. Does this help you?

**Bashar:** Yeah. I have one more question.

**Questioner:** Yes. Um, I'd really appreciate some guidance from you on um, what to do or what to think about all the radiation that's pouring out of Japan. I don't want to reinforce a negative world, and yet you brought up the question. I did. I can't... I can't seem to get away from the information. It's like... so what's the fear-based belief that makes you anchor to that idea?

**Questioner:** Exactly. It's probably that I'll get sick.

**Bashar:** And why do you believe that that's necessary for you?

**Questioner:** I don't want to believe that.

**Bashar:** Well, why are you afraid that that's necessary for you?

**Questioner:** I don't know. Sure you do.

**Bashar:** That that's necessary for me? Well, the idea obviously must be based on some belief system that you're sharing with someone, maybe the mass consensus, that such things must be detrimental. Now, it's true that the general Mass consensus may buy into that, and therefore for the majority of people that may be true. But it doesn't mean that you have to circumvent radioactivity in order to Simply know that your synchronicity will put you where you need to and give you what you need in life to ensure that you will be all right. In other words, if you have created the exploration of a theme in your life that doesn't necessitate the idea of having the experience you're talking about, then no matter, no matter whether that exists in the overall general population or not, you simply won't come into contact with that particular effect. And if you do, then there's a reason for it. Even if the reason is only to realize that you've attracted yourself to it with a belief system that you don't prefer, to give you the opportunity to change it. So anything you use in a positive way will have a positive effect in your life, even if it seemingly starts out to be a negative experience. You need to learn to redefine things in the way that you prefer to and trust that your life will unfold in the way that it needs to.

**Questioner:** Got it. Yeah. So give it a positive definition. Yes. Believe that it can't hurt me.

**Bashar:** Yeah. It's not about believing that it can't hurt you. Okay? Because again, you're using, in a sense, a negative to create a positive. Okay? It simply has nothing to do with you. You can observe, you can recognize other people may be utilizing negative belief systems. What's that got to do with you? Nothing. Now, the degree to which you believe or know that that's true is the degree to which you will have a shared experience or not. And remember, knowing is synonymous with action, with behavior. Yes?

**Questioner:** Yeah. You understand that?

**Bashar:** Yeah. What you know to be true, you just do. You just behave as if you know it's true. You don't question it, you don't think about it, you don't wonder if you believe it. You just do it because you know it to be true. It's ingrained in you. Make sense?

**Questioner:** Yeah. Is this helping?

**Bashar:** Yeah, it is. Thank you so much, Bashar.

**Bashar:** You are so welcome.

*(Applause)*

***

### **Conversation 7: Writer/Musician – On Fine-Tuning Creativity**

**Questioner:** Hello Bashar and to you good day. Good day. Um, I am a writer, I'm a musician, and I have found a way, you know, I've been playing since I was a very small child. Oh, all right. And I found a way, particularly in the last few years, to just tap into being able to write every day and not have my inner critic stop me and just have it be a very playful Joy. Wonderful thing.

**Bashar:** How exciting. It's wonderful.

**Questioner:** And so now I've just generated tons and tons of material, and I'm wondering if you have advice for how to fine-tune some of the ideas and the themes and the images that are the most specialized things that I should explore. Because I found that just going through all these ideas based on what's exciting to me at any moment is... is hard.

**Bashar:** Well, look at the idea of the whole formula, please. Remember the entire formula. The entire formula contains how you fine-tune things. The entire formula. Are you paying attention? Mhm. Are you sure?

**Questioner:** I definitely paying attention.

**Bashar:** All right. You act on your highest excitement to the best of your ability. In other words, the things that excite you, if they come in different forms, don't always have the same degree of ability to be acted on. Correct?

**Questioner:** Correct.

**Bashar:** So all you need to do is pick the one that excites you the most that you actually have the greatest ability to do something about. That's your first filtering, fine-tuning Point. Yes. If you don't have an ability to do something with something, you have more ability to do this than you have ability to do that. That's your first filtering system. That's your first fine-tuning system: the degree of ability you have to do something with it, to take action on it.

**Questioner:** Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:** So when you take action on that thing, whatever it may be, take it as far as you can until you can take it no further. When you suddenly get to a point where you simply can't imagine how to take it any further, then you act on the next most exciting expression that you actually have the ability to take some action on. And you take that as far as you can until you can take it no further. And of course, all through this, you have absolutely no assumption or insistence or expectation as to what the specific outcome actually should be. Mhm. Yes. Yes. It's a self-organizing principle. That's what excitement is. It's not only the driving engine and the complete toolkit; it's a self-organizing principle. So all you have to do is act on what you can act on until it shows you that you actually need to stop acting on that and act on something else. And yet all of that will be interconnected because all excitement is connected to all other excitement. Do you follow me?

**Questioner:** Mhm.

**Bashar:** And of course, you always have available to your own imagination and the creation of your own permission slips and the experience of your own synchronicity in life. And if you know that synchronicity will also show you what you need to do in what order by presenting opportunities for only certain things at a certain moment rather than other things, you can use your synchronicity also as a fine-tuning filtering system as well.

**Questioner:** Yes. Yes. Are we leaving something else? Are there ways? I guess I'm just wondering, you know, also images from dreams and symbols from dreams have always been a big part of my... my process. And I'm wondering if there's a way to pick of two or 300 images that have come kind of... which are the most important for me to carry with and turn into... but which ones are you most attracted to? Which ones are you most excited about? That's what I'm wondering if there's a system of how to fine-tune that. Is it putting them in front of me and...

**Bashar:** All right. Yes. Use your imagination. If you need to, list them all or create representational symbols for them all. Then, if that's what works for you, lay them all out. Have them all before you. Go, "Which one am I attracted to? What catches my eye first?" Go with that one first. "What catches my eye next?" Go with that one next. This is simply something you're capable of creating in your own imagination. Yes. Mh. Create your own process. Create your own permission slips. That's what your imagination is for. It's communicating with your higher mind so that the higher mind goes, "This is what will work best for you. Do it this way. This is what will work best for you. This is what's most in alignment with your vibration." That's why you're attracted to do it this way. That's why you thought of that particular method.

I've noticed sometimes like, just there's so much... can be so much static in this world. Between many times, the static is just because you're not laying it out clearly for yourself. So find the method in your imagination that allows you to experience the best and highest amount of clarity in the process. Many times people find that when they keep things in their mind, it's all a jumble and there's that static and there's all that chatter. But the moment they actually write something down, it becomes very clarifying. So if it requires a physicalization in some form, do it. Because that just goes hand-in-hand with what we always say about the idea of how important it is not just to be in a state of excitement, but act physically from that state of excitement. Because if you don't actually couple the excitement with a physical expression, you're not grounding the excitement into physical reality. It's like an electric circuit; it has to be grounded into your physical reality in order for the energy to flow clearly. And the reason it's not clear is you're not grounding it enough in some actual physical representation of the process. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yeah. That's it. You're just going, "Oh, process. Oh, my goodness, such a big jumble." But you're not doing anything to actually get it out in front of you in physical terms. Terms that's what will bring Clarity. That's why we talk about people mocking realities up as realistically as they possibly can. If they have a particular dream, a particular Vision, literally mock it up as physically as you can. Because then you're training your body Consciousness to actually experience the vibration of the physical reality. So get it out of you into the physical world in whatever way your imagination so desires, but get it out of you into the physical world. There has to be a physical component to the excitement or there's no grounding.

**Questioner:** Great. Make sense?

**Bashar:** Yes. Does that help you?

**Questioner:** That helps me. Well, thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

*(Applause)*

***

### **Conversation 8: Questioner – On Negative Belief Systems**

**Questioner:** Hello Bashar and of you good day. How are you?

**Bashar:** Perfect. Thank you. Good. Um, all right. I have a question as far as with negative belief systems. Yes, I feel like I've identified a lot of them in my life and I've transformed them. Yes. Into positive Rel systems.

**Bashar:** All right. Congratulations.

**Questioner:** Thank you. And but I feel like the ones that are coming up now are just... they're so powerful.

**Bashar:** Of course they are. Because the more you transform, the more powerful you get. And the more you can handle. Or don't you believe that?

**Questioner:** I do. But I just... I find it... yeah. Comment right there. I do.

**Bashar:** But you do or you don't. So if you say "I do," but that's the same thing as saying "I don't." I do believe I am powerful enough to handle them. Then act like you are and you will see that you are. Know that you are and you will experience that you are. If you don't feel that you are, there is still some belief you haven't found that's preventing you from knowing you can. Feel that you are. Find out what that belief is and transform that one. And when you transform that one, you will feel that you can handle anything else that comes. So find the belief that saying, "I can only handle so much," or "I believe I'm actually being given more than I can handle," which is not really possible. Mh. Not really. And thus allow yourself to transform that belief so that you can suddenly realize: if I were not this powerful, that wouldn't have come with that appearance of power. That has to be a reflection of the level of power I have, or I wouldn't perceive that much power in it. Mh. Remember, you can not perceive what you're not the vibration of. This is just physics. You can't perceive what you're not on the same level of. So if you're perceiving great power in that belief system, you have to be capable of dealing with it. You have to be on the level of it energetically, or it couldn't even be perceived by you. The perception is the proof of the level you're on. Does that make sense?

**Questioner:** It does. But I just... I... I have that... yeah. I know. It's just that difficulty and actually transforming it into what I want...

**Bashar:** That there is no difficulty inherent. Mh. In any circumstance, there is no difficulty inherent in transformation. Only your definition is giving you the experience that it's difficult. Find out the definition that is making the transformation be defined as difficult, and you will find out that transformation itself is not difficult. You will always have challenges. Yes. You will always have a form of creative pressure in any challenge that you face because you need creative pressure to grow. But creative pressure and challenges don't have to equate to struggle, Strife, pain, and difficulty in that context. Don't Define them that way and you won't experience them that way. It's not a given that certain things are naturally inherently difficult. Only your definitions make them appear so. So just finding those definitions in... yes. It's absolutely crucial that you allow those definitions to come into your conscious recognition. Because if you don't consciously recognize the definition, you have nothing to work with. It remains unconscious and you don't know why what's happening is happening. You have to identify the belief system in order to know that it's something that doesn't belong to you. It's something you picked up along the way. Any definition that's out of alignment with your preferred self doesn't belong to you. Came from your parents, came from your friends, came from your Society, came from your schooling. It doesn't belong to you if it's out of alignment with your preferred true natural core frequency. So stop carrying around baggage that doesn't belong to you. On your planet, you call that stealing. Don't be a belief Thief. Let go of beliefs that have nothing to do with you, that belong to your parents, that belong to your friends, that belong to your school, that belong to your society, and have nothing to do with you. That's why they don't feel right. They're not yours. Anything that actually belongs to you is light as a feather. That's how you know it's yours. Anything that weighs you down doesn't belong to you. Let it go. Does that help?

**Questioner:** It does. Thank you very much.

**Bashar:** Why, you're welcome.

*(Applause)*

***

### **Conversation 9: Sweet James – On Hybrid Experiences and Lucid Dreams**

**Sweet James:** Good day, Bashar. Any you good day? Huu. And um, I love you all. Um, so I wanted to talk about my hybrid experiences and my lucid dream states.

**Bashar:** Oh, right. Go right ahead.

**Sweet James:** Yeah. Um, that was uh, basically three years, almost three years after I found out I had hybrid kids. Um, I had this lucid dream uh, where I was climbing this tree and um, I thought of Pearl, my hybrid daughter, and um, I just called out her name. And um, I for the first time in that state didn't feel well. I felt a little bit of fear of like being startled by her. And then um, and then I was just really courageous and I was able to meet her.

**Bashar:** All right. Bravo. Or Bravo.

**Sweet James:** And it was really beautiful. And then um, I had another experience with her like shortly after that. Um, I was in the template reality and I was... it felt like that I felt like a higher um, knowingness of myself, like the the part of myself that always is interacting.

**Bashar:** Yes. The transparent you. Yeah.

**Sweet James:** It was just... it was really lovely.

**Bashar:** Yes, it is. And we explored all kinds of like limiting belief systems that I have fun.

**Sweet James:** Yeah, is awesome. And um, yeah, I love you, Pearl, and I love all my hybrid children. The String of Pearls.

**Bashar:** Yes. Like Indra net. Yes. Yes. The holographic representation of every single Pearl reflecting all the information of every other Pearl in the net. It's beautiful.

**Sweet James:** And it is. Is that her... like Essence? Is that what... like she, her holographic reflectivity?

**Bashar:** Yes. Yeah. That's what I... that's why you were capable of exploring the idea of your negative belief systems in that way. Because you were enveloped in the vibration of holographic reflectivity and were able to see the information from different points of view.

**Sweet James:** Yeah. Awesome. And I'm still exploring those and yeah, they're really like clear in my mind. And I thank you. I love that exploration. Thank you. Um, so the other night, like about a week ago, I had a really strange experience.

**Bashar:** Oh, how exciting.

**Sweet James:** Um, it... I... I believe of strange.

**Bashar:** Yeah.

**Sweet James:** So I believe it to be with a being named Alal. Is that correct?

**Bashar:** It's a vibrational representation that your physical mind is associating with that particular frequency. Doesn't mean that the being calls itself that in its own realm. Okay?

**Sweet James:** Is there a name that I could...

**Bashar:** No. No. Okay. Perfect. There's nothing that you can pronounce. That's why your physical mind gave you a representation.

**Sweet James:** Great. Yeah. It was like channeled through another woman. She gave me that name. All right. Um, so there was like... I felt like I didn't feel like I was fully asleep. I didn't feel like I was dreaming. I felt like I was waking up and then going into this altered state. And um, it was really intense. Like all this energy around my... my head. And I knew that all this information was coming in. As you said earlier, yes. Um, and I saw like uh, like my mind as like a computer and like files being downloaded and so to speak.

**Bashar:** Not exactly, but so... so to speak. Okay.

**Sweet James:** Well, I... I do remember asking if my friend Leah, who was in the... who was in the room, if she was... had been abducted. And I heard this really loud like "yes." And um, it was really intense. And is that true? Like, was that happening or was that... was it happening? I mean, yeah. Like, did she get abducted? Was that like at the same time that that was going down?

**Bashar:** Not at the time you called the present time. But she has had that experience that you are referring to as abduction.

**Sweet James:** Cool. Okay. So yeah, we have a... we have that hybrid children connection.

**Bashar:** So um, great. And that's why I said String of Pearls. Nice. Great. Thank you. Anything else?

**Sweet James:** Um, yeah. What was the significance of the sixth floor in the dream that I had when I met Mopee? You are talking about six density reality.

**Sweet James:** Where the encounter occurred. Yeah. It was like I was in the elevator and then I had to like hit this button a certain way and it like...

**Bashar:** Yes. Yeah. You have to hit the button a certain way to be able to rise to that frequency. Okay?

**Sweet James:** Yes. Yes. Does that help you?

**Bashar:** Yeah. Then Happy explorations to you.

**Sweet James:** All right. Thank you. You're welcome. Sweet James, you too.

***

### **Conversation 10: Kirby/Audience – On Comets, ETs, and Holot Hope**

**Audience Member:** We are having the sweetest dream right now. But sure, good day to you. Hey, it's good to talk to you again. I... I spoke with you once before.

**Bashar:** And you as well.

**Audience Member:** Um, I have a question. Several questions. Um, I spoke to you once before about dreams, but first I'm going to start with a question about... we have a comet in our solar system.

**Bashar:** Yes, you do.

**Audience Member:** We call... can you tell me more about ISON? And also there there's some... it's what you typically have have come to call the Christmas Comet.

**Bashar:** It is, in that sense, simply a reflection of a new cycle coming in. And the degree of its reflectivity, in that sense, will also represent to some degree the degree of reflectivity coming up in the next year. Since the next year, 2014, is the year of reinvention.

**Audience Member:** Is the comet more than a comet?

**Bashar:** No. Interesting. It is, in that sense, a comet in your physical reality, but it is more than a comet in the sense that it is a symbol of certain things going on in the collective consciousness of your reality. If you're asking me if it's a spaceship, no.

**Audience Member:** Thank you. Than guess... are there crafts behind the moon right now that just came in recently?

**Bashar:** Spacecraft? Yes. On what you call the far side of your Moon? Yes. Yes. Always.

**Audience Member:** Can you tell me why they're there?

**Bashar:** They're observing. There are extraterrestrial bases on the moon that they come and go from in their Explorations in your system. It's a very convenient place for many extraterrestrials to observe your world from since that side of your moon never faces your planet.

**Audience Member:** It's pretty good. All right. I heard there were some that just recently came in. Uh, okay.

**Bashar:** Well, there is always beings and crafts coming and going into those bases. That's cool. Just like there are always planes taking off and landing at your airports. So of course you could say, "Well, I heard some just came in." Well, yes, of course. So and some just left. Yes, of course. Just like an airport. Of course. Of course. It's not a big mystery.

**Audience Member:** That's cool. Um, dream question. Yes. Um, loose dreams. I had loose a dream where um, I have these two... I spoke to you about it before. And these four... these four beans are like really loving. Yes. And um, uh, one time when I was in a dream, I... to take control of my dream... um, is like a technique, you know. Once you realize you're dreaming, look... look at your hand.

**Bashar:** Well, that's one technique. Yes. And uh, or you can see your hand and use your hand as a symbol when you see it that you're dreaming to wake you up into Lucidity. It can work in a different way.

**Audience Member:** Yes. When I looked at my hand this particular time, there was a... a... a symbol of colored beads in and it was very interesting. Can you tell me what that represents? What... what... what did that mean?

**Bashar:** It actually can mean mean a few different things. But as we read your general patterns of energy, it was a symbolic representation of what you typically refer to as the different colors that run up your spine, the chakra points. But in the sense that they formed... did they form a circle?

**Audience Member:** No. It was a shape that I'm still trying to recall. What was the shape? Kind of like a six with a circle attached to it at the top. Maybe. Uh, all right. Number. So in that... maybe. Uh, all right. Number. So in that sense, then it was in the process of curling up.

**Bashar:** So the idea is to look at the idea of your chakra system that you typically look at linearly, like a spine with the different colors, the different chakra points, and to turn that into a circle so that it is self-feeding, self-perpetuating, self-amplifying, revving yourself up, as you say in your ancient language, pulling yourself up by your own bootstraps. Nice. So it's a way of having a symbol, an image of the idea of those energy centers, and by linking them in what you would typically call an Ouroboros. Yes. A serpent eating its own tail. The ancient symbol for that idea. Thus, you are allowing the energy, the Kundalini energy, to go around and around in cycles and amplify itself up. So you were being given, in a sense, a symbol that represents the ability to feel that linkage and amp your energy up in that way.

**Audience Member:** Nice. Yes. Great. All right. Fantastic. Um, there was an incident where I was laying in bed and I felt like I was coming out of of my body through my chest. Yes. I felt fear. I came back. I let go of the fear and I left. All right. And I was brought... I believe brought to this place. Well, guided.

**Bashar:** Yes. Okay.

**Audience Member:** It was beautiful. Um, like the inside of a man. It was music and artwork.

**Bashar:** Yes. Many places in the spirit realm are like that. Again, remember, there are different vibrational levels in the spirit realm, and many people choose to actually still experience things that are somewhat similar to what you experienced in the Earth plain, but shall we just say, in a much, much more magnificent and spectral and Powerful way. So you can actually actually have whole communities, whole areas that look like mountains and lakes and forests and Villages and towns in the spirit reality because those Spirits are reinforcing that reality with their own thoughts, but in ways that are different than what you experienced in physical reality. There can be things that look very similar to Earth, there can be things that look very different, and there can be things that are very in-between, supported by the community of the spirit that are collectively creating those particular reality experiences in spirit. It's fantastic. This is what is really meant by the idea of there are many mansions. You understand?

**Audience Member:** Yes, I do. It all happens here and now, but it happens in different frequencies. Um, who are these four? Can you tell me more about the four beings?

**Bashar:** They are friends. They are guides. You will remember more about about them in time. Nice. Actually, more precisely, you will remember more about them in timelessness.

**Audience Member:** Very good. Okay. Um, one of them told me uh, that I was a Chosen One. What does that mean?

**Bashar:** It means you have chosen yourself to do certain things and to wake up in certain ways. It means that you are taking full responsibility for the experiences you are choosing. Nice. And that you recognize that this is the time to wake up. This is the age of transformation, and you're willing to be a living example of that so that others can also share in that vibration and make choices that are relevant for them.

**Audience Member:** That's that's great. I love hearing it from you because...

**Bashar:** So we thank you for your service. That's what it means to be a Chosen One. It means you have chosen to serve in that way. All of you really have. All of you have chosen yourselves to do that. And as you go through the process and as you allow us to reflect certain things back to you from your own higher mind, together we are refining the choices that you have made and the process that you are experiencing. That's great. So we thank you. All of you for your service and your willingness to explore and discover and be more and more and more of who you truly are. Because again, as we say, that creates new realities in which we can play on greater and greater and greater levels. So we thank you.

**Audience Member:** How gratitude is mine. Butar. Thanks. I uh, uh, quickly. Um, we go out in the fields. Uh, I'm a member of this ET Skywatch team. And yes, we get video footage. Are you peering at us?

**Bashar:** Yes. And you are signaling us back and flashing. It's wonderful. We get these sometimes. Maybe not.

**Audience Member:** You are... what I'm asking now is, we're going to go out next weekend. Would you like to come out with some of your craft and again us?

**Bashar:** That'd be great. All the invitations have already been given. All the appointments have already been made. You don't need to ask us again. If there is a purpose for us to be there, we will be there. If there isn't, we won't.

**Audience Member:** Thank you. I'd like to give you a big hug.

**Bashar:** Thank you very much. Thank you. Received and given back.

*(Applause)*

***

### **Closing Meditation and Final Remarks**

**Audience Member:** What is your time frame? You know what we mean by that question. What is your time frame?

**Bashar:** Thank you. Not how much time do we have left. What is your time frame? Frame. Yes. Thank you. There are many things for you still to do in the idea of Our holot Hope meditation and the idea of your presentation. Let us proceed in that direction now. All right. We will give you a brief break in order to set up your holot hope and then we will resume our connection and transmission to guide you through the lucid dream of a holot experience.

*(Applause)*

**Host:** So if we could ask... and what's your... what's your website?

**Kirby:** Ancient Technologies light Lain pro.com. Light Labyrinth project.com.

**Host:** So we so appreciate that Kirby brings us the holot Hope and this opportunity for Bashar to share with us this guided meditation that will be Amplified in our Consciousness through the interaction with the holot. So if everyone would please take their seats, we will begin. And again, thank you all so much for coming. It's quite a lot of people here. So bash, I can feel Bashar knocking at Daryl's door. Is that right? You saw that? He's like, yep. So if everyone would please take their seats, we'll go ahead and get started CU we don't want to block anyone's view when we're watching the holot. I'm doing the best I can, Bashar, to hurry along the humans. Okay. All right. I think we're ready. So again, thank you Darl and Bashar for helping us reach for the stars.

*(Music begins)*

**Bashar (Guided Meditation):** But it'll say, let us continue this transmission by allowing yourselves to become very relaxed, very comfortable. Take a deep breath in and let it out. Take a deep breath in again and let it out. Take another deep breath in and hold it. Hold it. Hold it. And blow it out. Continue to breathe naturally, softly, deeply, in a relaxed way. Allow yourselves to remain comfortable. Let go of the tensions, the thoughts of the day, and focus upon the center of the holot. And as you allow your lights to dim and allow your music to rise, continue to breathe and know that you are receiving the frequencies necessary for you to absorb into your being, being, so that you can begin to awaken into your dreams, into Lucidity, into the template level reality where all blueprints reside for your physical reality. So that you may experience reality so that you may experience Lucidity not only by waking up in your dreams, but lucidity in your life, in the physical dream that is being Dreamt by your soul right now. As you, for you are the dream of your soul. And as you wander through the Dreamscape of Life, allow yourself to know that you are here and now by your own choice, by your own actions, by by your own response-ability in order to increase and expand your Lucidity, your awareness, and awaken more and more every day into the dream of life so that you may know that you are the creator of your reality experience.

Gaze upon the center now of the holot. Allow in the vibrational frequencies of tone and color, light and sound, and know that you are allowing yourself to use the holot as a reminder, a reminder to wake up in the dream. Allow yourselves just now to drift. Let it in. Let the vibrational signal in so that while you are dreaming this night of your time or any other night, even a flash, even a flicker, even a hint of the Holo will remind you that you are dreaming, will awaken you in the dream into Lucidity, into the ability to create the dream as you desire it to be, to arrange it in the template reality into the blueprint that is representative of the manifestation you most prefer. While at the same time knowing and allowing the higher mind to bring you what will work best for you, to allow the physical mind to let go of the need for any particular outcome and to know that the higher mind will always manifest for you what serves you best, what serves the best of all concern in the greater dream that you share in the consensus reality you have co-created by agreement with your fellow beings in this dream of Earth, this dream of physical life, the dream of exploration, the dream of the themes that challenge you, the dream of discovering more and more of who you are, the dream of Awakening, the dream of expanding, the dream of being all that you are.

Allow. Allow. Allow. Relax. Relax. Relax your body. Relax. Relax your arms. Relax your chest. Relax your neck. Relax your legs. Relax your feet. Relax your jaw. Relax your head. Relax your breathing. Relax. Let yourself simply drift away on the Eddies and currents of dream time. Relax. Be in silence. Be in silence. Be in silence. Just drift and dream as you gaze upon the holot, as you gaze into the reflection of the higher mind, into the eye of your greater being that is gazing back at you. You are looking in a mirror of yourself, of your greater self. Relax. Blend and balance in your relationship in the dream of dreaming yourself as your higher mind and soul dreams you into being, and you conversely dream the soul and become the soul, become the higher mind. Mind. Relax. Relax. Dream and drift. Drift and dream. And awaken into your own dream. You are looking at the pattern of the blueprints of the template reality in the holot, and you will begin to understand the patterns, understand the lines of light and energy. Relax. Relax. Relax. Energy. Relax. Relax. Relax. Just drift. Now quietly, quietly, softly, in a deep silence, in the Deep void of the dream of all that is, floating as a single spark of awareness. Dream and dream and drift. Dream and drift. Dream and drift. And awaken into a new understanding, a new Clarity, a new certainty, a new knowingness of your being. Crystal Clarity of the template reality. Just allow yourself now to absorb the light and sound, knowing that whatever trigger, whatever reminder, whatever symbol will work best for you to awaken you into your lucid dream will come to you through synchronicity as your life unfolds. Allow your imagination to be your guide. Allow your guides to be your imagination.

Breathe deeply. Take a deep breath in and let it out. Take a deep breath in and let it out. Take a deep breath in and hold it. And as you hold it, allow crystallization to occur. And blow the essence of a new reality, a new atmosphere, a new being, a new dawn. For a new dawn shall rise within you as you awaken into Lucidity on all levels of your being. And as you awaken in Lucidity in the dream of the dream and the dream of Life, everyone that needs to be there will be there. The right place, the right time, perfect timing. And we are there with you, as are your guides eternally, as all that is is eternally you. You are awake. You are Lucidity itself. Allow yourself to remember that you are already awake instead of pretending to be asleep. For that dream is ending. The dream of forgetfulness is ending, and the dream of Awakening has begun. So awaken to a new day and a new dawn within yourself. One more breath in and let it out. And free yourselves and release yourselves to be who you truly are. And fear not. Fear not. Fear not. For the Shadows dissolve and become transparent in the light of Lucidity. You are the light itself. Awaken. Awaken. Awaken.

And as you allow now your music to soften, allow your lights to slowly and gently come up, not to full power, but still to allow you to float a little bit in a dreamlike state as your music softens. Just sit in in silence. Just silence. Just sit and dream and be in silence. Just breathe with us. Just breathe.

**Audience Member:** I had this dream.

**Bashar:** Yes. Which dream are you dreaming?

**Audience Member:** The one that you're in.

**Bashar:** All right. But we are in many dreams. Okay. Uh, this is the dream where you're here and there's a whole bunch of other people here too. A whole bunch. Yes. Like all these people have come together and decided to dream you and your people. Why? Look at all the lovely Reflections.

**Audience Member:** I had no idea we were so beautiful.

**Bashar:** Yes. I did. So it is... it's such a joyful experience to be connecting with you on...

**Audience Member:** You could have ended the sentence there.

**Bashar:** It is such a joyful experience to be.

**Audience Member:** All right. Let me try that. Don't try it. Do it. It is such a joyful experience to be.

**Bashar:** Yes. And to be here. Same thing. Because that's the second law: everything is here and now. So just to be is to be here and now. And just to be is to be the all and the one. And just to be is to be getting back what you put out. And just to be is to be changing all the time, except for the first four laws. And that's all there is to it. Huh? That is all there is. Everything else is your dream, your game, your definition, your perspective, your point of view of existence. It's up to you. Down to you. Off to the side to you. In and out to you. It is amazing to have... I have to wait till everybody starts stops running around. That's all right. By what you have said, you can all realize that if you should find yourself in life feeling like you are trapped in a maze, then just remember that it is amazing, and you will find your way through.

**Audience Member:** So Bashar yay snia. Today we are celebrating 30 beautiful amazing years of connecting with you through Daryl. 30 orbits. And we wanted to take this opportunity to thank you and let you know how much we love and appreciate you. And also to let you know what a tremendous gift it is to connect with you and your civilization. Because the amazing thing that's happened happened over these 30 years is that you've brought us this incredible Rich experience. You have done nothing less. The experience of you enriches us and more beings than you know. And that was part of it: just being able to connect with other beings, knowing of your existence, knowing of your civilizations existence, knowing about parallel Dimensions, knowing about the mechanics of how you create your reality, knowing that we're not alone in the universe. To know us is to know yourselves. To know us is to love us. To love us is to love yourselves. And that's probably the deepest thing that you teach us is that, unlike we may have previously... I guess somebody wants to get into this reality, but just the recognition that how beautiful the world is and how rich our world is, connecting with so many other beings in existence. Abundance abounds. There is never a lack. And that the future is so bright because we know what's in our future, and that is more connection with all the galactic beings that we're connected with and our parallel lives and so many others that we love.

**Bashar:** Yes. What you call your future is simply the invisible now. So we really want to thank you for enriching us and for just being you. Because you're pretty funny too.

**Audience Member:** Oh, well, right. Thank you. And now we have a special gift for you.

**Bashar:** While we're hoping... no need to hope. We have a gift for Bashar. Where we're going to show a tribute video.

*(Tribute Video Plays)*

**Bashar:** Don't say how are you all this evening of your time as you create time to exist at simple. What you decide to decide is true for you is what your reality will be. And it is that simple. Recognize, therefore, that many times all of the so-called suffering, all of the so-called struggling that you are doing in life is really nothing more than Shadow Boxing. You are in this way fainting with specters, with Reflections in the mirror of your existence. But the idea now that you are recognizing this in your new age awareness is that you have always been in control. As we have said many times, it is simply that you have forgotten that you are an aspect of the infinite, forgotten that you're always in control, forgotten that you are the individual creators of your own reality and the combined creators of your mass Consciousness. But now many individuals are beginning to awaken from the illusion of power and are beginning to be able to actually use the power of the illusion. Heard it? But it goes something like this: How many psychiatrists does it take to change a light bulb? And as some of you know, the answer is one, but the light bulb has to want to change. Top. Thank you.

The Paradox here is that because the physical mind has been taught to think it's in charge and has to figure out how everything is going to happen, it actually slows things down, even in the face of wanting things to speed up. It's doing exactly the opposite of what it actually really wants to have happen by taking on too much weight.

**Audience Member:** Well, I... I fully understand that in a way, but I... but I do... oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, I do think... oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, I don't. Oh. Listen to the sentence: "I fully understand it in a way." Okay. "In a way" means I don't fully understand it. Most of the things in your planet you have backwards. For example: Seeing is believing? No. Believing is seeing.

*(Applause)*

**Bashar:** All right. All right. What a Ruckus. You'd think it was the end of the world or something. I'm such a dreamer. What does that mean? I dream of meeting my true love. Uh, you dream of meeting your true love? Look in a mirror.

*(Applause)*

**Bashar:** Our unconditional love to you all. Good day. Dance another night in the star of forever. Share a little time. Dream a Little Dream Together. Dance another night and a star by forever. Share a little time. Dream a little tree. Together.

*(Music and Applause)*

**Bashar:** All right. We will first and foremost thank you all for the co-creation of that gift. We are touched into the deepest regions of our hearts. We will also say that we co-created what appeared to be the repetition of the beginning of that projection because there might have been a few things that some of you needed to hear again. And also as a reminder that life, physical reality, is also nothing more than just such a projection and can go on and off just as easily, can be changed just as easily. And we will also say that since you know Nania that the males of my civilization have no hair, you have created this as a document of how the channel is becoming more like us.

