---
heading: Part 1
title: "The Formula"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2015-06-20
icon: Bashar
weight: 351
showdate: true
---



The formula is to act on your highest passion, follow your highest excitement. We have delved into this from many different directions why this is crucial in life, because excitement is the vibration, your physical translation of the vibration of your true self, your true frequency. It is also your physical body's translation of communication from the higher mind. That's how it translates; when the higher mind is communicating with you, it translates as that sensation you call excitement, creativity, love, passion, joy.

But the ideas that we have perceive that sometimes there can be some misunderstandings, a little bit of lack of clarity about the specifics of following the formula—the three-part formula that we have often delivered. The three-part formula being that you act on your highest passion every moment that you can to the best of your ability, taking it as far as you can until you can take it no further, with absolutely zero insistence or assumption as to what the outcome ought to be, how you need to get where you're going, or any such specific idea being held on to.

This three-part formula, as we have said, will activate the kit of excitement, the complete kit that contains all the tools necessary. But in these three parts, we have discovered that sometimes there perhaps are different interpretations about what those different parts actually represent or refer to. So today we would like to dig a little deeper, delve a little deeper, and explain, based on what you have before you as your handout, some more specific ideas about what each segment actually refers to. This may not even necessarily be everything, every specific detail, but it will be a good start to help clarify the concept a little bit more.

So Naia, do you have your handout? Come up and read if you will be willing to assist.

**Naia:**
All right. All right. So under the first part of the formula, "To act on your passion," what is the first subheading everyone can follow along? You're talking about number one, right? Yes. Okay. Um, "Take action on the opportunity that contains the highest excitement."

**Bashar:**
Yes, that's the principle itself. What is the first subheading?

**Naia:**
"The highest excitement doesn't have to come in the form of a project or a career."

**Bashar:**
Yes, this is very important to understand because very often people will say, "Well, I don't know what my excitement is," and often they are thinking that it has to come in a specific recognizable form, some kind of a life-spanning career or long-term project, or come with trumpets blowing. No. When we talk about the idea of acting on your excitement, your highest excitement, we mean it can be as simple as: every moment of every day you have a number of options available to you that you are able to take some action on. Very basic, very simple. It can be reading a book, having lunch with a friend, talking to someone, taking a walk on the beach. Whatever option contains even just a little bit more excitement than any other option at that level, that's the one to act on first. Because the more excitement it contains than any other is telling you, through the synchronicity tool of excitement, that this is the order in which to act on these options. The one that contains the most excitement that has the greatest ability to be acted upon is the first one to act on. And it can be step-by-step, very simple. When you do that, it may lead to larger and larger and larger representations of excitement coming in different forms that will be more apparent, more obvious to you. But really, all we mean is you can take it a step at a time on every level, even the most basic level, and just at every moment act on the one that contains the most excitement more than any other excitement you have the greatest ability to do something about. That's really all it means: step-by-step. And it will lead to other representations and other experiences and other opportunities that will allow you to express your excitement in grander ways.

And the next subheading is: "As long as an option contains even a little more excitement than any other option, act on it first." That's, as we just said again, this is easy to do. We will assume—we may be wrong—but we will assume that you're all here today because this is what excited you to do. But when you leave this transmission, this interaction today, again you will have a number of options available to you. The only thing you need to do to activate this principle is just look at all the options and just choose to act on the one that contains more excitement than any other, even if it's only just a little bit more. That will be your clue and your indication that that comes first. Because again, one of the tools, as we will point out again later, is that excitement carries the organizing principle through synchronicity, and it will show you exactly in what order things need to be done, when they need to be done. And thus, anything that doesn't fit in that day when you're done doesn't need to be done that day. It truly organizes your life automatically.

The next subheading: "Excitement is your body's physical translation of a communication from your higher mind." People on your planet ask all the time, "How can I get a sign from my higher mind? How can I learn to communicate with my higher mind? How can I learn to recognize communication from it? I don't know, it must be difficult." Not at all. The things that excite you the most is actually your translation of that communication. So when you're willing to act on the thing that contains the highest excitement, that is actually you paying attention to the message from your higher mind that's guiding you from a higher position, a broader point of view, saying, "Do this now. Do this next. Do this next. This is the order that works best for you."

And when you act on that excitement to the best of your ability with zero insistence on the outcome, that is actually your response to the higher mind that's going, "I hear you loud and clear, and so I will act on that, knowing that you are guiding me." And when you then respond to the higher mind through that action—because you are physical, so action must be taken to demonstrate your commitment to receive that communication from the higher mind—when you do that, then the higher mind knows you're listening, knows you're paying attention, and it can start giving you more things to act on that contain more excitement. But if you're not paying attention, if you're not acting on the excitement that it presents to you, that it communicates to you, why should it give you more? It would be pointless. So the higher mind will always wait for you to demonstrate that you've heard the higher mind through the translation of excitement, and that you are willing to respond to the higher mind through your actions. And then you start that dialogue going, and you start the ball rolling, and you start the momentum, and it will accelerate and accelerate and expand from there.

And next: "Check your beliefs to make sure you aren't making anxiety appear to be excitement." This is crucial because many people will be afraid to face their fears because of negative belief systems within themselves about what it is they think they will encounter if they go exploring those things. And so many times they will gloss those anxieties, those fear-based beliefs over. They will ignore them, they will deny that they're there, they will not want to explore them, not want to admit that they're there. And so even though they may actually be feeling anxious, they may attempt to avoid looking at it or investigating it by making it appear or labeling it as "my excitement." You have to be very clear in discerning within yourself what is truly excitement-based and what may be anxiety or fear-based. This is absolutely crucial.

As is its reciprocal, which is: "Check your beliefs to make sure you aren't making excitement appear to be anxiety through fear-based definition." Yes, many people on your planet will not be willing to act on their excitement because of fear-based definitions of what they think will happen if they do: "Something bad will happen," or "This will happen," or "I'll lose this," or "People will laugh at me or judge me," or "I won't belong and everyone will walk away from me," and many other different kinds of fear-based beliefs. If you are actually acting on your excitement, but the idea then is to, again, in the reverse, make sure that you are not dampening down your excitement—the things that could actually be what will give you the best possible life—just because you have a definition that isn't actually a definition of excitement.

This is the irony, this is the paradox, as many people say, "Well, yes, I would love to act on my highest excitement, but if I do, I'm afraid that something bad will happen." That's not a definition of excitement; it's a different definition. You have to understand that in the purest form, excitement, by definition, cannot contain anything that would actually create a negative experience. So if you're making an association of a negative potential experience to the idea of excitement, then the definition you have created is actually not a real definition of excitement; it's a different kind of definition based on that fear-based belief. So be clear within yourself that you are not damping down your excitement by having an erroneous definition of it, by attaching negative definitions to it that don't belong there. 


### **Part 2: Act on That Excitement to the Best of Your Ability**

**Bashar:** number two is: "Act on that excitement to the best of your ability." All right. Now, as you can see in this diagram, there is a lot of clarification in this particular section because there are many different interpretations on your planet from different people about what acting on it to the best of your ability actually means. What is the first subheading?

**Naia:** Well, the first subheading is: "Use all your skills, talents, imagination, and abilities in taking action."

**Bashar:** If you actually are passionate about something, really truly, you will use everything you've got. 

You will stop at nothing to allow yourself to express, to act on, to mimic, to mock up, to model, to mirror. Every skill will be brought to the forefront, every ability that you have will be sought out and utilized and applied in your life to match the frequency of the passion you say that you are passionate about. So allow yourself to go forward full steam ahead when you know you are clearly acting on your excitement. Don't hold back. Otherwise, again, you're not really committing, you're not really demonstrating to the higher mind that it's a full commitment, that you actually believe that this frequency is representative of your passion or this opportunity or this doorway. Use every skill you have as best as you possibly can, and it will accelerate you greatly.

And next?

**Naia:**
Okay. "Act to the fullest degree you are able to act."

**Bashar:**
Again, this is a reinforcement of understanding that you must go all the way to the degree you are truly able to act on it. Not only bringing all the skills, but taking it as far as you can until you can take it no further. Exhaust every possible avenue. Take it all the way out. Again, if you are truly, truly passionate about something, you will stop at nothing. It will be your driving force. You will look for every nook and cranny, every doorway, every window, every path you possibly can to take it as far as you possibly can until your reality, through synchronicity, shows you there is simply nothing else that you can possibly do.

And next?

**Naia:**
"If more than one opportunity has equal ability to be acted upon, choose either, and it will show you whether or not to continue down that path."

**Bashar:**
Again, through synchronicity. The idea is that if it seems to be that there are equal opportunities with equal abilities and equal excitement, it really won't matter which one you choose first. You might as well just flip a coin. Because if it is not the path of least resistance for you, it will be self-contained within the toolkit of excitement, and something will happen synchronistically to demonstrate to you that that wasn't necessarily the choice that serves you best. That ability, that reflectivity, is built into—automatically built into—every single opportunity that you act on if it is being acted on to the best of your ability from your highest excitement.

And using the coin analogy, we are serious about that, because sometimes the idea is you don't really know which one might be representative of your highest excitement. Sometimes until you actually flip the coin, you may think they're equal. But sometimes when you flip a coin and say, "All right, if it's heads I'll take path A, if it's tails I'll take path B," and you flip it and it comes up tails, and you go, "Oh, path B... oh darn, I really wanted path A," you will reveal to yourself in that coin flip what really contains more excitement. But if after even the flipping of the coin they still seem equal, then again, it doesn't really matter which path you take. For if it is not the path of least resistance, if it is not the path that serves you best at that moment, it will contain what it needs to contain to reflect to you that you need to choose the other path. Because this is an automatic guidance system. It is an automatic, self-perpetuating, self-guiding, self-correcting system. It contains everything that you need, so you can utilize it that way as well.

And next?

**Naia:**
"Keep acting on it until you have no more ability to act."

**Bashar:**
Again, take it as far as you can until you can take it no further. And again, be clear about the idea of what it means to have an ability to act on something. And this is where we get into some of the other definitions in this segment: there are many different interpretations on your planet in people's minds about what it means to have the ability to act on something. So let's continue with the clarification.

"When you can act no further, choose the next most exciting thing you are able to take action on." Again, you will come to crossroads in acting on your excitement when it seems the excitement is exhausted, when it seems there is nothing else you can do. You've taken it as far as you can. Then again, when you come to those crossroads, you just repeat the process. You look around for the options that are available to you at that moment on any level, and you simply act on the one that contains more excitement than the other. And you keep repeating that process over and over and over and over and over again. And if you always do that, then your life will always be as exciting as it possibly can be at that moment, because you're always choosing the thing that contains more excitement than anything else. And you just keep on doing that. And why? Because you have given yourself no other choice, no reason to choose anything else. That's why. And that's as simple as it needs to be.

"And recognize the signs, reflections, and agreements that indicate an inability to take action." Again, this comes back down to the definitions of what ability means. Now, each and every one of you has different abilities. Each and every one of you has a different relationship with the collective. Each and every one of you may have different ways of doing things. And so what works for you may not work for someone else, and vice versa. So you have to really be aware of what your abilities are and what the synchronicity of your reality shows you you are able to actually do and not do.

Physical parameters, laws of society, moral values, and ethical standards can all indicate whether or not you have the ability to take action. This is the biggest one that needs the most clarification on your planet. Now, some of them are relatively obvious. Physical parameters: if you are literally physically unable to take action on something for whatever reason, then that means you are unable to take action on it. And that is as good as a crossroads. It's as good as an arrow pointing in another direction, saying, "This direction that you are unable to act on is not the path of least resistance. So please don't stand there banging your head against a brick wall. Turn left, turn right, go around, do something else. Choose another thing that excites you." The things that may look like obstacles physically are not obstacles; they're road signs guiding you that you need to turn left, you need to turn right, you need to turn around here and now. And that actually will be the path of least resistance.

Please remember that even though the path may seem to be winding and longer than another path you could take, if it is actually the path of least resistance, it will actually be the fastest path. Because even though another path may look shorter, if it's not the path of least resistance, it will take you longer to walk it. So don't be afraid of the winding path. If it's your true path, it will actually allow you to go with the flow much more easily.

Now, the idea again of what your society in general has agreed are different kinds of ethical and moral parameters are important for you to pay attention to, because you agreed to be part of this society. We understand that many times people on your planet don't necessarily agree or see the same things in the same way morally or ethically or even legally. But the idea is to understand that if you are part of a society that in general has agreed that these things are in place for the general benefit of that society, then you have to be very, very, very clear about why you might think it's important to go against the grain of that moral imperative, that ethical structure, or those legal standards called laws. Because if you go against them just because you can't see any other way, then you're just not being creative or imaginative enough.

The idea to understand is that you are part of that society, and you agreed to be. If you do not approve of certain laws or ethical standards, then you have every right to change them in whatever way works within your society to do so. But just violating them is not the way to do it. And the idea that the law or ethical standard exists is a sign and an indication that you don't have the ability to go in that direction. You need to see it as clearly as you would see a brick wall, again simply being an arrow pointing in an unexpected direction that is actually representative of the path of least resistance.

Let us add another example to this that we have become aware of, because this particular idea has been bandied about in your society now for quite a while. And specifically, we will use the example of what is called copyright law, since this seems to be a hotbed topic in your society. The idea that we have talked about—that you call pirating material that doesn't belong to you—is a perfect illustration of what we are saying here. There have been some individuals in your society that have come back with what you might loosely call a rebuttal to this concept of obeying the copyright laws by saying, "But there have been all sorts of laws in society that we really shouldn't have followed. For example, at one point slavery was legal. Should we follow those laws?"

This is really not a correct argument and is really very surface-oriented and actually misses the point. The difference between that scenario and what you are calling the copyright laws is not apples and oranges; it is apples and broccoli. It is two completely different concepts. The idea, first and foremost, and the basic understanding here is that, yes, we understand that there can be what you would call unjust laws in your society, and that there may be people who resist those and go against them and fight to change them in a variety of ways, and sometimes civil disobedience is one of those ways that you have available to you. But the real misunderstanding in that so-called argument—which is not really an argument at all—is the difference between the two ideas. Because what you would call slavery is designed to take people's rights away. Copyright law is designed to protect people's rights. That's the difference. And so such an argument simply means the person hasn't really thought it through. It is just what you would call a knee-jerk reaction to something they want to do, and they're simply creating an excuse in their minds or a reason to break laws that actually benefit your society and are actually just laws. So be very, very clear about the idea when you bring up arguments like that and reasons like that within your own mind as to whether they actually are relevant or not, or whether you're actually missing the point on a very basic level.

---

### **Part 3: Zero Insistence on Outcome**

**Bashar:**
And the next principle. Okay, so now we're actually on principle number three of the formula, which is: "Act on that excitement with absolutely zero insistence or assumption with respect to a specific outcome."

And the first sub-principle is: "Understand that insistence on a specific outcome, manifestation, or path may actually prevent a better manifestation than you imagined." The idea of insistence on a particular outcome may seem to be a focus on something that is the best thing you can possibly imagine, but in fact, it's actually a limitation. We have used to illustrate this point quite often the idea of visualization. Nothing wrong with visualization at all. Absolutely, it's a tool and a technique that you can use to imagine, to envision an ideal reality that you would absolutely love to experience, that you're excited about experiencing. Nothing wrong with that at all. Nothing contrary to your true vibration.

But here's the rub, here's the difference. As you say, when you imagine, when you picture, when you visualize that so-called ideal outcome, that ideal reality, and you see yourself in that picture, in that visualization, you get excited about what you're seeing.

**Bashar:** That's why you're visualizing it. You're pumping up your vibration, you're pumping up your excitement. You're getting excited about the idea, the possibility that this could actually manifest. And, "Oh boy, wouldn't that be wonderful? Wouldn't that be just delicious? Wouldn't that be the best possible thing that could happen in my life?" Well, maybe not. The idea is that maybe, maybe something even better than you were capable of imagining could happen. So if you insist on the picture that your physical mind created, how do you know you're not limiting yourself from something even better? Your higher mind may know of something even grander than your physical mind is capable of imagining, because your physical mind is not designed to know *how* something actually needs to happen. Your physical mind is only designed to know what's happening, to experience what's going on right now, what manifests right now. Only your higher mind knows what the true path is for you and tells you this, informs the physical mind through excitement so that the physical mind can know it too. But the physical mind doesn't have the capacity; it's not designed to know how exactly something really needs to unfold. But the higher mind knows this.

So when you amp yourself up, when you get yourself really excited by having that particular visualization that your physical mind was capable of conjuring, and you feel at the peak of excitement, drop the picture utterly. Zero insistence, zero assumption that it has to look like that, has to happen that way, you have to get there that way, or that anything specific about it really needs to come to fruition. Drop it utterly. But keep the vibration, the state of being of excitement. Then you are the driving engine itself that you have now made room for the manifestation that the higher mind can bring to you that is actually representative of that state of excitement, which may be far grander than your physical mind was capable of visualizing. So when you understand that insistence on a particular outcome is actually a limitation, you will drop it, as you say, like a hot potato. Or perhaps some of you will drop it like a hot potato.

And the next: "The thing itself that excites you may not need to come to fruition. It may only excite you to get you to take action in order to create the state of being in which that thing actually needs to manifest." Can so again, yes, the idea is that when you drop the insistence, when you drop the assumption in that context, you will start to realize that sometimes things will excite you but not for the reason you think. If you are holding on to certain beliefs that may make you resistant to moving in a certain direction—a direction you may really need to go in—something may crop up synchronistically in your life that will get you to move in that direction because it looks so exciting you just can't resist it. But never assume that the thing that excites you and gets you to move is the thing that actually has to manifest, because its job may only be to get you off your butt, and that may be it. And once you are moving, and once you are acting on your excitement, and once you're in that state of being, then the thing that really needs to be acted on and may really need to manifest can crop up as an opportunity and a circumstance before you. But never assume that what crops up actually has to be *it*. It may only be the thing that ignited you to start moving so you would have the momentum to take advantage of what really needs to manifest in your life.



### **The Complete Toolkit of Excitement**

**Bashar:** Okay. Well, acting on this three-part formula with integrity aligns you with the complete toolkit of excitement. That, when we say it's complete, we mean it's complete. If you need a refresher course on what that word means, please consult your local dictionary. Complete means it leaves nothing relevant out. That's the final piece of the toolkit.

But first and foremost, and again, please remember the toolkit is automatic, self-guiding, self-perpetuating. It works flawlessly all the time. And it becomes, when you activate this three-part formula of acting on your highest excitement every moment that you can to the best that you are able, with zero insistence on the outcome or how you get there, the methodology or anything like that, then you activate the kit to work for you in a positive way. And the kit becomes the driving engine. That's the first tool that moves you through life, accelerates you. It becomes the organizing principle in your life. Again, as we mentioned, through synchronicity showing you exactly what needs to be done in what order and when. And whatever doesn't get done by the end of the day, when you are excited about being tired and going to sleep—which is also an excitement—then it didn't need to be done that day. Because again, it's the organizing principle, and it knows exactly how to fill your day perfectly.

And again, please remember that when we talk about acting on your excitement, we don't mean, as we have said very often, that you have to be jumping up and down with your hair on fire. Excitement can be a sense of balanced peace. It can be a very relaxed, meditative state expressing your excitement. You don't have to be running around the room bouncing off the walls to say, "I'm excited! Look at me, I'm excited!"

And so, not only is it the driving engine and the organizing principle, but it is also the path of least resistance. It is also that which connects you to all other expressions of excitement, even if on the surface they look unconnected. It's the excitement that tells you that they are. It is also what gives you support in life in all the ways you need it, in all the forms it needs to come. Whatever form of abundance that may be will be the form that needs to be there. So again, drop the insistence on what form in which abundance may need to come, because again, you don't know what form actually may serve you best. If it's money, which we understand you have on your planet, then that's the form it'll come in. But if that's not the path of least resistance, another form of abundance may need to crop up, such as simply being gifted something. That's a form of abundance. But you must trust the synchronicity and the way your life unfolds in order to be open to all forms of abundance and not be insistent that it must come in a certain form, which, again paradoxically, closes the doors to which all other forms of abundance may actually reach you through.

It also contains the reflective mirror. This, that reveals to you as you're acting on your excitement, as you're moving forward, it reveals to you in no uncertain terms, by bringing them up to your attention, anything that may be in your subconscious or unconscious mind that is out of alignment with your true vibration. Any negative, fear-based beliefs that are out of alignment, it will bring them to your attention. So when you're acting on your excitement and suddenly one of these fear-based beliefs comes up, don't label that as something having gone wrong. That's exactly what needs to happen. Because you need to be aware of these things. You need to identify these negative beliefs consciously in order to see that they don't belong to you, in order to see that they make no sense, in order to see that that's not what you prefer, in order to consciously realize that's not what you prefer to choose. And once you let that go, then you will add its energy to your excitement, and you will continue to expand from there.

And once again, this being a complete kit, it leaves absolutely nothing relevant out of your life. That's what we mean by complete. It will contain everything you need in perfect place, in perfect timing. You will find yourself synchronistically where you need to be, when you need to be there, with whom you need to be, doing what you need to be doing. All these things are automatic. And if you're willing to go with the flow, you will start experiencing this synchronicity in that way more and more and more and more. Life will become more ecstatic. It will become more effortless. It will become more joyful. It will become more creative. It will become more loving. It will become more aware of who and what you are. Know thyself. This all boils down to that: know thyself. The ultimate formula: be aware of your definitions, be aware of what you're choosing, be aware of what story you're telling yourself and living out, and choose the ones that you prefer instead.

Again, this may not necessarily contain every single detail, but for now, it is sufficient. And if you are willing to follow these guidelines and allow yourself to learn very effectively and make them your own, these principles and sub-principles, and remind yourself if you find yourself slipping a little bit, go back to the sheet, remind yourself of the details here, of the precise definitions here, and then just move forward.



### **Origin and Parallel Realities**

**Asker 1:** how do I get home? I believe I'm not from the Earth.

**Bashar:** You're from the Earth. You, the physical you, come from Earth. We understand what you're referring to, however. But you're stating it in a very outdated, old-fashioned way that allows for a misunderstanding of this concept. It's an old idea that has outlived its time. It's time for a new definition in your 21st century of this concept. What you're actually saying is: what other realities that exist simultaneously with this one am I making connections to and becoming more aware of? That's what you're actually asking. Because you don't come from anywhere in particular, because everything, everywhere, every when, everyone, everything exists all at the same time. 

it's similar by analogy to the concept of your television. If you're watching a particular show—the Earth program—you know there are other programs playing at the same time, but you don't see them. They're invisible to you because you're not on that channel. But if you change the channel, oh look, suddenly another program appeared. It was going on at the same time my program was going on; I just didn't see it until I changed my frequency to another channel. But this is how reality works. All realities—what you call past, what you call future, what you call parallel realities, what you call other lives—are all existing right now. Because there is only now. Past and future are illusions. Now is the only thing that actually exists. But you create the appearance of a separation and the appearance of time and space in order to have a linear physical experience. But that's an illusion.

So when you say, "Well, where's my home?" Well, you, as a physical human on Earth, are from Earth. That's your home. But you are connected to many other places and many other times. And the fact that you are becoming aware of that is what you're experiencing, because your senses are expanding. You're exploring consciousness. Your senses allow you now to tap into things that were heretofore invisible to you or unable to be sensed by you. But you're interpreting it as coming from someplace else because you're interpreting it through the linear space-time frame of reference that things happened in the past and things will happen in the future. So you're putting it in that context. 

**Bashar:** you are connected to many different things. And in those energetic connections you are making from here, now, to those other lives that also exist now, you are drawing information and experience from them, just as they're doing from you to them to aid and assist them in their lives, just as you are drawing information and experience from them in their lives to aid and assist you in this life. So it's a cross-connecting web of the exchange of information and energy to aid and assist you in exploring the theme you chose to explore as this version of you, while all the other versions are also exploring their own themes, drawing from your life experience what they may need to help them in those lives that are going on right now alongside yours, even though they may be invisible to you.

you have connections to many different kinds of things, obviously different lives and different places historically speaking on your planet, which are all going on at the same time. But in terms of other civilizations, as many of you are right now, you are connected to the Sirian civilization, the Orion civilization, the Pleiadian civilization, the Arcturus civilization, many different things, hybrid civilizations including our own, and many other hybrid civilizations, and a few other things we're not really allowed to talk about right now. Nevertheless, you have all these connections in general, and you're drawing upon them in whatever way you need to. So that's what it means to say, "Where's my home?" It's: what connections do I have that are relevant for me in this life that I'm using to aid and assist in exploring my theme in this life? 


**Bashar:** when you think of things that way, in that sort of old-fashioned way, you're making a separation between where you are and where you think you would rather be. And the idea is not to run away from Earth and connect to those things because you think they're better. The idea is to bring those principles down to earth and create heaven on Earth. That's why it is your home. And you're always home. You're always home wherever you are. You're home.


### **Topic: Synchronicity and Sensory Expansion**

**Asker 2:** three years ago, I was doing one of your meditations, and um, it was about, "What train do you want to get on?" Getting on a... board a train because things are... the things are changing. Yes. The tracks are separating. So be on the train you want to be on, on the frequency level you want to be on. Yes. And I really enjoyed the meditation. And after I finished it, I looked out my window, and I saw falling lights coming down. Yes. From the sky.

**Bashar:** Well, you are shifting your vibration, as we said earlier, so that you are increasing the ability of your senses to see things that were heretofore invisible. There's all sorts of energy movement and different dimensional kinds of phenomenology all around you all the time. But your senses don't often stretch far enough to be able to perceive these things. But you began to see movement of energy in different dimensional ways once you had stretched yourself and allowed your senses to expand to that degree. You understand?


**Asker 2:** you said that we are... we have versions of everybody in a... we're in a room and we have... we each of you are creating your version of everyone else in your reality in order to interact with them. Yes. Yes. So when I interact with somebody, I'm creating my version of them. Yes. To learn what I need to learn. Yes. Um, and somebody else could have a completely different version of absolutely than I have. And that's why sometimes you have different stories for the same event or encounter. And so, even like if I just meet somebody... it's like just a casual meeting. Is that happening in those kinds of relationships?

**Bashar:** Yes. Because that's just the nature of the structure of physical reality experience. Everything is a reflection. So you have to create at least some version of it in order to experience it in your so-called physical reality, or you wouldn't be experiencing it at all. There are actually many, many other people—I'll just put it this way—many other people walking around you all the time you never see, because you don't need to include them in your reality, so you don't create a version of them to interact with. But there are thousands, millions of people walking around you all the time that you never know about.

**Asker 2:**
I feel like when I'm in a close relationship with somebody that I'm seeing, it's almost like I'm seeing aspects of myself.

**Bashar:**
Of course it is. Because that's the purpose of relationship. And it's very interesting, and it's fun, and um, yes, and challenging. And I see negative things and positive things also.

**Bashar:**
Now, this doesn't mean you can't recognize that someone else may actually be choosing something negative. That doesn't always mean it's a one-to-one reflection, that if you see something negative in someone else that you have that issue too. You have to be discerning about why that reflection is coming to you, because it may be for a variety of reasons that have many differences from what that person may be experiencing that reflection for, or your reflection for. Right? Again. But fundamentally, the purpose of all relationships is so that everyone in the relationship can reflect to the other people in the relationship what they need to know to learn more about themselves, to become more of who they are. That's the purpose of relationships. That's how you serve each other.


#### **Topic: Channeling**

**Asker 2:** And I'm also interested in channeling.

**Bashar:** you're channeling right now. Okay? All of you are. Yes. Remember, your personality is an artificial construct, an artificial projection. You have to channel your personality into being. So all of you are channeling right now. Okay? It's a natural state. You do it all the time. But you can do it in different ways on different frequency levels. Channeling... again, the channeling state is very natural. When you're doing anything you love to do, when you're "in the zone," as you say, when you're operating at peak performance, when you're completely focused and you don't even notice the passage of time, you're in a channeling state. Just depends on what you want to do with it at that point.

**Asker 2:** My question about that was, uh, I'm using these CDs to learn more about channeling, and I wanted to know if... do you mean vocal channeling?

**Bashar:** Yes. Vocal channeling.

**Asker 2:** All right. And so, and I wanted to know if it would be beneficial for me to have, uh, a teacher, like a one-on-one teacher?

**Bashar:**
Well, if it is, you will attract it, won't you? Okay? And why will that happen? Why will that happen?

**Asker 2:**
I'm excited about it.

**Bashar:**
Why will that happen? I'm excited about it. And you're excited about it means it will happen automatically. Because excitement is a complete kit and leaves nothing relevant out. Yes. Including teachers, if you need them. Yes. Yes. Right? Teachers fall into that category of "nothing relevant being left out," right? Or are they a separate animal?

**Asker 2:**
No. Teachers fall into that.

**Bashar:**
All right. Then whatever is yes, and whatever is really relevant for you will appear. Because I... I kind of felt like maybe I need a teacher, but I'm... I'm enjoying what I'm doing right now.

**Bashar:**
So all right. One of the best ways to learn, one of the best ways to learn vocal channeling, is to channel for other people. Yes. Not just for yourself. Because when you're actually channeling to people asking questions, they act as a grounding mechanism. They pull the information through you and ground it in them. And then you can just get out of the way. You don't have to wonder or think about what you're doing. The idea is that if you're in a certain state, you can just receive information telepathically in an instant. You don't need to actually go into the so-called channeling state for yourself. You only do that, just as the channel before you does it, so that our thoughts can translate through him to you. He doesn't need to do this for himself; he can receive information from us like that. But in order to translate our thoughts to you, he goes into this channeling state, as you call it. So if you're channeling for others, and they're asking questions about things they really wish to know, and you just get out of your own way, the information will come through more easily than doing it on your own and wondering whether or not you're receiving what you need to receive. Again, it's like water. It's like electricity. It goes along the path of least resistance and it grounds itself.


#### **Topic: Hybrid Lineage and Excitement**

**Asker 3:**
Hello everyone. Hi. Bashar. And are you good day?

**Bashar:**
Hi. So my question is not a question but a question. Not a question but a question.

**Bashar:**
Yes. I know it sounds weird.

**Asker 3:**
Um, I feel that you have been me, or being of your kind, have been with me for a long time. I felt as if you guys were with me before I came here. Yes. I was led to you. I've only found you seven days ago. All right. Um, uh, and so, and so I guess what I'm trying to say is, uh, my family lineage comes back far, and I believe that we were part of a hybridism, um, in France, of some sort, many generations ago. We all can channel on my mother's side. There's my... with my daughter will be six generations. All right. Uh, and so, what are you doing with that information in your life?

**Bashar:**
Well, I keep getting, um, synchronicity. I, um, yes. I, um, landed, um, on "hybrid," hybrid, after I talked to my husband about how I felt that I was... well, all of you are hybridized. That's what you are as a human. But there have also been other alterations in many of you. Yes. Um, and so, again, and so I believe, I believe that yes, that if that's been something that's happened to me, and if... if, but it doesn't really much matter. The idea is: what do you do with that knowledge? How do you apply it in your physical reality to act on your excitement?

**Asker 3:**
Yeah. It's... I mean, do you have an answer to that? I... I really don't. No. Um, I mean, I do. I mean, I know that I have high... children. Oh. All right. Well, I have 12. And so, and my husband has over 20. All right. And so I don't know really what to do with it. I've just come... you know what to do with it. Exactly. We've been explaining it all along. Act on your highest excitement to the best of your ability with no insistence on a particular outcome. Yes. And it will lead you where you need to be led, and you will experience what you need to experience. But you need to act on something that contains excitement every moment that you can in order for your life to unfold in an automatic way and wind up where you need to be, when you need to be there, with whom you need to be. Exactly. That's it. You said it. Okay.

**Asker 3:**
Uh, I'm sorry. One more.

**Bashar:**
Um, well, you don't have to apologize. I always do the sorry thing. I don't know why.

**Asker 3:**
All right. Well, why don't you work on that?

**Bashar:**
I know. Right? I've been working on a lot, I'll tell you.

**Asker 3:**
Well, that's the challenge, isn't it?

**Bashar:**
Yes. It is. And I love it. And I want it to keep coming.

**Asker 3:**
It will. Awesome. Trust me. It won't stop. No. Ever. Ever. Even beyond this life, it won't stop.

**Asker 3:**
That's awesome. Um, okay. So with this hybridism, and I, um, okay. So with this hybridism, and I guess, do you... maybe I should do a one-on-one session with you?

**Bashar:**
Well, if you wish, yes.

**Asker 3:**
Um, I have a lot. Uh, all right. Well, you can avail yourself of that opportunity. And again, it will happen when it needs to. I've been kind of stuck with an illness for a while. And stuck. It's been kind of a stuck feeling. Yes. And I've been trying to do everything I possibly can.

**Bashar:**
All right. Well, we don't really do health readings anymore.

**Asker 3:**
No. It's not... it's not a health reading. It's... it's kind of like, I know that I know what I need to do and get do it. And I have so many different entities like coming through to me, if that makes sense. Being like, one day, like, I could be communicating with you guys, and then I'm communicating with the Arcturians, and then I'm... so average day for us too. Is that cuz I'm kind of, you know, I've had it my whole life, but I've kind of had a lot of events that drowned, you know, a lot of memories. And here I am, and now I'm fully awake, almost. I feel as... all right. As if, and so again, the question still comes down to: what are you going to do with that? How are you going to apply it? Get it going. Just do it.

**Asker 3:**
Yes. Thank you. That my excitement. Yeah. That's it. Yeah. I guess so. There you go. Yeah. Do you believe... one question. Do I mean, can you foresee... do I have hybrid children?

**Bashar:**
Yes. You do.

**Asker 3:**
Okay. Is 12? I get the number 12.

**Bashar:**
No. I mean, I got 12.

**Asker 3:**
No. More than 12? I've asked 13.

**Bashar:**
No. 12. It's a yes. It's gar... like they're saying 12. So I don't know. It's just a number.

**Bashar:**
You know? Yes. It is just the number. I'm just... it's so weird just to think, and this all just happened within seven days. I was guided right to you.

**Bashar:**
That's how things accelerate. I love it.

**Asker 3:**
But I... it's nice to meet you. And I hope, I hope that I actually get to channel you as well.

**Bashar:**
And no, you will not.

**Asker 3:**
Oh, that sucks.

**Bashar:**
No, it doesn't.

**Asker 3:**
So, so do you have... do you... are there other... no one else will channel me specifically.

**Bashar:**
That's great. But you may tap into our collective, and something else may come through. But it won't be me. Even if it feels like it, it's just that you're familiar with our energy, and therefore you may think it is, because many beings in my society are similar in vibration. But it will be something else.

**Asker 3:**
Do you know of any with that start with, like, Nahara or Nara?

**Bashar:**
We don't have names. No names. No. Bashar is not my name. It's an Arabic word that means "messenger," because we know you needed to call us something other than "Hey, you."

**Asker 3:**
Okay. Cuz I was asking for a while, like, okay, so who is it that I am channeling? What is this? And I got the name Nara.

**Bashar:**
That's fine. That actually is more representative of your higher mind. Okay. And that's... I kind of was thinking that. One of the first things that most of you, when you go into the idea of vocal channeling mode, will encounter is the integration of the different aspects of your own consciousness. And some of those aspects of higher mind and so on and so forth may come through first to prep you for other things. You don't have to assume that those things or those beings or those levels of consciousness are anything in particular in order to channel the information that's important and necessary for you to channel. In fact, in many cases, you want to actually lessen your desire to be that specific, because being that specific and that detail-oriented about who's coming through now, and what is your name, and where do you come from, can actually get in your way of bringing the information through that's important.

**Asker 3:**
You are correct. I know that's why I said it.

**Bashar:**
So does that help you?

**Asker 3:**
Yes. It does. But I have a question about crystals.

**Bashar:**
Yes.

**Asker 3:**
I was guided. I'm from Arizona, Head City, where I lived there for many years, the Valley. Um, I was guided. I was... went to my husband and I said, "Hey, I think, you know, we have to go to Arizona First Mountain, you know. We find these crystals. It's full of crystals. I'm on the mountain. I just shake when I'm on this mountain. I feel like there's underground caves." How exciting it is. And these crystals that I'm guided to, I have so many. And then I know that I'm guided back out to this mountain to keep getting these crystals. And I'm wondering, what am I supposed to be doing with...

**Bashar:**
Do you understand our concept of permission slips?

**Asker 3:**
Yes. You just... I just actually watch the video.

**Bashar:**
Then that's all you need to know. Okay? When it works for you, it works for you. If it no longer works, do something else. If you think you need a permission slip at all, because you are the ultimate permission slip.

**Asker 3:**
I am. Thank you so much.

**Bashar:**
So these things, these objects, rituals, techniques, and tools that reflect certain things to you are just reflecting where your belief system is at. And by bringing in those particular permission slip objects or tools or rituals or techniques, you are giving yourself permission to circumvent certain beliefs in order to expand yourself beyond what you heretofore believed was possible. That's how they work. They're just a reflection of what you're now willing to do because you believe the permission slip is giving you the ability to do something you didn't think you had the ability to do before. But you're doing it anyway.

**Asker 3:**
Yes. I am. All right. Well, thank you. And I thank you. And it was nice to meet you.

**Bashar:**
And you as well. Thank you.

*[Applause]*

---

#### **Topic: Advice on Vocal Channeling**

**Asker 4:**
Hello, Bashar. Any of you? Good day. Um, I was wondering if you could give any advice on channeling, vocal channeling.

**Bashar:**
I just did. I know.

**Asker 4:**
Now I don't have a question.

**Bashar:**
That's all right. You can make a statement if you wish. You don't need to have a question to speak with us. Well, why are you interested in vocal channeling? I'll ask you the questions.

**Asker 4:**
Because I'm doing that, and you're already doing it.

**Bashar:**
Yeah. But why is that exciting for you?

**Asker 4:**
Because it's exciting. And, uh, no good reason. Different. I like it.

**Bashar:**
All right. And so will you do it publicly? Are you doing it publicly?

**Asker 4:**
I've been doing it for my family. Publicly? No.

**Bashar:**
You don't have to. I'm just asking a question. Is that part of your excitement or not?

**Asker 4:**
It could be.

**Bashar:**
Oh, all right. Do you want to explore that?

**Asker 4:**
Yeah.

**Bashar:**
All right. How will you do that?

**Asker 4:**
By going out in public and trying to do it, I guess.

**Bashar:**
Is that a question? Um, will you start having seminars and invite people to come that you don't know, so you can channel for them?

**Asker 4:**
Depends if I'm still on this Earth.

**Bashar:**
What makes you think you wouldn't be?

**Asker 4:**
I don't know. Someone told me something.

**Bashar:**
What did they tell you?

**Asker 4:**
That I might be going soon.

**Bashar:**
All right. Well, if you do, then you'll know it, and that will be the perfect timing. If it happens automatically. All right? Because anytime that you're really done—if you were really done, you'd be gone. And if you are wondering whether or not you're done, all you need to do is lie down on the floor and close your eyes and count to 10. And if you can open them at the end, you're not done.

**Asker 4:**
Okay. Yeah. I didn't mean dead.

**Bashar:**
But that's it. Because you were saying, "I'm done. I'm ready to go." If you really were done, you'd be gone. Okay.

**Asker 4:**
Um, can you tell me anything about the channeled writings I've done?

**Bashar:**
The what? Writings of what? I have no idea. It's... do you mean automatic writing?

**Asker 4:**
Mhm.

**Bashar:**
What about it?

**Asker 4:**
I don't know anything about it. Like, I don't even... well, it's a form of channeling, but you're allowing the information to be translated through writing instead of through vocal.

**Bashar:**
Yeah. Um, what else do you need to know about that?

**Asker 4:**
Just want to know if they have any meaning.

**Bashar:**
What do you mean if they have any meaning? You mean things that you've written?

**Asker 4:**
Yeah. Like, have any symbolic meanings?

**Bashar:**
I don't know. What's it for? Are you saying that what you're writing is not decipherable by you?

**Asker 4:**
No.

**Bashar:**
Why not?

**Asker 4:**
Uh, it's from... it's like a different language. And also, so it's just like of things that... well, you may be gathering together certain connections that you have to help inspire you to move forward. But ultimately, the idea of automatic writing is to write in a language that you can decipher. So for now, you may just be gathering information in a way that's connecting to what you call ancient lives and things like that to give you more ability, more impetus, more confidence about moving forward. But ultimately, if you continue automatic writing, it ultimately would come out in a form that you actually can read, okay? And other people can read. Otherwise, what's the point?

**Asker 4:**
Do you know a Sassi?

**Bashar:**
Not by that name. What is it to you?

**Asker 4:**
Uh, he's the person I channel.

**Bashar:**
All right. What is it to you?

**Asker 4:**
I don't know. He told me he... you know him in some form.

**Bashar:**
Well, all right. We know many of your higher minds in some form. So it may be that. But we can't always discern specifically, because you're dealing with millions and millions and millions of entities. Is there anything that I need to know?

**Asker 4:**
There are many things you need to know at this time. But you'll find them all out if you keep acting on your excitement.

**Asker 4:**
Okay. Why? Thank you.

**Bashar:**
You will know what you need to know when you need to know it. Not a second before you need to know it. But I guarantee you, not a second later than you need to know it, if you remain in the present.

**Asker 4:**
All right. Yes. Yeah. Does this help you?

**Asker 4:**
Mhm.

**Bashar:**
All right. Thank you, Bashar.

**Asker 4:**
Thank you.

---

#### **Topic: Dreams and Karma**

**Bashar:**
Remember that through all this information that we share with all of you, the bottom line is that we are encouraging you to know: you are self-empowered. Decide for yourselves. Discern for yourselves. Choose for yourselves what is really true for you. And do it. Simple as that. You don't have to overcomplicate it, overthink it, overanalyze it, break it down into so many details that take so much more time to deal with. You don't have to manipulate and control things and force them into position. Just let them. Just allow them. This is one of the reasons why we are going to be talking about allowance in an upcoming transmission, so that there is more clarity about exactly what that means and how to do it. It's simple.

**Asker 5 (Andre):**
Yes. Hello, Andre. You good day?

**Bashar:**
I want to start by saying, and, uh, thank you for all you do. Uh, all right. Well, thank you for allowing the information to be used by you in your life in an impactful way. Thank you.

**Asker 5:**
Um, yes. I'd like to talk about, uh, dreams.

**Bashar:**
Yes.

**Asker 5:**
Who are these drop-ins? Who are the characters? Drop-in? Well, I mean, I've seen these... these, uh, see my face on every character in the dreams at times. I've seen different ones, but I mean, everything that happens during the day, yes, seems to happen in the dreams.

**Bashar:**
Well, sometimes that's what dreams do. You are re-calibrating, reassessing, reprocessing your daily experience. That's one kind of dream. It's not the only kind, but it's one kind. You are going over your footprints, in a sense, going over your blueprints, making sure that that's what you really wanted to experience. You may be making some subtle alterations, some subtle changes to experience something different next in the physical dream. Because physical reality is another dream of a type.

**Asker 5:**
So that just sounds like a processing dream. Like an assessment dream. Making sure that you're doing what you really prefer to be doing. Looking at yourself, reflecting things to yourself, examining yourself from that particular series of points of view.

**Bashar:**
Okay. I've read some recommendations that you've had, like *Journey of Souls*, *Destiny of Souls*, and in there they talk about karma a lot.

**Bashar:**
Um, well, karma is really, again, kind of an outmoded definition. It's just an issue of balance. That's all it really is. It's an issue of recognition of being out of balance and making a choice to go back into balance. And if you make a choice to go back into balance, then there is no karma. That's the whole point. It's just that impetus, that urge, that energy that encourages you to go back into balance with creation. If you want to call it karma, by all means. But it's really just the sensation when you're out of balance. That's all it really is. It's a correcting mechanism. Okay? Make sense?

**Asker 5:**
Yes, sir.

**Bashar:**
All right. Oh, more formality.

**Asker 5:**
Okay. I knew I was going to do that.

**Bashar:**
Yes, sir. I... sir. Let's, uh, skip a couple of frames. Maybe. Uh, all right. Bop bop. Skipped. Skipped. Uh, in a sense, you're my higher mind. And, and, uh, I'm a reflection of it.

**Bashar:**
Yes. A reflection of it.

**Asker 5:**
So, so say you were in this physical body, what would you be doing in this physical body? What would you take from this whole event? What would you do after leaving in this physical body?

**Bashar:**
But what are your choices? Name some choices.

**Asker 5:**
Well, it's all going to change once I leave here. Everything's... yes. CH. But if you're going through an exercise now, you can make some choices now, even if they change when you actually leave. This is just practice for recognizing that you have choices when you leave, and that all you need to do is pick the most exciting one, whatever it is at that particular moment. But what you were asking to do, in a sense, is practice.

**Asker 5:**
Well, I currently have the occupation as a truck driver.

**Bashar:**
All right. Is that exciting for you?

**Asker 5:**
Well, sometimes it...

**Bashar:**
That means no.

**Asker 5:**
Yeah. I knew that was coming.

**Bashar:**
All right. See how psychic you are? I've been trying to train myself that there is no concept that time doesn't exist. All there is is the moment.

**Bashar:**
It does as an experience. Yeah. As an experience. Even though it's also an illusion or a side effect. But that doesn't deny the experience of time.

**Asker 5:**
The challenging thing is, uh, with... with this occupation is that, uh, uh, everything is constructed around time. You know, the whole occupation, from the electronic logs, place getting to that place.

**Bashar:**
All right. Well, if there are aspects of it you do find exciting, then perhaps you can learn to do the rest of them in a more exciting way. Or this may be your message to yourself telling you that there's something more exciting you could be doing. Do you not believe yet that a more exciting thing can support you in life?

**Asker 5:**
Uh, the ego is a little stubborn.

**Bashar:**
Um, well, why would you choose to be stubborn?

**Asker 5:**
Because that's a choice.

**Bashar:**
Well, we currently live under a monetary system that, uh, requires...

**Asker 5:**
I don't care.

**Bashar:**
Yeah. That's an excuse. Do you believe or do you not believe that what excites you can support you? It's all right for you to say, "No, I don't believe it yet." Because if you don't believe it yet, it's not wise to leave the thing you're doing you believe does support you, until such time as you've practiced acting on your excitement enough to let it prove to you that it can actually support you. And then, when you're good and ready to let go of the things you are not excited about, because for now you believe you need them to be supported, then you will let them go. And you will allow your excitement to show you every moment that it actually can support you in whatever way you actually truly need to be supported. Which I've already said isn't always with money. But you have to be open to the different forms of support, the different forms of abundance. Because you're always abundant in something. But you can be abundant in things you don't prefer to be abundant in. But you are never *not* abundant. It's impossible for you, any of you, to not be abundant. It's just a matter of what you're abundant in. So no one lacks abundance. But you can have an abundance of lack.

**Asker 5:**
Well, it's been enough.

**Bashar:**
So when you turn the definition around that way, you will realize, "Well, this is easier. I don't have to learn to be abundant. I just have to choose how I can be more abundant in more ways."

**Asker 5:**
I'm okay with that. I will allow more abundance to come into my life in all the ways it needs to, whatever the path of least resistance truly is. If sometimes that's money, so be it. If sometimes it's a gift, so be it. If sometimes it's a synchronous experience, so be it. Because you're not making a differentiation between the different forms of abundance as one being more valid than another. Because it isn't.

**Bashar:**
Is this helping?

**Asker 5:**
It does. Helping absolutely.

**Bashar:**
All right. So when you allow yourself to practice doing what excites you more than what you're doing, it will eventually show you that it can support you. And when you're ready, maybe you'll make the switch. When you finally believe it can, you will make the switch. But until you believe it can, don't make the switch. Because it's not wise, as we say, to jump off a cliff if you don't believe you have a parachute. You'll just go splat. But the timing is up to you. Since you are concerned with time, the timing is up to you. Does this help?

**Asker 5:**
Yes. Absolutely. Thank you very much.

**Bashar:**
I... I think that bar covers... covers it for now. Then my advice to you for the moment would be: keep on trucking.

**Asker 5:**
Keep... thank you. Thank you.

---

#### **Topic: Beauty, Self-Worth, and Reiki**

**Asker 6:**
Hello, Bashar. How you? Good day. I just want to say you're awesome. I only have some awe. I thought I was full of awe, which makes me a full... okay. All right. But thank you. Okay. I wrote down my question actually before I got here because I knew I would be called. All right. Well, speak up and be bold and be clear so that all may hear what you have to share. All right. I am told, and I intend to use beauty as a doorway toward obtaining wealth, power, in order to bring forth occult practices, magic, art, healing, science, and technological advancements for humanity.

**Bashar:**
Well, good for you.

**Asker 6:**
But, but after that statement, there's a... but. My goodness. I know. I need to know two things. Yes. Number one being: what, um, what is beauty in this truest form? And also, how can I believe in myself enough that this amazing destiny is possible without doubting myself? Because I find myself thinking, "Who am I to..." Oh, yes. "Who am I? Poor little me. Lousy, unworthy, undeserving me. Why should I experience grace and beauty and alignment and love and creativity, even though I can imagine them? Perhaps I'm just being tortured by being able to, because I'll never achieve that, because I'm not worthy of the things that I'm capable of imagining." What kind of a reality are you imagining here? One where you can imagine such things but not be capable of them? That's not possible. What's your definition here? Look at your definitions, because that's where all this is coming from.

The idea of doubt is not a lack of trust. You don't have a lack of trust. You have a 100% trust in a definition of yourself that's out of alignment. Do you understand? Yeah. You are trusting a definition of yourself that's out of alignment. That's what doubt is: trust in a definition that's not true for you. So when you realize that and start looking for the definition and creating the definition that you believe is true for you, and start trusting that, you will experience life in a very different way. In an expanding way. In the way that you have described it. As long as, again, you're not insisting on the particular way in which those things may unfold. You follow?

**Asker 6:**
Yeah. Yeah. Meaning you're not sure.

**Bashar:**
No. I'm not sure. Oh, thank you for being honest. So are you following what we're saying here? That's beauty. Being in alignment with yourself is true beauty.

**Asker 6:**
Yes. Yeah.

**Bashar:**
So be beautiful. And don't consider yourself ugly by being out of alignment with your true self and buying into negative, fear-based beliefs about yourself that allow you to buy into definitions that have nothing to do with you. You may have bought into these definitions, and they may have been spoon-fed to you while you were growing up from your parents, from your friends, from your society, from your school: "You're not good enough. You're not worthy. You're not deserving. Blah blah blah." Those are usually statements that *they* fear are true about themselves, and have nothing to do with you. Do you understand? You're carrying around baggage that doesn't belong to you. That's what weighs you down. Anytime you feel weighed down, anytime you feel hamstrung in that way, like you're dragging a weight, and you're playing the victim game, you are then given the clue, because of how it feels that you're dragging around ideas and beliefs about yourself that just aren't true. The things that belong to you weigh nothing. They're light as a feather. The truth is light as a feather. You understand? Yeah. So if you feel weighed down, if you feel blocked, stuck, unable to be who you prefer to be, that means you've got a definition that you're unaware of, and you need to find out what it is. Because as soon as you find out what the definition is that's out of alignment with your true self, as soon as you identify it consciously, it will appear immediately nonsensical and illogical. And as soon as it appears that way, you'll drop it. It'll be gone. But if it's not gone, you haven't found it yet. So dig deeper.

**Asker 6:**
I think I found it just now.

**Bashar:**
Oh, all right. What is it?

**Asker 6:**
I... I believe that I couldn't have it all.

**Bashar:**
Why not?

**Asker 6:**
I don't know.

**Bashar:**
Because you understand that you may not have everything that exists, but certainly you are entitled to everything that is relevant for you. Which means you can have all of what's relevant for you. And why would you want anything else but that anyway?

**Asker 6:**
Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Makes sense. It does. Yeah. It's simple, isn't it?

**Bashar:**
Yeah. Bring it down to the proper definition, and it will be very simple to understand. If it's still difficult to understand, still seems too complicated, then you have negative definitions that you need to let go of. Because the truth is simple. Beauty is simple. You understand? Yeah. Does this help you?

**Asker 6:**
It does. All right. Anything else?

**Asker 6:**
Um, one more thing. Yes. Why has Reiki worked so well for me?

**Bashar:**
Well, it's a permission slip that obviously resonates with you. Do you understand permission slips?

**Asker 6:**
You do. You understand permission slips? Yes. We've explained them.

**Bashar:**
Um, all tools, all techniques, all rituals, all practices, all exercises, all objects, all of them are permission slips. You believe with your belief system will allow you to be more of who you are. They allow you to give yourself permission to be more of who you know yourself to be. You don't really need the permission slip, but you can use them in beneficial ways for yourself, for other people who gravitate with their belief systems to those particular permission slips that allow them to become more of who they are through those interactions, through those relations, through those interchanges and encounters that you call Reiki, or meditation, or yoga, or crystals, or anything. If it aligns with your belief in a way that allows you to be more of who you are, then it's a permission slip that works for you at that moment. When it no longer works, find another one. Or get to the point where you realize that you're the one giving yourself permission anyway, and you don't really need any other tool, technique, ritual, object, practice, or so forth in order to actually be more of who you are. But that's up to you.

**Asker 6:**
Okay. Does this help?

**Asker 6:**
All right. Yeah. It does. Thank you. You're welcome.

*[Applause]*

---

#### **Topic: Future Technology and Quantum Physics**

**Asker 7:**
Welcome. How you doing, Bashar? Perfect. And you? Perfect as well. All right. Okay. Uh, my question is, uh, so I'm... I'm very interested in technology. Yes. Um, can you talk about the next, next couple of decades? Uh, can you talk about where it's going here on Earth and with humans as a whole?

**Bashar:**
Yes. Well, many of you already know some of the paths that your science and technology is taking, such as going into a deeper understanding of what you have labeled the quantum level. Yes. Right. Yeah. And understanding that you will apply this in a variety of ways: quantum computers, quantum devices, so on and so forth, that take advantage of the multiple parallel realities that exist all around you by tapping into them from the quantum level, but then translating them into what you call the macroscopic level of your technology. That will become more and more prevalent. You will eventually finally allow yourselves to actually have what you would call free energy devices, which you have had from time to time, but of course the society you have created has suppressed them. But you will finally stop doing that. Eventually.

**Asker 7:**
How are we going to use that quantum level type of, uh, technology that you said the scientists are...

**Bashar:**
Well, you're beginning to understand—at least some of your scientists are beginning to understand—that while they used to think that the classical physics level and the quantum physics level were not really reconcilable, they're beginning to understand in a variety of ways that there are actually quantum effects in your macroscopic, classical physics situations. Especially in what you call your biology. Your brain is a quantum computer. They're beginning to understand that many of the enzymes in your body actually function using quantum principles, which they never thought possible before. The trees around you use quantum principles to turn sunlight into energy. You're beginning to understand this. And you will begin to know how they do it, and you can adapt that technology for yourselves.

**Asker 7:**
Okay. Um, just, uh, let's see here. Um, I've heard you talk about densities. Yeah. Um, are we ascending? Is... I have heard too much, but are we, as of our humans...

**Bashar:**
Well, in general, yes. If you are exploring consciousness, willing to expand in that way, then yes, you're upping your frequency, and that is equivalent to the idea of ascension.

**Asker 7:**
Um, just going back right now to the part where you said that the quantum, you know, level of technology is becoming the future. How far in the future is that? Uh, can you give it a rough...

**Bashar:**
Well, depends on what you mean by "is that," because there are many, many different things coming up in your future. But generally speaking, you would find, as we read the energy of your society now and translated into a timeline, that no later than 2050 will many of these principles start making their way into your daily lives.

**Asker 7:**
Okay. That's quite a while.

**Bashar:**
Not really. Yeah. I didn't say you had to wait until then. I said *by* then, at the outside, many of these principles will be experienced in your daily life.

**Asker 7:**
Great. Um, how can I discover my own life's theme? I've heard you talk about theme.

**Bashar:**
By acting on your highest excitement to the best of your ability with no insistence on a particular outcome. And whatever challenges you face by doing that are the themes you chose to explore.

**Asker 7:**
That a feeling you're going to say that. Well, I guess you're already using the quantum level then.

**Bashar:**
I had a feeling you were going to say that too. Just kidding.

**Asker 7:**
Okay. Thank you.

**Bashar:**
Does that help?

**Asker 7:**
Yes. Yes. It does. Well, thank you. Thank you.

*[Applause]*

---

#### **Topic: UFO Sighting and Arcturian Energy**

**Asker 8:**
Well, hey, Masar. And are you a good day?

**Bashar:**
On, uh, the 10th of September, I was coming out of the mountains after El... Cunning? And, uh, up on the skyline was a big ship.

**Bashar:**
Yes. I love what did it look like?

**Asker 8:**
It was round.

**Bashar:**
Yes. You mean disc-like or spherical?

**Asker 8:**
Um, spherical. All right. Like, it wasn't like a disc. It was just completely round. A ball.

**Bashar:**
A ball. Yeah. All right. And bright?

**Asker 8:**
Yes. Um, gold. Kind of bronze.

**Bashar:**
Yeah. Um, I saw it when I topped out of the mountain, and I drove for about 3 to 5 minutes, yeah, and could see it in the sky.

**Bashar:**
Well, yes. As opposed to on the ground or in the water.

**Asker 8:**
Well, like that, there was nothing else around. Like, there... all right. Meaning there were no mountains in the way. It was just completely sitting in the sky.

**Bashar:**
All right. And so then what happened?

**Asker 8:**
So the amount of information, the... the feeling state was so overwhelming. Um, yes. A lot of, uh, a lot of information. A lot of clarity.

**Bashar:**
Well, that's exciting.

**Asker 8:**
Yes. Yes. No, not exciting. Yes. Amazing. Exciting.

**Bashar:**
Oh, all right. Yes. Um, maybe the most exciting thing ever in my whole life.

**Bashar:**
Well, so far. Yeah. I'm just getting warmed up. Oh, all right.

**Asker 8:**
Um, so can you share who that was? Whose ship that was? I would love to know that information.

**Bashar:**
Why would you love to know?

**Asker 8:**
I knew you would ask me that. I... I sat here. I was like, if I could answer that question, I wouldn't answer... ask this question. And I could not come up with why, other than that is a permission slip to uncover and, uh, explore deeper into this next reality.

**Bashar:**
And the state of being that you experienced while you were observing the craft was also given to you to know the state of being you need to come from when you act in life.

**Asker 8:**
Yes. All I got was, "You are the light of the world." That was over and over and over.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Yes. Yes. You are made of light. Thank you. And if you match the frequency of that experience and act from that frequency in everything you do, everything you do, in a sense, will be on the level of the highest frequency of light that you can manifest at this point.

**Asker 8:**
So can you tell me who I'm working on? It. I'm warming up to... *[Laughter]* It. The... the other thing that happened was I realized that being human, yes, that not everybody sees each other as we relate to ourselves. Of course not. We have these relationships where it's like, I feel like I'm this, and that person's relating to me. Yes. Other than that, as we already said, you're creating your own version of everyone else to suit whatever it is you need to experience in life, in one way, shape, or form.

**Asker 8:**
Okay. So my relationship to them was that they knew me as I knew myself to be. Yes. Completely. Clearly. I wasn't convincing them. I wasn't trying to explain myself. I was just light.

**Bashar:**
Yes. And the message, "You are the light," was a message that reflects that another version of you in a nonphysical energy form was on the ship.

**Asker 8:**
Yeah. That makes sense. I know that's why I said it.

**Bashar:**
Well, yeah. Well, meaning it's an Arcturian energy. It's an Arcturian energy.

**Asker 8:**
Okay. So how does that sit with you?

**Bashar:**
The Arcturus energy gate is specifically for the purpose of allowing people to remember more of who they truly are on a bigger level. Therefore, it was reminding you that you are made of light, and that literally the version of you on the ship is also literally non-physically made of light. It's a non-physical consciousness. And so is the ship. Not actually physical.

**Asker 8:**
Um, so based on my vibratory state at that time, I was... was able to see that.

**Bashar:**
Yes. In that reality. In exactly.

**Asker 8:**
Okay. When I, um, so I kind of cleared the mountains and then went through a gate, and then it was still sitting there. As I said, a gate. All the symbols are there. Use your... finally. I... I had a client with me, and I, um, he was on his phone the whole time. And I finally, I said to him, "What is that?" And he turned and looked at it, and then, and said a few cuss words, like, "What?" And then it disappeared.

**Bashar:**
Yeah. As soon as he saw it, they left. Well, it wasn't exactly for him.

**Asker 8:**
Yeah. It felt very specific in that moment for me.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Well, you had a date to meet yourself.

**Asker 8:**
It... it actually even felt like it had, and I know time is... B. It all is now. But it felt like, in my linear timeline, from my current experience, from this point of view, that it had been put in place.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Exactly. You put it there.

**Asker 8:**
Yeah. It felt like from the other side. Yeah. That's how it felt to. And it actually felt like a reminder. Yes. Because something left, like a... a... it's your giant Post-it note in the sky: "Remember who you are." Note to self.

**Bashar:**
Does this help?

**Asker 8:**
Yeah. All right. Anything else, or will that suffice?

**Asker 8:**
That's decent. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Last, uh, in, uh, yes, California, I got to talk to you and changed my whole relationship to my imagination as myself.

**Bashar:**
Oh, well, thank you for doing that. Yeah. Thank you. And thank you for your enlightening conversation.

*[Applause]*

---

#### **Topic: Truth, Fiction, and Perspective**

**Asker 9:**
Hello, Bashar. And do you good day?

**Bashar:**
Um, oh, this is exciting. No. All right. Yes. Uh, a lot of things in life don't really make sense. And why should they? So you can understand them. I'm guessing you're guessing. I'm all right. You know, there is a famous quote on your planet about that.

**Asker 9:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
No. Will you have a saying on your planet that truth is stranger than fiction?

**Asker 9:**
Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:**
And one of your famous authors, Mark Twain, Samuel Clemens, said, "Why shouldn't truth be stranger than fiction? After all, fiction has to make sense." Now, there are levels at which you can understand what may seem to not make sense on one level but does on another. So if the things that you're experiencing don't seem to make sense on the level you're looking at them at, you need to go to another level to see them. Again, a famous quote from your Einstein: "A problem cannot be solved from the same level in which the problem was created. You have to go to a higher level to see the solution." So similarly, if things don't make sense, you need to look at them from a higher perspective. And then, in most cases, they will start to make sense. But you may need to see them through a different definition, with different eyes. Does that make sense?

**Asker 9:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
And so, anything else you want to explore about this, or is that sufficient for you?

**Asker 9:**
That's good.

**Bashar:**
Are you sure?

**Asker 9:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
Are you positive?

**Asker 9:**
Yes. Absolutely. Yes. All right. Thank you. Thank you.

*[Applause]*

---

#### **Topic: The Berenstain Bears and Parallel Realities**

**Bashar:**
Okay. We have about 15 more minutes. Can you have 15 minutes?

**Asker 10 (Jory):**
No. No. I said we... we have 15 more minutes. Oh, all right. So, um, one name or two? You may start with one and see where we're at. All right. You're so logical, Bashar. It's nice to have logic. Okay. The next name is Jory.

**Jory:**
C. Hi, Bashar. I... you good day? It's so great to talk to you again. I spoke with you in June.

**Bashar:**
Oh, all right.

**Jory:**
Uh, my first question is: as a child, there was a book series called the Berenstain Bears. And lately, I've seen some buzz on the internet that now the title of the books is the Beren*stein* Bears. Yes. And everywhere people are looking, even at their old books from their childhood, yeah, and now says the Beren*stein* Bears. But about 95% of the people I've spoken with remember them as Beren*stain* Bears, with an 'a', not an 'e'. Name. And so, so is this a... an example of a parallel reality?

**Bashar:**
Yes.

**Jory:**
Awesome. Okay. That was easy. Yeah. So would you say that the people who grew up with the Beren*stain* Bears have now merged into the parallel Earth where it was always the Beren*stein* Bears?

**Bashar:**
Yes.

**Jory:**
Awesome. And yet you've also maintained the ability to remember the other parallel reality. Difference. I love it. Because you do this all the time. You shift into parallel realities and very often don't remember the differences. Right? Make sense. But in this case, you are using that, as it comes from your childhood, as a marker to be able to start noticing the differences and being able to see more than one parallel reality simultaneously. That's what I hope to know: that you are shifting more consciously.

**Jory:**
Perfect. Thank you. If you can bear it.

**Bashar:**
Okay. My next question. Got a couple in my head here. We make no apologies. Puns come from your world, and we learn them from you. So, and I think we all appreciate them, at least most of us. Um, my next question is... gotta go in the brain. Hold on. I noticed I don't have the memory like I used to, so I got to...

**Bashar:**
Neither do we. Yeah. We have no memory at all. So I'm going to remember know what we need to know when we need to know it.

**Jory:**
Okay. Well, what do I need to know now? Let's see. Um, one of my questions was: what was the Ark of the Covenant, and who gave Moses the Ten Commandments, if they actually occurred?

**Bashar:**
The Ark is a device that was mostly a communication device, but also could be used to channel energy in a variety of ways for a variety of purposes. It was a communication device between those humans and an extraterrestrial society. The Ten Commandments were not originally 10 commandments. They were guidelines that explain the idea of the relationship between you and creation. For example, they have become misinterpreted through the generations in a variety of ways through negative and fear-based beliefs and control issues and all sorts of other reasons for the misinterpretations or the misinformation. But as an example, let us say what you typically refer to as your first commandment: "I am the Lord your God. Thou shalt not have false gods before me." Was originally delivered as the idea of: "I am all that is. Anything you may think is a false god isn't, because I am everything and cannot be false." Quite a difference. You understand?

**Jory:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
So that's the idea of that. Those guidelines were delivered both through the idea of the opus of telepathic instruction, but also the device was delivered from an extraterrestrial society that people on your planet referred to as "angels of God." But they basically were an extraterrestrial society. So when Moses went up and got the tablets and all that, a ship landed it on top of the mountain and delivered what need to be delivered. Thank you. But again, there was much misinterpretation because it's coming from a very high-dimensional level and being translated or stepped down into physical reality. And in that step-down process, there can be automatic distortion and misrepresentation of concepts that come from higher levels if the filters for fear-based beliefs are, shall we say, getting in the way.

**Jory:**
That makes perfect sense. Thank you. Yes. Two quick questions after that. Uh, one is: next year being a year that adds up to nine, yes. Um, cycle of completion. That's why we say that in the fall of 2016, everything starts to change.

**Bashar:**
Yeah. I was going to ask you if you want to give us any more details on that.

**Jory:**
Nope.

**Bashar:**
Okay. And we recently gave you some signs to watch for. Okay. But one thing we would say is: remember that when we tell you these things, it is only a sensing of the energy that exists at the time that we tell you. And sometimes we tell you for the purpose of seeing if you're going to change the energy or not.

**Jory:**
I get that.

**Bashar:**
All right. I'm going to ask a question so that's one of the biggest clues we can possibly give you. Okay. I'm going to ask a question from my son. He was curious if there was ever a time when the dinosaurs and humans were on the Earth together.

**Bashar:**
Yes. But not humans from your planet. Other beings from other worlds did exist on your planet from time to time alongside the dinosaurs. But they were not humans from your world. Okay. And unless, of course, you count the fact that in certain ways dinosaurs do still exist, because many of them have become what you now call birds.

**Jory:**
Right. Got that.

**Bashar:**
So in that sense, the answer is yes. But in the way that you meant it, no. Unless, again, of course, you go by the understanding that everything exists here and now, and therefore, in a parallel reality, dinosaurs exist right now, and so do you.

**Jory:**
I get it.

**Bashar:**
And there are versions of Earth where humans exist alongside dinosaurs. Yes. But not this version that you are creating right now as your mass consensus reality.

**Jory:**
Okay. I got that answer on the way here.

**Bashar:**
Well, there you go. Thank you. Anything else?

**Jory:**
Yes. Um, when I had a dream that I met a boy and a girl, was that me meeting my hybrid children?

**Bashar:**
In this case, yes.

**Jory:**
Okay. And, um, I see hearts everywhere in nature. Is that just a reflection of my higher self?

**Bashar:**
Yes.

**Jory:**
Okay. Thank you so much. Does this help you?

**Jory:**
Absolutely. Thank you. I really much really appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you.

**Bashar:**
At this timing, we will allow you to go and refresh and nourish yourselves, and we will resume this transmission after your midday nourishment.

*[Applause]*

---

#### **Topic: Seeing Spirits**

**Bashar:**
Anyway, welcome back, everyone. Hope you, uh, enjoyed your lunch and our great environment here. We just love this hotel, and we love being in Vegas. So than we... we're going to... we're right now, we're kind of on a pattern. Well, we'll come twice a year in, in, um, in June, the beginning of June, and in the beginning of November. So just keep that in mind. All right. Everyone have a nice break. Welcome back. And goodbye. But it'll say, let us continue the transmission. However you wish, please proceed.

**Asker 11:**
Hi, Bashar. Good day again. Hi. Um, I want to ask you a... another question. Yes. Um, I've been... been seen. Um, I think spirits. Yes. And I'd like to know more about it.

**Bashar:**
All right. Well, as we said, when you start expanding your consciousness, when you start exploring these kinds of things, your senses become more sensitized to things that were formerly invisible to you. You start being able to see different kinds of energy than you could see before. Different beings that may be all around you all the time that you couldn't see before. The spirit world is really close to the physical world. It's just a difference in vibration. Just a difference in frequency of energy. And when your senses begin to expand, you can begin to see into the spirit world, and you can develop this and be able to see and communicate with them just as easily as they are able to see you. Does that make sense?

**Asker 11:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
Now, being the age that you are, many, many, many of the children on planet Earth now are being born and coming through with more of these abilities. They don't have to unlearn them, because you haven't forgotten them. You are being born into and living in a reality that is now more open about these ideas. Many of the adults are exploring these ideas, and so it creates more of an environment and an atmosphere that makes it all right for the children to also retain the ability to have stronger senses, more expanded senses. Does that make sense?

**Asker 11:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
Is this answering your question, or is there something else you would like to discuss about the spirits that you are seeing?

**Asker 11:**
Seeing. Um... I'm thinking that it solves my question.

**Bashar:**
All right. You understand that they are just people, but they're in a different state of being, a non-physical state.

**Asker 11:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
And that all of you, in actual fact, are also already in spirit. You, the greater part of you, is in spirit right now. This part of yourself that you consider your physical self to be is just a small part of the great being that you are. Most of you is in spirit. But you are dreaming that you're not in spirit. And the dream you're having that you're not in spirit is what you call the experience of physical life. But it's just a dream that you're having while you're in spirit. You never actually leave the spirit world. The spirit realm. Does that make sense?

**Asker 11:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
So this is a physical dream. And the more you become aware that this is a dream, the more awake you can become in the dream, and the more you can allow yourself to consciously create the physical life dream that you prefer. Does that make sense?

**Asker 11:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
What excites you in life?

**Asker 11:**
Um, seeing happy faces and happy energy. Seeing happy faces and happy energy.

**Bashar:**
When you look in the mirror, are you one of the faces that's happy?

**Asker 11:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
Oh, all right. It's fun to be happy. Do you know that you never have to be anything but happy? Even when you have challenges in life, you can still be happy. Because challenges are going to allow you to discover new things, new ideas, new perspectives as you grow. So no matter what challenges may come up in your life, you always have the choice to be happy. And when you choose to be happy, when you choose to be excited, then any challenge that may come up will be much easier to deal with, much easier to understand, and much easier to transform. Does that make sense?

**Asker 11:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
Does this help you?

**Asker 11:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
Is there anything else you would like to discuss, or will that suffice?

**Asker 11:**
That is it.

**Bashar:**
Well, then we thank you.

**Asker 11:**
Thank you.

*[Applause]*

---

#### **Topic: Spaceship Probability**

**Bashar:**
Okay. So for those of you whose name was called, one moment. There is a 98% probability that by the time Natasha, you are nearing the age of the channel or your parents, that you will have an opportunity to be on a spaceship.

*[Applause]*

**Bashar:**
We have been given this to give to you, and we will see, through your following of your excitement, how you will get there. But that is what we are given to give to you from friends you have in other places. Do continue. Nir. Okay. There's a spaceship in your future.

---

#### **Topic: Nazca Lines and Orange Globes**

**Asker 12:**
Hello, Bashar. And of you, good day. Thank you for coming back to Las Vegas.

**Bashar:**
Well, I'm not in Las Vegas, but thank you for the sentiment.

**Asker 12:**
Well, I started coming to you in the '90s, yes, when you were coming once a month. So it's great to have you back here.

**Bashar:**
All right. Well, thank you.

**Asker 12:**
I have three questions. The first one is: who created the Nazca lines, and for what purpose?

**Bashar:**
There are different purposes to that. They were created by the indigenous tribe that lived in the area under the guidance of both extraterrestrial beings and also non-physical, higher-dimensional beings. The main purpose is for the instruction of mastering out-of-body experiences. Which would be proven you had been out of body when you could tell from above what the symbols were.

**Asker 12:**
Oh. They're not really landing strips in that sense.

**Bashar:**
They are not really landing strips in that sense. They are symbols that represent different energies that different people may have had affinity for, similar to what you use as your zodiac signs. And when the astral travel was successful, it would be known because they would be able to relate what symbol they had seen from above. That was the main purpose. Does that answer your question?

**Asker 12:**
It does. Thank you. Number two. Question number two. A lot of people around the world have been seeing the orange-red globes. Yes. And no one seems to know what they are. Could we do... could you tell us, please?

**Bashar:**
Was that a third question?

**Asker 12:**
No. That was a sec... right. All right. All right. Again, in many cases, they are projections of a higher-dimensional consciousness penetrating into your reality, who then appear to be those kinds of energy globes. It's not necessarily how they appear in their own reality, but that's how they appear in yours. They are taking stock. They're making observations. They are seeing what's going on. They are learning what their place may be in the transformations taking place that your planet is also involved in. They are participating from different dimensional states. Some of them might represent what you would think of as the past. Some of them might represent what you would think of as the future. Some of them might represent what you would think of as alternate dimensions of reality. But all are coming to a nexus point to observe and participate in a transformation taking place that affects far more than just your world. Does that help you?

**Asker 12:**
Thank you. I've seen them three times.

**Bashar:**
Oh, all right. And they bring great joy.

**Asker 12:**
I love them.

**Bashar:**
Yes. The third question is: I believe it was 2007 in Berkeley, California. I was looking across the water at the Golden Gate Bridge, and there were three globes of gold light. Yeah. From my perspective, about the size of a basketball. Yeah. They were in the shape of a triangle. But I could see no craft. I just saw three. Yes. So what was that, please?

**Bashar:**
Well, similar to what I just said. Some of them will come in triads. Some of them will come in other forms. Other teams. There may be things there connecting them together that you don't see. There may be only portions of them that are penetrating into your reality. But again, they represent either probes or intelligences themselves. And their form, their energy, may simply translate as those spheres in your reality. But spheres of energy is much the way you look in spirit when you relax your need to present yourself as a physical being. So some of this represents actual beings. Some of it represents a technology you have yet to understand that is similar or operates on a similar level to the beings. So some of them are probes. Some of them are gathering information. Some of them are just observing. Some of them are making connections to those who are representative of other aspects of themselves. Because, for the most part, the kinds of encounters that you have with other beings, be they physical or not, usually—not always, but usually—contain what might euphemistically be called another version of you in another reality. So that you're almost always meeting another aspect of your greater being in those encounters. Does that help you?

**Asker 12:**
Thank you. Yeah. I was wondering because the three gold ones were all moved away at the same time in the triangle shape, and the spheres come and go in clumps. So I understand.

**Bashar:**
Yeah. Nevertheless, some of them can be connected in a variety of ways, and many times you cannot necessarily perceive the connection in your reality. But you might perceive some aspect of it in the sense that they seemed to be connected by nothing you could see, but there is something there just beyond the range of your senses or understanding.

**Asker 12:**
I suspected that. Oh, all right. Thank you very much. You are very welcome. I love you greatly.

**Bashar:**
Thank. Our unconditional love to you as well.

---

#### **Topic: Pets' Health**

**Asker 13:**
Hello, Bashar. I do you good day. Um, my question is about my pets. Pets. Pets. I have two.

**Bashar:**
Yes.

**Asker 13:**
And what are they? Uh, dogs.

**Bashar:**
Yes.

**Asker 13:**
And one of them became very ill. All right. And then the next day, the other one had the same symptoms. Yes. And all the tests that were done, everything came back normal. All right. And, and what are the symptoms?

**Asker 13:**
Um, there was blood. A lot of blood coming, um, from, from their rectum.

**Bashar:**
Yes. And all the tests couldn't find anything wrong with them. Are they in an environment of high stress?

**Asker 13:**
I don't think so. My house, I don't think, is very stressful.

**Bashar:**
One moment. Have they been somewhere other than your house recently?

**Asker 13:**
No. I mean, I take him for walks every day. But...

**Bashar:**
One moment. How is their diet?

**Asker 13:**
Um, they're... they're better now. They're eating again. Everything seems to be okay.

**Bashar:**
What are they eating?

**Asker 13:**
Uh, well, before it was just regular dog food. And now, and now I've added rice and... keen? More?

**Bashar:**
Did you feel that made a difference?

**Asker 13:**
I think so.

**Bashar:**
Yeah. Are they capable of eating raw food?

**Asker 13:**
Yes. They do like raw food.

**Bashar:**
Can you feed more of that to them?

**Asker 13:**
I can.

**Bashar:**
Yeah. Will you?

**Asker 13:**
Yes. If that's... if that'll help.

**Bashar:**
Yeah. It may. Okay. Start with that and see what happens. At the same time, do you play an instrument or sing?

**Asker 13:**
No. But I always have music in the house. Of what type? Usually like Reiki music. Very soothing.

**Bashar:**
All right. Do they hear it?

**Asker 13:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
All right. One moment. One moment. All right. We are being told this is as far as we can take this. But you will have help from another source. But start with the idea of changing their diet to something more raw, so they can be getting more nutrients in their diet. Okay. Yes. Uh-huh. And check to make sure there is nothing in your immediate environment or along the walks that you take with them that they might accidentally be picking up. Things such as pesticides and so forth.

**Asker 13:**
Okay. You understand?

**Asker 13:**
Yes. Just double-check to make sure you know where it is they are sniffing around.

**Bashar:**
Okay. All right. Uh-huh. All right. Now I have one more question regarding the same one. One of the dogs has a very bad skin condition.

**Bashar:**
This I cannot help you with now.

**Asker 13:**
Okay.

**Bashar:**
You will have help from another source to continue this conversation. Allow yourself to ask for that assistance in your dream time. When you go to sleep, information will be downloaded to you as to what to do.

**Asker 13:**
Oh. Thank you very much.

*[Applause]*

---

#### **Topic: Disappearing Sense of Self**

**Asker 14:**
Hi, Bashar. Thanks for taking my... my, uh, I want to say call, but it's not my call. Oh, all right. Good day to you. Good day to you. Um, I don't have so much of a question as I just want your perspective on a process that I've been going through. That I feel like my sense of self has been less, and I'm sort of disappearing. Disappearing. Um, where you going, for lack of a better way of saying this? All right. Um, and I don't know where to start with this, but I feel like maybe a good place to start is when I was a kid. Um, I grew up in northern Michigan on a farm, and there's a lot of stars. Yes. And I remember, um, looking into the stars and always feeling that two things. Number one, that a lot of comfort. And number two, that they weren't really out there. And, and this sense of, um, that same sense has been with me my whole life. And I feel like it's... it's accelerating into different things now.

**Bashar:**
All right. Is there some other location other than where you are now that you would rather be on the planet? Are you attracted to be somewhere that you're not?

**Asker 14:**
Not specifically.

**Bashar:**
What do you mean by that?

**Asker 14:**
I've definitely thought about it quite a bit. But such as what locations? Santa Fe, New Mexico.

**Bashar:**
Why that?

**Asker 14:**
I used to live in Albuquerque and used to really enjoy going to Santa Fe.

**Bashar:**
And so you're not there because why?

**Asker 14:**
Because I have a house that is... I'm way upside down in... upside down in... yes. As far as you... H. The wrong builders? What's that?

**Bashar:**
I'm sorry. You hired the wrong builders, and they built your house upside down?

**Asker 14:**
Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:**
So do you really wish to be in Santa Fe? Is that really more representative of your excitement? Because do remember that when we talk about excitement as a whole idea, all the components within it should also be aligned: what it is that excites you, where it excites you, with whom it excites you, how it excites you, so on and so forth. Is it more exciting for you to imagine yourself in Santa Fe than where you are?

**Asker 14:**
I think yeah. I live here, and there's things I like about Vegas, but in general, it's been pretty difficult.

**Bashar:**
All right. 15 years. Yeah. And so you're saying that your upside-down house is keeping you from moving to Santa Fe, or at least taking some action in the direction of doing so? Is that what you were saying?

**Asker 14:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
And how is it preventing you from doing this?

**Asker 14:**
Um, I just simply don't know the steps to take to... to get out from underneath it, and haven't actively pursued those, I guess.

**Bashar:**
Well, more than the idea of figuring out the steps to get out, as you say, from underneath it, what about the steps you could be taking to move in the direction of your excitement, and trusting that your excitement will bring you what you need to get out from underneath anything that is not representative of your excitement? What about that approach?

**Asker 14:**
I completely understand that.

**Bashar:**
Will you do that and act on that and see what happens?

**Asker 14:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
All right. Yes. Then when you move in the direction of your excitement, it will always bring you—if you're open to it, and if you're willing to act on it—it will always bring you the information or opportunity you need to let go of something that is not representative of your excitement. But you won't see that opportunity until you act in the direction of your highest excitement. Because you cannot even have the capability of imagining, let alone perceiving, how you could get out from under it until you're already moving in the direction of your excitement. Because you're not the vibration of your excitement, which is the vibration you need to be to see the solution or to attract the solution. So only by moving forward will you understand how to let go of the past.

**Asker 14:**
I have trouble trusting that. What I mean... it's... it's been a theme that's come up for years. That I want to go in a certain direction. You have trouble trusting.

**Asker 14:**
Trusting that it would work.

**Bashar:**
Well, then you don't understand the mechanism. That's all.

**Asker 14:**
Yes. Why not?

**Bashar:**
It has already worked. It's working all the time. It's just that it's working against the grain for you instead of with it. If it's willing to work against the grain, why wouldn't it work with the grain? It's just a machine, in a sense. It's just a reflective mirror. That's like saying you're going to stand in front of a mirror and you're not going to get a reflection. Why wouldn't you? That's just how it works. It's just the physics of it. Mhm. You need to render it down to an understanding that's that basic. You're adding too many complications and belief systems that make it seem like a difficult concept. And that's why it seems like it can't work, and you can't trust it. Because you don't understand that it's already working. It's just working in a direction that's out of alignment with who you prefer to be. That's all. But it's working just fine. Okay. So can you bring yourself to understand the basic concept of this mechanism, the basic physics of it?

**Asker 14:**
I feel like I do. And I have. But it's... well, obviously not.

**Bashar:**
Well, probably right. I am very right, as witnessed by your conversation.

**Asker 14:**
Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:**
So, so what prevents you from letting it be simple? What prevents you really from trusting that it works for you just like it works for everyone else?

**Asker 14:**
I don't know.

**Bashar:**
Sure you do.

**Asker 14:**
None of you can get away with that answer.

**Bashar:**
Yeah. I don't know. Sure you do.

**Asker 14:**
I mean, yes. What are you buying into? That's the answer. What are you buying into? It's... it's just a belief in myself enough that... that what I really want to do is a certain thing.

**Bashar:**
Yes. That. And what prevents you from believing in yourself?

**Asker 14:**
That I'm good at something else. And that, but what I really want to do involves what I do, but it's... it's different slightly. And it's... but if it is representative of your excitement, wouldn't that, by definition, mean that you are capable of doing some version of it that works for you?

**Asker 14:**
Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:**
Or at the very least, if it's representative of your excitement, don't you believe that even if that thing doesn't come to fruition, it's going to lead you to something that will? That will be, again, what is correct for you?

**Asker 14:**
Yes. And that the times that I have followed this and moved in the direction, it's gone in ways that I didn't expect.

**Bashar:**
Exactly. So the real question now is—and this is a common question for many people on your planet, because in many cases, many of you have the experience that this works for you perfectly in one area of your life, but mysteriously doesn't seem to work in another area of your life—so the basic question that you have wonderfully brought to everyone's attention today is: what's the difference between those areas in your definition? Why are you making this different than that? If this works fine, what is it about this area of your life that you're defining that makes it seem so different that it can't work the same way? That's the question you need to investigate within yourself to discover the belief within about that. And the fact that this won't leave me alone... that almost my whole life it's been the same thing.

**Bashar:**
That no higher mind will never leave you alone. Yeah. And if you don't pay attention to it sooner, you will pay attention to it later. Because it will do whatever it takes to get your attention. Because this is what you want it to do. This is what you've asked it to do. This is why you had the life that you chose. Because when you pay attention to the message, when the messenger knocks on the door—"Yes? Can I help you? I have a message for you."—"Oh, thank you very much."—then the messenger can deliver the message and go on its way. But if you ignore the knocking, then the knocking gets loud and louder and louder and louder. And pretty soon it's a slap in the face. And pretty soon it's a brick in the head. And pretty soon, who knows what you'll do to get your attention to finally understand. So don't go that far. Yeah. You understand? Because you will get your attention one way or another. Even if it kills you.

**Asker 14:**
Yes. Yeah. Yes. Because if that's what it takes, if that's what you're stubborn enough to say it takes, that's what will happen.

**Asker 14:**
And I feel like, you know, I teach, and I tell people the same thing all the time. I know. I... and it's like, I know it's... it's... I'm really just trying to tell myself that.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Yeah. Absolutely. It doesn't mean you can't share the ideas with others. But generally speaking, anything that is something you gravitate to to share with others, there is usually something in there that is for you too.

**Asker 14:**
Okay. So thank you. Yes. Does this help?

**Asker 14:**
Very much. Yes. Then, Bashar, thank you very much.

*[Applause]*

---

#### **Topic: Shared Reality and Channeling Entities**

**Asker 15:**
Much. Any... you good day? Um, I have a couple different questions for you.

**Bashar:**
Oh, all right. Rather than having a couple of the same question from different areas.

**Asker 15:**
Yeah. Oh, all right. Uh, earlier someone had asked a question about physics and technology. Wanted to go a little bit deeper, uh, regarding that. Yes. I feel that I have a gift, and one of my highest excitements is seeing the clarity and simplicity in connecting quantum mechanics to, like you were saying earlier, the macroscopic level as human beings. Yes. So in the development of that, uh, you've also mentioned that classical physics is sort of a hindrance that's preventing our society developing, um, into these other quantum mechanics and principles that... well, I never said it was a hindrance.

**Asker 15:**
Well, we... the construct of our society hasn't yet allowed us to be open to the idea.

**Asker 15:**
Yes. Of that. And, um, I just wanted to know if you could maybe clarify, in order to advance our understanding of quantum mechanics and physics as it relates to the macroscopic level, do we need to find additional ways of measuring things? Such as not so much...

**Bashar:**
You just need to understand the difference between quantum coherence and quantum decoherence. That's it. Because quantum coherence exists on a quantum level. But when there are so many molecules that they jostle each other and create chaos and decoherence, it's that decoherence that actually creates your classical physics level. Okay? But if you can impose coherence on something macroscopic, you will actually render it back into a quantum behavior. Okay? This is how our ships work. This is how they travel from star to star in the blink of an eye. We impose a field on a macroscopic ship that is representative, in general, typically, of quantum decoherence. All the different chaos of all the different molecules is creating such a jumble that the decoherence creates what you understand to be your classical physics, your physical reality. But the idea is that by imposing a field upon it of quantum coherence, it becomes literally like one giant quantum particle. And thus can behave as quantum particles do. It can be both a particle and a wave. It can tunnel. It can do all sorts of things that quantum particles do. And by imposing that on it, then it can behave very differently than things do in the macroscopic world.

**Asker 15:**
Yes. Yeah. With very clear to me. All right. Um, the next thing is, at a question about your thing is, at a question about your civilization and you guys as beings. Yes. Uh, what is your... I guess, as we would perceive it, visible spectrum? As we can only, you know, some people would see energies, and some people can see just the visible color spectrum. Can you see X-rays, microwaves?

**Bashar:**
Oh, yes. If we wish to, we can. Okay? We don't always, but if we wish to, we can. And even beyond that.

**Asker 15:**
Okay. And then the other thing is: are you guys subject, or do you possess an autonomic nervous system, and are you subject to the natural body or brain drugs that we experience, such as serotonin, dopamine, oxytocin?

**Bashar:**
That doesn't affect us so much anymore, because we are in our evolutionary state, what you would call quasi-physical. Okay? Therefore, we are deriving transformational energies directly from the electromagnetic field and the gravitic field, rather than the idea of what you would consider to be chemical fields.

**Asker 15:**
Okay. Um, one other thing. Actually, two other things, I guess. Oh, all right. Uh, regarding relationships within your civilization. Yes. Do you guys have what we call pair bonding?

**Bashar:**
Or you... uh, it can happen, but it's not like we have a ritual that says it must. So we simply allow synchronicity to demonstrate what is appropriate for any given individuals at any given moment. Our entire civilization runs on synchronicity. We are exactly where we need to be, when we need to be there, with whom we need to be, in whatever relationship we need to be. And we know this. Therefore, we can take advantage of knowing that and treat the relationship for what it is, rather than assuming it to be something it is not. Thus, whatever happens is what naturally happens as it unfolds. Whether there is bonding for a while and then not, or any other variation of this idea, we really don't know what the relationship is until the end of the life. Okay? Make sense?

**Asker 15:**
Yes. Absolutely. The other thing, going a little bit back to physics, is our perception of the passage of time. This isn't a time travel question per se, but we perceive it as the arrow of time. It's always going forward towards something. Are you guys able to experience that in either direction?

**Bashar:**
Well, yes. And actually, sometimes so do you. It's called déjà vu. Okay? Because you feel like you know what's about to happen. Forward arrow. Because you feel like it already has. Backward arrow. Okay. Simultaneously. But yes, we can experience it way beyond that.

**Asker 15:**
Okay. Um, one other question. I don't know if you can disclose this or not, but I feel as though I will be a big catalyst, or someone who is instrumental in bridging this gap between letting go of the, you know, uh, classical physics and embracing this furthering of technology. Will I... all right. Well, that may be so, if you continue to follow your excitement. You'll find out. Will I work with your civilization or other civilizations somehow?

**Bashar:**
You may have a high degree of probability of working with other civilizations on this. It is difficult to say at this particular point in your time frame whether or not it would be specifically with us or with someone else.

**Asker 15:**
Okay. Thank you. Thank you.

*[Applause]*

---

#### **Topic: Space Travel and Telepathy**

**Asker 16:**
Hello, B. And are you good day?

**Bashar:**
Um, when, or if, when will we, um, have the technology to build our own ships to go to space?

**Bashar:**
You mean aside from the ships you already have?

**Asker 16:**
Yes. Like exploration ships, so we can colonize and different...

**Bashar:**
Well, again, you will find that the highest probability of open contact, as we have said, will be between 2025 and 2033. And after 2033, there will be an acceleration of interaction with other civilizations to the point that, again, by 2050 at the latest, you will have some basic form of ships that are similar to what you call UFOs and can go exploring and beyond that as well. Beyond that year, of course.

**Asker 16:**
Okay. Is it possible that other civilizations will come before that to give us an idea?

**Bashar:**
I just told you. Between 2025 and 2033 will be the beginnings of open contact and the sharing of information and knowledge that will lead to your ability to join the stellar society. And by 2050, you will have your own ships. You will be a member of the Interstellar Alliance, at least at the beginning of it. And you'll be able to go exploring. That's what I just said.

**Asker 16:**
Okay. Sorry. Does that help?

**Asker 16:**
Yes. Um, the other thing is: is it possible... well, I know it is, but is it possible... well, I know it is, but are you asking is it probable?

**Bashar:**
Okay. Probable. Because anything is possible, but it may not always be probable or relevant.

**Asker 16:**
Okay. Um, will humans from Earth be able to go, um, talk to each other from mind to mind?

**Bashar:**
Or yes. When you finally fall in love with each other. Because that's what telepathy is. Remember, you're not reading each other's minds. You're on the same wavelength, and you're having the same thoughts at the same time. That's what telepathy is. That's why when you see people who are in love with each other, who have a close bond with each other, they finish each other's sentences. They know what each other is thinking. It's not because they're reading each other's minds. It's because each mind is having the same thoughts because they're on the same frequency.

**Asker 16:**
Yes. And, um, can we connect to computers on mind to a computer?

**Bashar:**
Yes. You can. Just as we do with our ships. Because our ships are sentient and actually a physical representation of our higher minds. And the pilots of the ships are keyed specifically to the ship, and vice versa. So no one else but the pilot can fly that ship, because the ship is the representation of the pilot's higher mind and no one else's.

**Asker 16:**
Well, thank you.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Well, that's all. In fact, as we have said, when you finally understand how to construct so-called computers that are sentient, or what you call artificially intelligent—which is kind of a misnomer—you will actually find out that you are conversing with your own higher minds.

---

#### **Topic: Integrity and Agreements**

**Asker 17:**
Hey, Bashar. And are you good day? I want to talk to you about integrity.

**Bashar:**
You go right ahead.

**Asker 17:**
I notice in my life that I sometimes make agreements with other people. Yeah. Usually around, like, um, going to the same event or doing the same thing or planning something with somebody. Yes. And then, by the time it gets there, or just somewhere along the road, yes, it's no longer representative of my highest excitement. All right. And so, how to use integrity and work that way? Is that your question?

**Bashar:**
Yes. Do you let everyone know that might happen? That that's the person you are?

**Asker 17:**
No.

**Bashar:**
Then there you go. You're out of integrity. All you have to do is say, "Well, you know, I'm excited about doing this right now. And if you're okay with it, I may actually find that something else excites me along the way, and I may not show up. And if you're okay with that, then we're okay. But if you're not, then I will attract people who may be okay with that."

**Asker 17:**
Okay. So will they naturally attract? It's all about what you communicate.

**Bashar:**
Okay. Well, I naturally attract people who are okay with that, because I have done that in the past. And I feel like, on the receiving end, people tend to not trust me as much if I do that.

**Bashar:**
No. It's not about them not trusting you. It's about them trusting that what you've told them is true: that you may not show up. Okay? So if they have made a decision that they would prefer to be with people who will, then obviously it's not so much that they don't trust you. It's just that they're telling you, "We prefer to interact with people who, when they say they will, will show up." Will show up. One or the other is not right or wrong. It's just a matter of clarity of explaining to people that that's who you really are.

At the same time, you may also, just to be sure, want to investigate your own beliefs to make sure that that pattern isn't happening because of the fact that you have negative beliefs that are creating that behavior when it doesn't necessarily have to happen. Yeah. But as long as you are clear within yourself and discerning within yourself and honest within yourself that the idea of simply following your excitement will make it, from time to time, that you may change your mind about where you wish to be, and people know that, then they can work with that one way or the other.

The idea, however, also to take it a step further, is to understand that if you are really staying within your excitement, it will be easier. When you're truly in that vibration, to know what things you actually will show up for. There won't be so much confusion or change about that, because you'll be making a decision from within the pure definition of your excitement. And you know that it will be a high probability that you will actually manifest what it is you said you would manifest, because the knowledge is coming from that state of being, as opposed to being uncertain about it.

**Asker 17:**
Got it.

**Bashar:**
Make sense?

**Asker 17:**
Yeah. It does.

**Bashar:**
So it's a self-correcting system. If you're actually coming from your excitement, it will allow you to be where you truly need to be, when you need to be there. It's not even that you necessarily have to think about it. You won't be diverted if it's important for you to be there, because you recognize that it is actually a representation of your excitement to do so. Because, again, remember, it's the organizing principle.

**Asker 17:**
Yeah.

**Bashar:**
Yes. So just make sure you're not just flotsam and jetsam, floating around because of uncertainty. Allow yourself to know that it may straighten itself out when you are truly centered and making decisions from within the state of being that is your excitement. And again, there may still be some fluctuation. And as long as you communicate that with people, and they know who they're dealing with, then that's fine. Because then it's their choice to decide whether they want to have a relationship with someone who does that or not.

**Asker 17:**
Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:**
Because remember, most of the difficulties in your relationships doesn't come from what is said. It comes from what's *not* said.

**Asker 17:**
Yes. Yeah.

**Bashar:**
All right. So be clear about who you are. Even if you will change, be clear about who you are right now. Let people know that. Then they can decide, yes, yes, whether or not to invite you. Great. And sometimes you will find they don't necessarily even have to invite you. Because if you actually are acting from your excitement, and it is relevant for you to be where they are, you'll just show up anyway without even knowing they were going to be there. That's what I mean when I saying our civilization operates on pure synchronicity. We don't ever have to ask anyone to be anywhere. We just know that where we need to be, all the people that also need to be there will be there. And that's it. That's how it works. Does that help?

**Asker 17:**
Very much. Thank you.

**Bashar:**
All right. Thank you. Thanks.

*[Applause]*

---

#### **Topic: Las Vegas and Wisdom Teeth**

**Asker 18:**
A good day. Hello, Bashar. Hi. I have two questions for you today.

**Bashar:**
Oh, question. Yeah.

**Asker 18:**
So the first one's going to be, um, as a Las Vegas native, yes, all in my heart, I just want to know: what's so special about Vegas? What's so special about it?

**Bashar:**
Yeah. Well, obviously it's a great focal point for the idea of randomness locking into different realities and seeing what comes up.

**Asker 18:**
Okay. Right. Okay. Yes. The spin of the wheel. Mhm. That there is no absolute future. That it can change in an instant. It's dynamic. It's challenging.

**Bashar:**
Yes. It reveals the deep core of your being and forces you to deal with it.

**Asker 18:**
Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. There you go. Yes, sir. It's a very strong energy to be in. A very bold energy.

**Bashar:**
Yes. And it's our home.

**Asker 18:**
Yes. And so I feel, um, I feel very honored and blessed to be here.

**Bashar:**
Oh, all right. Well, thank you for adding your energy to it.

**Asker 18:**
Yes. Thank you. Thank you for coming. And well, I'm actually above Sedona, but you're welcome. Same. Same.

**Bashar:**
Um, and then my other question is: I want to know what the purpose of wisdom teeth are.

**Bashar:**
Probably to chew your food wisely. It's different for different people. Okay? Different things symbolize different things in different people. But obviously, since your people decided to call them wisdom teeth, there's some association to the idea of knowing. Exactly. Well, I'll just put it this way: don't bite off more than you can chew. That's wisdom.

**Asker 18:**
Wow. Yeah. Yeah. All right. That was perfect. Thank you. Awesome. Thank you. You're welcome.

---

#### **Topic: The Oversoul and Dark Night of the Soul**

**Asker 19:**
Thank you all. Hello, Bashar. How of you? Good day. I have a question about the oversoul.

**Bashar:**
Yes.

**Asker 19:**
It's this energy that houses different, um, entities on different planes and planets.

**Bashar:**
Well, in a sense, yes. The oversoul is, in concept, combination of a multitude of souls in various experiences.

**Asker 19:**
Yeah. So, for example, we might not be aware of them, but they could be aware of our existence.

**Bashar:**
Absolutely. They are.

**Asker 19:**
Yes. And what is a way for us to communicate with them more consciously?

**Bashar:**
Well, again, the basics: acting on your excitement will expand your senses and allow you to tap into what you need to tap into from whatever source you need it. Whether you know it's coming from the oversoul or not is actually relatively irrelevant. But the idea is, you can know that you're always receiving communion from the oversoul and with the oversoul for whatever information you need that will help guide you. Because through the oversoul comes down through the soul and through the higher mind into the physical mind.

**Asker 19:**
Yes. Sure. But how can we communicate to these different beings that are essentially part of our soul family?

**Bashar:**
All right. Well, again, I'm saying you are communicating with them. You don't always have to be aware that you are, because sometimes being aware of it will actually stop the process of the information you're receiving from them. But if you act on your highest excitement without any expectation or insistence on the outcome, and you need to know—specifically need to consciously know—that you're interacting with another aspect of your oversoul, you will. It'll be brought to your attention. But more often than not, the information that comes through those channels comes through unobtrusively, so as not to stop the process of you using the information in your life.

**Asker 19:**
Okay. Understand. And, um, I understand the importance of following your excitement. But what about, um, what's the purpose of experiences like the Dark Night of the Soul and this limbo state where you don't feel a relationship to...

**Bashar:**
Well, there can be many, many different purposes, depending upon how many people are experiencing it. But in general, one of the ideas is: many people on your planet, because of the belief systems that they've bought into, sometimes attract to themselves the idea of great negativity, because it clarifies for them in no uncertain terms the difference between what they don't prefer and what they do prefer. And if that's the only thing that your belief system will allow you to become clear about, then that's the way people will do it. So you have to experience this negativity. I didn't say you *have* to. Okay. I just said that that's what many people do, because they are confused, because of their belief systems, as to how to experience joy. So sometimes they will give themselves the experience of darkness, because in great darkness, it's actually easier to see any light at all. It's like the idea and the symbol of the candle in the middle of a dark void. It's very easy to see the tiny little candle because there's no other light around it. So it makes it easier to find the light when you surround yourself sometimes with darkness. That's just a methodology that some people use.

**Asker 19:**
So what are ways to get out of that state?

**Bashar:**
Go to the light. Now that you found it in the darkness, go to the light. Be aligned with that. Act in ways that allow you to express who you truly are. Be in alignment with your preferred vibration by acting on your highest joy. And knowing that anything that needs to be revealed to you that's out of alignment will be, so that you can identify it and let it go.

**Asker 19:**
I see.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Remember your yin-yang symbol shows you that always, always, in the darkness, there is always a spot of light. And even in the light, there is always the opportunity to experience the darkness. It can go both ways. It's up to you to choose what you prefer. And just keep choosing that. You have to validate the darkness, not make it something more than the light. But when everything is equal, then you can choose what you prefer without invalidating what you don't prefer.

**Asker 19:**
Okay. Yes. Um, what is your relationship to the Earth right now? From... from the ship that you're at?

**Bashar:**
You mean, how high above the planet am I?

**Asker 19:**
Yes.

**Bashar:**
About 1,300 of your miles. Give or take.

**Asker 19:**
All right. That's not bad. Do you exist in, um, in a... re... how should I say this? Is the ship visible for not to you?

**Bashar:**
No. Not yet. It can be sometimes, but generally not to you. Not yet.

**Asker 19:**
And I mean "you" meaning all of you, not just you personally.

**Bashar:**
Okay. All right. I have this idea that, um, I was in Sedona this summer, and I experienced something called aura photography. Yes. Where you have your palm measured, and, uh, kind of measures the energetical field around you and colors.

**Bashar:**
Yes. We understand the concept.

**Asker 19:**
So my idea was to create a room that's a multi-sensory experience room, where you get your energy measured. How exciting.

**Bashar:**
Yes.

**Asker 19:**
So it would, um, work in the way of re-transferring that energy through aromatherapy and music therapy and 3D projection mapping.

**Bashar:**
All wonderful permission slips.

**Asker 19:**
When will you do this? That's my question. When will be a good time to do it?

**Bashar:**
So people... people open now would be a good time to do it. What's stopping you from doing it now?

**Asker 19:**
I'm not sure if people are open to this concept yet.

**Bashar:**
I beg your pardon?

**Asker 19:**
Yeah. Have you forgotten the one-sided coin concept?

**Bashar:**
I don't know that.

**Asker 19:**
Com... oh, let me illuminate you. Tell me: if you have a gift to give that you're excited to give, that tells you there must be some someone waiting to receive it, or you wouldn't be excited about it. It's like saying there can be a one-sided coin. I have the head, but there's no tail. Not possible. If you have the head, there is a tail. If you have a gift, there is someone waiting to receive it, or you wouldn't be excited about giving that thing. There is no pointless creation. Do you understand? Your excitement is exactly who you are. And if you're saying there's no one in your reality waiting to receive what you have to give, you're saying you're pointless. And that doesn't exist. Does that make more sense?

**Asker 19:**
Absolutely.

**Bashar:**
So now is a good time.

**Asker 19:**
Sounds good. All right. Thank you. Thank you.

*[Applause]*

---

#### **Topic: Music, Past Lives, and Patience**

**Bashar:**
Too. We have about 40 minutes left. And for questions until what time on your clock? Four o'. All right. And so you wish to pick five more. All right. So just raise your hand. An... A... N... I... E. She here. A... N... I... E. Okay. There will be a class following this transmission in penmanship. Not penmanship. Not really. I know people might take you literally. Um, Diane. Click. Joey Weissman. Oh, I think that's Emma. Again, only one time. Emma. But obviously, that was a nice synchronicity. And then Eric Ramos. There you go. Okay. Then we'll have a question from our Ustream listeners. Yeah.

**Ustream Listener:**
Yes. Hey, Bashar. I... you good day? I really excited to be here.

**Bashar:**
All right. And it's great to meet you.

**Ustream Listener:**
You as well. And, uh, thanks for all the... the guidance you've given me over the past, uh, 3 years.

**Bashar:**
Thank you for applying it in your life.

**Ustream Listener:**
Um, all right. So I've been making music for, like, 3 years. All right. And it's been, like, I've had a really good time. Um, it's revealed a lot of things about myself to me. Okay. Um, some that I wish to change, some that I'm happy with. Right now, all right. So, um, it hasn't yet been able to support me financially.

**Bashar:**
That's all right. Um, and it doesn't necessarily... again, remember, have to be financial. Yeah. And like, whatever way it comes, abundance, once again, is the ability to do what you need to do when you need to do it. That's it. Okay? That's the definition of abundance.

**Ustream Listener:**
All right. So, um, like, the threshold of believability we speak about sometimes, like, how long will I take to actually, um, be the person that I envision myself to be? And I think that's, like, right now, down to, like, 6 months. All right. And, um, so I want, like, what do you think? Like, is it kind of what I think is irrelevant?

**Bashar:**
What you believe is the only relevant thing. But is it, like, accurate? What I think is irrelevant. All right. Because it might be accurate right now, and the next second it might not be. It's up to you to keep choosing the idea of how relevant that is for you. Okay? Because you may change your mind tomorrow.

**Ustream Listener:**
Okay. All right. So about past lives. Um, can you give me some information about, like, what I've done in my past life?

**Bashar:**
It's not you. Remember, everything is simultaneous. Yeah. So, like, a parallel version of me.

**Ustream Listener:**
Yes. Okay. So, like, um, why I might be inspired to write about it.

**Bashar:**
Well, then be inspired to write about it. If you feel inspired to write about it, what comes to you? What's the first thing that pops into your head when you feel inspired to write about it? That's the way to work it. Okay? Not say, "Well, what is it?" and then I might get inspired about it. Be inspired, and the information will pop into your head if it needs to.

**Ustream Listener:**
All right. Cool. Yes. Okay. So are you inspired to do that?

**Ustream Listener:**
Yeah.

**Bashar:**
Are you excited about doing that?

**Ustream Listener:**
Yeah.

**Bashar:**
What just popped into your head? Just do. Write about what?

**Ustream Listener:**
Um, what life? What era? About Atlantis.

**Bashar:**
All right. Thank you. You can start there.

**Ustream Listener:**
Okay. So any information give me about that? Or no?

**Bashar:**
Not going to write it for you.

**Ustream Listener:**
All right. Cool. Um, despite the fact that we are quasi-physical, we do not function as a ghostwriter.

**Bashar:**
All right. Okay. And, um, so, like, 2 years ago, I watched this video of you where you said that 11:11 will be where I move into my new house. Yeah. So was that, like, for me? Or it wasn't relevant to me?

**Bashar:**
If you believe it's for you, it's for you. Because, again, like anything, it's a permission slip. And if you're attracted to it, it will work for you. If you're not attracted to it, it won't.

**Ustream Listener:**
Okay. And do you see it, like, going there soon? Like, do you think I'm a...

**Bashar:**
Soothsayer? Sorry. All right. We are helping to explain how these things work so you can use the tools for yourself, rather than coming to ask us or anyone else to simply tell you what is going to happen. Which, very often, by being told what is going to happen, will make it not happen. Yeah. Because now you have new information, and you've changed the outcome of the prediction. Okay. So you get to decide what's true for you. Just keep moving in the direction of your excitement. Let yourself be inspired and see what comes up. And you will know what the timing is. You don't need to be impatient. It will happen exactly when it needs to.

Remember, the only reason that any of you become impatient is because you think you need patience. You don't. If you're doing what you love to do and you're living in the moment, you don't need patience, because you're simply having too much fun to care what happens next. And therefore, if you don't need patience, you will never become impatient. Okay? It's that simple. So have fun. Be creative. Yeah. Lighten up. Remember, again, enlightenment: the first step is to lighten up on yourself.

**Ustream Listener:**
No. Yes. Makes sense. Does this help?

**Ustream Listener:**
Yeah. Just, uh, one more question.

**Bashar:**
Yes.

**Ustream Listener:**
Just... yes. I lost it.

**Bashar:**
Oh, well, maybe that's for the best.

**Ustream Listener:**
All right. Cool. Thank you. Thank you so much.

**Bashar:**
Thanks. Sometimes, when you actually allow yourself to come fully into the moment, you will lose questions that are irrelevant for the now.

---

#### **Topic: Human History and DNA**

**Asker 20:**
Hello. But and to you, good day.

**Bashar:**
Well, my question is an ongoing question about a book I want to write. An ongoing question. And it's an ongoing history of the human race. Yeah. And we spoke about it briefly, and it was, um, an interesting response that all of our history is not here. Correct. And it's one of the gifts you will be given when open contact occurs. You will be reminded of what the real history of your world actually is. And all the missing gaps, or at least most of them, will be filled.

**Asker 20:**
Well, then, if I'm going to write this book, I'm going to live to be 105.

**Bashar:**
Maybe. Okay. That's not so far-fetched anymore on your planet, is it?

**Asker 20:**
It is not.

**Bashar:**
All right. I like it. All right. Um, but that doesn't mean you can't start writing now if you're excited to do so.

**Asker 20:**
And I am.

**Bashar:**
All right. There was another thing that I hope it's not too personal, and you can say if it was.

**Asker 20:**
Oh, all right.

**Bashar:**
Okay. We were discussing, and, and you stopped what we were discussing because there was a synchronicity between you and April when I brought up the DNA work that I'm doing. Yeah. And I find some interest in the DNA work that I do everywhere. Yes. And I was going to incorporate, incorporate that into my book.

**Asker 20:**
Go ahead. I will. Thank you. I was wondering if you could give me any pointer on that. The, of different, um, cultures around the world that would assist me in...

**Bashar:**
IDE is that many of the markers that were turned off in the Anunnaki hybridization that created Homo Sapien are now being turned on in your DNA. This is why you're experiencing expansions of consciousness, becoming more sensitive to formerly invisible energies, becoming more what you call telepathic and psychic. Even the desire to explore spirituality is the result of certain genetic markers being turned on that have been turned off for thousands upon thousands of years. So you are becoming more like the Anunnaki now. And therefore, it is important for you to maintain the vibrational state of being that you prefer, so that you will not necessarily walk down exactly the same path, but will be your own version of that idea in a positive and constructive way.

**Asker 20:**
Awesome. Does that help?

**Asker 20:**
It does.

---

#### **Topic: Estranged Husband and Gypsy Lifestyle**

**Asker 20:**
All right. Another question. Yes. Um, I have an estranged husband.

**Bashar:**
Your husband is strange.

**Asker 20:**
He is strange. And so am I. And I love it.

**Bashar:**
Oh, all right.

**Asker 20:**
He chose to have a form of a stroke a few months ago. Yeah. And he's still alive and with us and doing wonderful, except he doesn't have any idea who I am or anyone else that may be.

**Bashar:**
A blessing. Yeah. It is. He loves it. He's got peace now.

**Asker 20:**
Yes. Okay.

**Bashar:**
Sometimes people will create peace in their lives in the most radical ways, because they can't imagine or don't have a belief system that will allow them to do it any other way. That's going back to what I told you about the idea of, "You'll get the message somehow."

**Asker 20:**
I... I... I resonated to that. He did get it. Yep. Yeah. All right. But it's... it's depleasurable for him.

**Bashar:**
Okay. And sometimes decisions are made, and when those decisions are made, the physical consequences may need to play out, because, again, they don't have a belief system that says anything else can occur.

**Asker 20:**
And doing my little dance of the Saki and the Soma, I find myself sort of flying through, like, a gypsy all around the world.

**Bashar:**
Yeah. And sounds exciting.

**Asker 20:**
It's really wonderfully exciting. But to some people, like my little 13-year-old grandson, who sometimes would like to resonate and stay in the same school with the same students for a while...

**Bashar:**
Oh, all right. Well, that can happen too.

**Asker 20:**
Yes. And, uh, you've just never given me even a sliver of a hint on whether that might be, you know, this wonderful place. And I have houses all over the place now. I wondered if you might give me a sliver of a hint. A sliver of a hint of what... what would be like in both of our highest... uh, get a place. Where are you most attracted to?

**Bashar:**
As we go back to the idea of explaining, as we did in the beginning of this transmission, there is usually something that is at least slightly more exciting than any other option. And if, again, it seems as if the excitement is absolutely dead equal, then it doesn't matter which one you choose. Because if you choose the one that's not the path of least resistance, it will show you and turn you around to the other path. So the only thing you need to do is determine if something has a little bit more excitement than anything else. Or, even if it doesn't, just make a decision so that you can move forward and let the automatic device show you whether or not that is the path or not. It's all you have to do.

**Asker 20:**
I got it. It's very simple. So does one choice stand out even a little bit more than any other choice? Is more exciting than any other choice, even just by a margin?

**Asker 20:**
Not really.

**Bashar:**
Oh, come on. *[Laughter]*

**Asker 20:**
Well, I have a house in Oregon. I have a house in Texas. You know, I think I enjoy being in Oregon a little more than I enjoy being in Texas.

**Bashar:**
Why?

**Asker 20:**
Because, um, I feel left alone.

**Bashar:**
You feel left alone from some aspects that I don't like being around.

**Asker 20:**
All right. Okay. But when I stay in Oregon for a while, and then I get kind of tired of Oregon. So I haven't found the... you get tired of Oregon, or you get tired of yourself in Oregon?

**Asker 20:**
I get tired of myself in Oregon.

**Bashar:**
All right. That's not exciting enough. All right. And so you go with the flow. So, in general, what you're saying is your highest excitement is that there is no one place. That's true.

**Asker 20:**
There you go. That's your highest excitement. And so your place is every place.

**Asker 20:**
I love it. That's what I keep trying to tell my grandson, who continues to tell me, "Hey, I would really like to settle down in high school."

**Bashar:**
Then let him.

**Asker 20:**
Okay. Does he have to go with you all the time?

**Asker 20:**
He does not.

**Bashar:**
There you go. Awesome. Problem solved.

**Asker 20:**
Problem solved. That was difficult, wasn't it?

**Bashar:**
Freeing.

**Asker 20:**
All right. Last question. I have a parrot. His name is Oscar.

**Bashar:**
All right. It's just uncertain how old he is. My grandson was kind of wondering if he was between 35 and 40. And, and some message from my parents. He's just a wonderful friend of mine. And, and what do you wish to know?

**Asker 20:**
His age.

**Bashar:**
His age. Yeah. 39.

**Asker 20:**
Thank you, Bashar. I love you.

**Bashar:**
You as well.

*[Applause]*

---

#### **Topic: Channeling Entities and Shared Reality**

**Asker 21:**
Well, hi. And are you good day?

**Bashar:**
All right. Um, first question is a fun question. It's... oh, so the rest won't... well, all of them are.

**Asker 21:**
Oh, all right. All of them are fun questions.

**Bashar:**
Yes. All right. Um, how we, as people, and everything we socialize now... you, as a channel on the other side of the veil... I am not the channel. Or the channel is sitting in the chair in front of channels.

**Asker 21:**
Yes. Or you as Bashar, yeah, on the other side of the veil. Do you guys have me? Cuz I came to understand that you guys had a whole group of channelers together now. After that, did you guys, on the other side of the veil, get... get together? Other side of the veil? Or why are you talking about us like we're dead?

**Bashar:**
No. Well, on the... you mean in our civilization?

**Asker 21:**
In your civilization. If you've met other channels in our... you know, on our planet. But then you guys... you mean other entities that are being channeled?

**Bashar:**
Is that what you mean?

**Asker 21:**
Yes. Other entities that are being channeled. In way.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Of course. We're aware of many other entities that are being channeled and interact with many of them quite often.

**Asker 21:**
Oh. Okay. That's cool. Cuz how we do, as a... we resocialize and get together. I was just wondering if you guys do the same thing.

**Bashar:**
Well, not like you do. Not exactly. Not with the entities. Most of them are nonphysical.

**Asker 21:**
Oh. Some of them are physical, and we can sometimes, as you say, get together. Mhm. But, again, we trust the synchronicity of when that is relevant.

**Asker 21:**
Oh. Okay. So how it happens is unknown until it happens. It happens. We don't organize or send out invitations, in a sense.

**Bashar:**
Okay. Cool. And then the second question I had was, maybe it's a chaos of... I tend to think of... I like to see how things work and all that. And in our real... in our reality is that, um, I'm experiencing this reality with everybody here, but then they're experiencing their reality at the same time. Yeah. And, and, but you are experiencing what you call a shared reality by agreement. By each of you creating your own version of each other that is similar enough so that you can have the experience of a so-called shared reality.

**Asker 21:**
Yes. Okay. So that means that they're together with me at the same time in my reality.

**Bashar:**
That's my reflection. To a certain degree. Not completely 100%, but to a certain degree enough that you can experience the concept of a somewhat shared reality.

**Asker 21:**
Yes. Oh. Okay. Okay. A mass consensus agreement as to what the game is that's being played and what the rules are, so that you can all experience a similar game enough so that you can interact with each other in certain way.

**Asker 21:**
Oh. Okay. Okay. Now that was about the two questions I had. And that's it. That's no.

**Bashar:**
All right. Thank you.

**Asker 21:**
No. Thank you very much.

**Bashar:**
All right.

*[Applause]*

---

#### **Topic: Including Others in Excitement**

**Asker 22:**
Okay. Hello, Bashar. And to you, good day. I'm really happy and excited about my life. And I love to share it in relationship with other people. And my highest excitement, often I'm wanting to include others. Yes. That sometimes don't cooperate with my highest excitement.

**Bashar:**
Then that's not your highest excitement.

**Asker 22:**
But sometimes I feel that is my highest excitement.

**Bashar:**
It can be your highest excitement to include others. But your highest excitement has to include their ability to say no. Or it's not really representative of excitement. Because if you need them to say yes and agree with you, that's not a definition of excitement. Excitement allows others to be who they are, knowing that whatever their response or reaction may be to your offering of sharing is exactly appropriate for them at that moment. And therefore, you allow them to be who they are in the same way you would like them to allow you to be who you prefer to be.

**Asker 22:**
Perfect. And one of the things that I'm hoping for in my life right now is... hoping for...

**Bashar:**
All right. Desiring. Go ahead.

**Asker 22:**
Is something you're excited about?

**Asker 22:**
I'm excited to find relationship, in that partnership with someone who would share that time with me in my life.

**Bashar:**
All right. And do you trust the timing of your life?

**Asker 22:**
Big hesitation.

**Bashar:**
Yes. I guess I'm a bit impatient.

**Bashar:**
Well, you know what we just said about that. You are not yet the person that you actually prefer to be, who would attract the person you prefer to attract. Would you rather attract a person when you're not yet the person you prefer to be and get a reflection of that?

**Asker 22:**
No. Thank you.

**Bashar:**
Then trust the timing.


**Bashar:**
You must understand: it is this simple. If you act on your highest excitement to the best of your ability every moment that you can, with zero insistence on the outcome, that is the formula. It's the only formula. It's the thing that's going to allow you to reach the highest experience, the greatest expansion, and be most in alignment with yourself and creation, which is basically the same thing. It really is that simple. It's not mysterious. It doesn't have to be any more difficult than that. But if it seems more mysterious, if it seems more difficult, if it seems like there should be something else beyond that, examine your beliefs and find out why you think that should be so.



#### **Topic: Ascended Masters and Permission Slips**

**Asker 23:**
Hello, Bashar. And to you, good day. Good day. Uh, so my highest excitement in life is creating, like, processes or, like, permission slips for people to use to understand that beliefs create their own reality. All right. And, uh, my interest lately has been understanding the belief systems of, uh, like, enlightened masters. Yes. So, like, when it comes to, uh, they are beyond belief. They know who they are.

**Bashar:**
That's why, again, I said it renders down to the two simple words: know thyself. Right? So ascended masters know who they are. And knowing is above and beyond belief. Right? So, uh, my question is: can you give examples of, maybe, Jesus or Buddha, that how they transcended limited, uh, beliefs that they had? And what permission slips they used to get from the, uh, the limiting belief and then transcending it? What kind of permission slips did they, lo, uh, use in their lives?

**Bashar:**
They used life itself. Does that make sense to you? They trusted that whatever would happen in life would be exactly what they needed to achieve that transcendence. They trusted life perfectly, 100%, that it would deliver exactly the processes they needed to experience transcendence. That's what they knew for a fact.

**Asker 23:**
So were they just... they weren't... were they born with that? Or how? What circ... some were.

**Bashar:**
Well, in a sense, all of you are. Right? But some are born with the realization of that, and some of them have chosen to go through a process to gain realization of that.

**Asker 23:**
What would that process be?

**Bashar:**
Whatever process happened to them is what I'm saying. It's not a specific process that works for everyone. I'm simply saying some of them chose to go through the process of whatever would come to them that would put them through a process. In other words, again, they trusted how their life unfolded.

**Asker 23:**
So can you give me an example of one of the... of something that happened, maybe in Buddha's life or Jesus's life, that got them to go to transcend that? To know thyself? That's something.

**Bashar:**
Well, being nailed to a cross did it.

**Asker 23:**
It. Okay. What about Buddha?

**Bashar:**
The idea is seeing the light in the darkness. For Buddha, recognizing suddenly, in an instant, understanding what you would call a Gestalt awareness: that a single candle at night in the darkness is all that is necessary to illuminate the entirety of creation, if you know how to look.

**Asker 23:**
Okay. Thank you.

**Bashar:**
Now, I was being a tiny bit facetious with the idea of being nailed to a cross, but only a tiny bit. Because what we are actually saying is they were willing to allow themselves to be taken to extremes to actually transcend past the idea that any of those things can actually affect who you really are as an eternal, indestructible being. So that was the process that was allowed there.

**Asker 23:**
I see. Um, yes. Yes. Thank you. Um, so is... can... so when it comes to my feeling is I've been studying... no one moment. Are you sure?

**Bashar:**
Oh, all right. We are being asked to ask you. This may come in the form of what you call a joke. What were Jesus's last words on the cross?

**Asker 23:**
Nailed it.

**Bashar:**
Which goes back to the idea that, to lighten, to be enlightened, you have to lighten up on yourself. I exactly. Don't take it so seriously.

**Asker 23:**
Right. Um, and then I have a question. Yes. That went over well. Thank you. And then, in the prior trans... uh, transmissions, you talked about how the one...

**Bashar:**
Moment. Isn't it interesting that nobody asked who you are? Just plowed right ahead. Who are you? The one that gave the joke was Jesus.

**Asker 23:**
Oh, right.

**Bashar:**
On. Remember that one of your biblical quotes is, "My joy I leave with you."

**Asker 23:**
Yeah.

**Bashar:**
All right. So now you may plow ahead.

**Asker 23:**
Thank you. Um, and then, on a different topic, when it comes to, uh, you were talking about how the Yel will be the first hybridized race that we come into contact with. Yes. Uh, is there going to be any race before that that's not hybridized?

**Bashar:**
Or is it? Yes. Don't ask who. I can't tell.

*[Music]*

**Asker 23:**
You all right. But good question. No. Um, and then my final question is about the, uh, the moment of now. Yes. Um, one thing that really changed in my life was when I read the book, uh, *The Power of Now* by Eckhart Tolle.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Totally. Um, totally. Totally. Uh, when I read it, I had a shift where then I realized, uh, that the only moment that... that... that does exist is now.

**Asker 23:**
Yeah. Um, but at the same time, I thought about it later, and isn't that, at some level, even though it is true, isn't it still a belief in itself?

**Bashar:**
Or is it? It's an actual description of the structure of existence. And one of the Five Laws. Remember, laws are the laws. They are not beliefs. They are a description of the structure of existence itself.

**Asker 23:**
I see. Yes.

**Bashar:**
And then does that help?

**Asker 23:**
That does help. And then one last question. Oh, one last, last question. Is... is Eckhart Tolle a Wanderer? A type of Wanderer?

**Bashar:**
Yes.

**Asker 23:**
I thought so. Okay. Awesome. Much to you.

**Bashar:**
Thank you. And you as well.

*[Applause]*

---

#### **Topic: Parenting and the Contact Crystal**

**Bashar:**
Well, so we're actually a little ahead of schedule. Qu of... uh, schedule. So not really. I mean, can we not? Really? Perfect timing. Okay. So you don't want another question? Or beyond what I was... you may ask your Ustream question.

**Asker 24:**
All right. Well, okay. Okay. Well, there are some... well, there you go. Okay. We'll see how far you get. We'll see. Um, okay. What if your highest excitement includes something long-term, such as having a child? Yes. And you run out of that excitement. You are stuck in a position where you can't get rid of the child, but being a parent is no longer your excitement.

**Bashar:**
We would suggest that you reexamine in the idea that the initial creation then was not made within the vibration of excitement, but within the definition of an idea that excitement would wane. And that's a different definition than the definition of excitement. So the person had the definition of excitement that you can never really keep that level of excitement going. It goes away after a while. That is not a definition of excitement. And so they manifest a child that supported the reflection of that belief.

**Asker 24:**
Absolutely. You understand perfectly.

**Bashar:**
Okay. Good. Um, okay. And why is the contact crystal a hexagon?

**Asker 24:**
Are you looking at me?

**Bashar:**
Well, it supports the idea, very specifically, that what is attached to it, around it, as the central hexagonal crystal, are six others, which represent the six hybrid races. And altogether, the seventh that we have talked about many times.

**Asker 24:**
Wow. Oh, that's nice.

**Bashar:**
Therefore, it's appropriately designed.

**Asker 24:**
Okay. And Earth being the sixth hybrid race.

**Bashar:**
Because there are already five. We are the third. But altogether, the six, and the one in the center, will be representative of the seventh hybrid race when all six hybrid races exist and blend together into the seventh. That's the core. The core of our common evolution. And what we share as family. And where we're going into what you call the future together.

**Asker 24:**
Okay. And then the last one is... well, I'm going to... there's another one after this. But oh, another last, last one.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Yes. So, aiming... how many last, last questions you people have?

**Asker 24:**
What is the link between reincarnation and balancing our masculine and feminine poles and sexual orientation?

**Bashar:**
This question may not really translate properly in the context of the way these things actually work. Because, as we have said, reincarnation, in a sense, can be a real experience, but it's not an accurate description mechanically of what's actually happening, since all lives exist at once. So to ask what is the length of time for reincarnation is only the idea of asking about what kind of an experience can someone have relative to these experiential concepts that is imposed upon the actual mechanical structure. And the answer would be: it can be different for every person, based on their belief systems and what theme they are exploring. There's no standard, in that sense, since all we're dealing with is an experiential projection or an illusion.

So maybe a way to approach this would be more like understanding the concept of sexual orientation and the balancing of the male and the female energy, and how that's being expressed currently in our society.

**Asker 24:**
Yes. Well, I suppose, if you want, we could collect all the different ways in which people experience that and give you a relative average. If you want a relative average time frame for you, would be about 300 years.

**Asker 24:**
Wait. You're saying the time frame for the length of time to balance out the idea... reincarnation... of the balancing of the male and female poles? Is that sense about 300 years on average for your species?

**Bashar:**
And isn't that, like, one of the most critical elements of our imbalance right now? The imbalance between male and female?

**Asker 24:**
It's one of them.

**Bashar:**
Yes. And a lot of people are exploring their sexual orientation in a reality now where there's more allowance for that. Yes. And therefore, you are changing the average. Used to be about a thousand years.

**Asker 24:**
Wow. And so, when you were talking about the markers turning on, yeah, like, I remember you telling me that actually you create the state of being where the markers are turned on. It's not like somebody from outside comes in and turns on your markers. Correct?

**Bashar:**
So the first thing is, by getting into the higher vibrational states, by going gamma, and by following your passion, yes, that by doing that, it then allows you to turn on your own markers that are already there, which then allows you to access more. I would say, yes. Yes. Yes. This is another version of the old idea that we've discussed, where you think you're only using 10% of your brain. But in fact, you're using 100% of your brain to make it seem as if you're only using 10%. So now, as you expand, you start using 100% of your brain to make it seem as if you're using more than 10%. But you've always been using 100%. It's just that you're hiding some of the effects from yourself because you don't believe you're ready for them.

**Asker 24:**
So when you have been sharing with us about following your excitement, one thing that I've learned over time is that the precision with which you're capable of expressing your excitement in a way that it is not clouded or... yes. The precision with which you are capable of clearly understanding the mechanism and how it works and why it expresses itself that way is of paramount importance. Because it always hearkens back to the idea of the eye of the needle. That, in order to truly move to that level of experience, yes, you have to be willing to let go of any definitions that are impeding your ability to truly express your excitement.

**Asker 24:**
Yes. This is again another analogy of dropping baggage that has nothing to do with you. But in the actual experience of it, what we've seen is that a lot of people follow their excitement, but they're not really sure if it's 100% that they're expressing their... but this is the process that you're going through: is learning how to be more discerning about what is and isn't. And one of those big issues is: is it anxiety, or is it coming from a place of true excitement?

**Bashar:**
Yes. That's the discernment you need to develop. And all it takes is absolute honesty and a willingness to investigate those things and to not be afraid if you encounter fear-based beliefs. Because they're only beliefs and can be changed. So perhaps one of the ways to determine whether it's anxiety or excitement is to see whether or not, in a sense, roadblocks or, uh, things come up in the path that say, "No, you can't do this anymore. You need to do something different, or you need to express this in a different way." Because otherwise, you could be doing your excitement, thinking you are, but you're actually expressing anxiety.

**Asker 24:**
Yes. And then that can be one of the way. That's why we said there are things to look at that are specifically the things that make you unable to actually take action on your excitement. That you have agreed to abide by. And it can be as simple as another person who's in a more... I guess, has more dominion in a situation, saying, "No, you can't do that." It can come that way. It can come that way, as long, again, is the person saying that this is not appropriate is coming from a place also of centeredness.

**Asker 24:**
Yes. So I know it's just so challenging. I mean, it's juicy in the sense that you live on a juicy planet. There's... there is a complexity to really getting in touch with what's anxiety and what's excitement.

**Bashar:**
Yes. There is a rich complexity. But it's still not complicated.

**Asker 24:**
I wonder, is there almost, like, a litmus test? Good grief. Um, a litmus test that you can use with yourself to test whether: is this anxiety, or is this excitement?

**Bashar:**
Yes. There are many. You want to share one?

**Asker 24:**
But what if I don't?

**Bashar:**
It's okay.

**Asker 24:**
How do I feel about that?

**Bashar:**
How do I feel about that? If you say you don't feel like it, yes. Well, you know, then I'll probably think of something myself.

**Bashar:**
All right. Well, that's a litmus test.

**Asker 24:**
What? Because I'm not getting upset with you for not doing it.

**Bashar:**
Oh. And that was the other thing you were talking about. Where it's like, the way to test, like, you were talking about when you're in a situation where another person has a different point of view than you do. Yeah. And the idea is to go within and see if you're reacting, yes, to the other person's point of view. Particularly if what they're suggesting is making you feel disempowered. Because they're not making you feel disempowered. You're making yourself feel disempowered. That's the honest litmus test: is to take full responsibility for what you feel. Right? Doesn't matter whether anyone else's intention is to get you to feel that or not. You are utterly responsible—all of you—for what you feel. And when you take full responsibility for it, then you'll be able to clearly understand what belief systems exist within you that are generating that feeling. And you'll understand the purpose that the interaction served to put you in touch with something within yourself you needed to be in touch with, so you could clear yourself. Regardless of whether the other person clears themselves or not. Right? Or even needs clearing or not. Right?

Because the idea is, anytime you're actually getting into an argument with someone, yes, that shows you that you're not clear. Yes. Because otherwise, you would be approaching the other person with the recognition that they're experiencing a limitation, and that you are... you are wanting to be helpful, supportive. You truly are coming from a place of support and helpfulness. If you are not, the idea of, "Well, you should change because you're not the way I want you to be," or, "You're creating a limitation for me that I don't like," because it doesn't matter what anyone else chooses. You know, it has no effect on you if you don't choose to be affected.

So ultimately, one of the strongest litmus tests you can use is the one that says: am I feeling an internal reaction to what is happening to me in my reality via another person or something else that's generating an anger feeling that's lasting beyond 15 seconds? A victimization feeling? This is exactly why we often suggest that the question to ask yourself is: "What would I have to believe is true about myself in relation to the way I do?"

**Asker 24:**
Yes. But, you know, then a lot of times it comes down to, well, you know, ultimately, everybody here seems to have an issue with self-worth. A lot of them do. And empowerment. Yes. So if these are the major themes that you're all exploring right now, but then it just kind of gets all lumped into one thing of, "Oh, well, I guess I'm not worthy." You know?

**Bashar:**
Yes. All right. You can take it down to that if you want, if that simplifies it for you.

**Asker 24:**
it's useful to know that you may not feel your full empowerment, or you may feel... if it's getting muddled, then that's one of the tricks of the negative belief: to muddle it so you won't have anything to focus on and let go of. Right? So that's the moment you pull out that piece of paper that you... when you went through all the negative beliefs and say, "Okay, I'm having an internal reaction to something that's happening." Yes. When something doesn't seem to work, you know your definition isn't clear. Clear why your definition isn't clear will always be based on a belief that's out of alignment with your true self.

**Asker 24:**
Yeah. It's almost like the idea of, if you ever find yourself in a situation where you go, "I should be able to manifest this. I should be able to attract this. Why am I not doing that? It's really so simple to do." But obvious it's relevant at that moment. Yes. But, again, it comes down to trusting how things unfold. And if something isn't manifesting that you think ought to be, getting in touch with the ideas and the beliefs that you have, using the threshold of believability test to see if you can let go of things that might accelerate the manifestation. But when you get it down to a certain point where no other beliefs can be let go of, then whatever time it takes is the time it needs to take for you to appreciate the process you chose to experience by choosing to have a physical life. Because physical life is all about the process. That's what life is. The process is the point. 


### **Holot Meditation Guidance**

**Bashar:**
How's it going? But it'll say, we will continue the transmission by asking each and every one of you to become relaxed and start breathing deeply in and out. And as the lights dim, and as your music comes up, focus your eyes on the center of the holot and allow yourself to just drift freely. Relax. Let go. For now, all you need to do is be in the experience here and now. Allow the information coming to you through the holot to go into your neurological net through your eyes, through your ears, through your skin, through your electromagnetic aura. Allow yourself to just open up and absorb whatever it is you need at this time, knowing it will be perfectly the right thing for now. And it may come in as a seed and may blossom later, but you know the seed has been planted. And that seed is the seed of change. The seed of change within you, so that you can become more and more who you truly are. And allow yourself to let go of that which you are not, which no longer serves you, so that you will not be held back, weighed down, so that you'll be able to float and fly and drift freely through your consciousness, through the sea of awareness that is all that is, that embraces you in unconditional love and support.

And as you focus on the center of the holot and breathe deeply, gently in and out, and begin to truly let go and relax, and feel everything melt away that is not you. Allow yourself now the opportunity to remind yourself that this is just another form of mirror that you are looking at. A reflection of your greater self, represented by all the lines and connections and colors in the holot. And the center of this structure is the eye of your inner mind, your higher mind, looking back at you, giving you all the information that you need in its gaze. So that you know you always have access to everything you need here and now.

And as you continue to breathe gently in and out, we take this opportunity to remind you that, as you are more and more willing to act on your true excitement, and to be able to tell the difference between your excitement and any anxiety you may be holding on to through fear-based beliefs, that as you gain more ability to discern the difference, and as you align more fully with that which is truly your excitement, your joy, your true vibration, your signature frequency, your unique presentation of consciousness, the facet of the multi-dimensional crystal that you are of all that is, that you allow yourself to truly know—not just believe, but know for a fact—that if you act on your highest excitement to the best of your ability, with absolutely no insistence or assumption on the outcome, but knowing that whatever the outcome is, you will relate to it through a positive definition so that it may serve you in a positive and beneficial way, then you know for a fact that you will always be capable of transforming, changing, expanding, growing in ways that are always going to be representative of joy and ecstasy. And opportunities will synchronistically come that will provide the doorways through which you can walk that will always be the path of least resistance. For these are the tools in the complete kit of excitement.

And as you breathe, take them in and make them your own. And know they are true for you. That by acting on your excitement and following the formula as precisely as you can with integrity, it will support you in all the ways you need to be supported. No matter what form that support, that abundance, needs to be expressed, it will be there in perfect timing. That it will be the driving engine that moves you through life and gives you energy and fulfills the idea of the passion you have about being passionate. And it is the organizing principle that, through synchronicity, will always show you what needs to be done in what order and when. Again, in perfect timing. And in any given time period that is allotted to you, all the things that need to be done in that time shall be done. And the things that are not do not need to be and are saved for another other day.

And it is the path of least resistance that allows you to flow effortlessly through life smoothly, knowing when to turn, because it is still part of your path. And that there can be no obstructions or obstacles or impediments in it. That everything is there for a reason. And that the winding path may be the fastest path. And it is the path that leads and connects to all other expressions of excitement in your life. No matter, again, in what form they may come. For it is not by how they look that you can tell they are connected, but by the fact that they contain more excitement than anything else at that moment. It's the excitement that is the thread to follow that tells you that these things, no matter how they look, no matter how different they may seem, even sometimes in opposition, are connected by that excitement. Are the thread to follow. And that it will lead you to more and more expressions and fuller and fuller expressions of your joy and your passion and your love.

And that it is also the reflective mirror that will reveal to you, even as you act on your excitement and bring up for your attention anything within your unconscious or subconscious mind that may be out of alignment as a fear-based belief with the true vibration of your being, so that you can identify it consciously. For once you do, any belief that is out of alignment will appear illogical, nonsensical, and you will know it has nothing to do with you and came from someone else. And you can drop it, for it is not yours. And it will lighten you up, and you will fly free, carrying that which is only your own, which weighs nothing at all.

And you will know that this kit of excitement, being complete, will absolutely leave nothing relevant out of your life that needs to be there. That's important for you. And so you will know that anything that is not there does not need to be there. And that anything you really, truly cannot do does not need to be done, for it is not you. But you will always be shown what is. You will always be given the opportunity to know what is you, if you will only but look with open eyes. And know that these things are presented automatically. For excitement is a self-guiding, self-perpetuating, self-expanding principle that always works. Whether it works positively or negatively for you is your choice, based on how you choose to define your relationship to every experience in your life.

You do not need to push. You do not need to manipulate. You do not need to make something happen. Allow yourself to allow it to flow, knowing that that already knows best what will work for you. For you, the unique you that you are, tailored specifically for you. For all that is is that great that each aspect of it, infinite though they may be, is taken care of in perfect timing and in perfect support with exactly what it needs and exactly when all the pieces fit.

Allow yourself to let that in. Breathe it in with absolute certainty, with absolute knowingness, with absolute love, absolute conviction, absolute commitment, and absolute integrity and impeccability and precision. And in all that, and that state of being that is truly you, you will know thyself and see yourself anew. And see clearly the nature and structure of existence that exists within the here and now eternally and indestructibly. For you exist, and you always shall. For your point of view and your perspective is unique and shall and cannot ever die, no matter how much you may change. What you actually are is your unique perspective of all that is. That is your nature. And that is indestructible and eternal.

