---
heading: Part 1
title: "The Next Phase"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1998-01-30
icon: Bashar
weight: 985
showdate: true
---



This would be the fall of 2016 where everything would change and I think perhaps many of you actually believe us.

The circumstances themselves aren't the issue. Your state of being always remains the issue. How you respond to what happens is far more important to how you experience your reality than what is actually happening. 

The idea is to always, as we have also said, make sure that you always allow yourself the opportunity to give the circumstances that do occur a positive and beneficial meaning for you, even if you recognize that there may be things within whatever happens that you don't necessarily prefer. The fact that it happens can still be used by you in a positive way to propel you forward in the way that you actually prefer to be propelled, in the direction you actually prefer to go.

You can allow yourself the opportunity to begin to recognize how to look at recent circumstances in a positive way that will allow you to receive a benefit, no matter what anyone else chooses to experience. Now we understand that a lot of you, as you say in your language, are freaking out. But again, there are many, many things that can occur still. 

Many things are up in the air. The greatest effect here is the effect that you call shock and disorientation, but this can be a positive thing if you use it that way. For you are literally now in a place where you are disoriented from your previous reality. You are floating in limbo, many of you. And this is an opportunity for you to create a new reality in a very accelerated way because you have been unlocked by the shock from your previous reality, from any degree of complacency, from any degree of assuming that things would simply move along as they always have. This can be used in a very powerful, transformative way.

Look at it like this, by analogy, if you are willing to do so. Let's say you are in a little boat, a kayak, whatever you wish to be in, and you're floating down a placid river, all nice and slow and peaceful. And then suddenly you hit some rapids. If you understand how to ride the rapids, you can actually navigate your way through them and get downstream much, much faster than otherwise you would have just floating along on the placid river. So this is an opportunity for you to experience a few rapids. And yes, there may be some bumps, but if you can understand how to stay in the state of being you prefer and allow yourself to ride those rapids with skill and vision, you will find that this is actually something because of the unlocking that has given you an opportunity to move very quickly, to accelerate very quickly in the direction of the reality you prefer.

This is at this nexus point right now, one of the major nexus points of the splitting into different parallel realities. One of the things you have been given the opportunity to see very clearly is that in a sense, you are living in two different countries. Yes, yes, yes, almost evenly divided. So the idea is now that those who have in your terms, quote unquote, "won" your election, they now feel capable of allowing themselves to be clear about who they are because they feel safe in doing so. And so this allows you the opportunity to see exactly who they are, and nothing is now hidden because they think they are free to express themselves no matter in what way may seem non-preferential to you. It gives you a better idea, a much clearer idea, because they are no longer hiding their ideas. They are no longer hiding their perspective, their points of view, no matter how vibrationally incompatible you may find them. They have now exposed themselves for who they are. And thus this is part of what we have said about you're getting everything out on the table, very, very transparently, so that you can decide what kind of a world you actually prefer, and they can decide what kind of a world they actually prefer.

I will tell you that there are still going to be a few surprises even for them, because the person that they have elected won't necessarily be always doing things the way they thought he would. So this is far from over for a lot of reasons. This is a process that's going to continue for quite some time, and you will see that it will fluctuate quite radically from time to time in a variety of different directions. But nevertheless, what you are really seeing, what you're actually experiencing for the first time more consciously, is literally two side-by-side realities that are reflective of actual parallel reality splitting. So this is your opportunity to remain in a vibratory state, not be scared, not go negative, not in any way, shape or form react, but respond with that positive vibration so that you can ride that wave that is now happening and allow yourself to ride it, as we said, in balance, with skill, in the direction that it can propel you toward what you prefer, much, much more quickly.

This shock wave is literally that, a wave of shock, and it can propel you very rapidly in the direction that you prefer if you use it that way. So please remain in the state of being that you prefer. You have many symbols that are inherent within this particular event that has happened now that are very similar to other events that have happened in terms of their shock ability. As has been pointed out already, you have a very similar energy to what you experienced on what you call 9/11, and it was repeated on 11/9. So you're getting the mirror image and coming out the other side. You have the anniversary at this time of a wall that was torn down, and people talking about building another one. So again, you see the polarity and the paradox in these events. If you know how to look at them, you know how to read the symbols, know what kind of a permission slip this is for you. So do not despair, do not give in and match the vibration of fear and negativity. See this as an opportunity that others may not see and lead the way by staying in the state of being that you prefer, so you can by example demonstrate to others how they can also ride this wave.

There is no need for the negative reaction. You're only matching the frequency of what you fear. Allow yourself to see this in a very different way, for it is a very powerful, magical opportunity that has unlocked you from an old reality. It is also in many ways acted as a safety valve for many kinds of tensions that were existing on your planet. We understand that there may be many other countries on your world that are reacting also with fear to this particular kind of change. But at the same time, if you look around, the ones that were actually in a sense most dangerous to you have now actually relaxed their stand because they feel that the person now in charge of your country is someone they can actually speak with. And whether that becomes true or not, the idea is the tensions in the areas that need to be brought down have now gone down. So things have actually smoothed out in those areas because they are of like mind now. It may not necessarily be a mind that most of you prefer, but the very fact that they think they can communicate breaks the tension. Do you understand? So you have to look at the results on a big picture, a big scale, to understand all the ramifications of what's going on here. But you will not be able to see them in a positive way unless you yourself choose to be in a positive state first. Because remember, you cannot perceive what you're not the vibration of. So by staying in a positive state, you will get more opportunity to have inspirations and big picture perspectives that will allow you to see what we're telling you very clearly: that this was an opportunity to unlock from the status quo, because it is one of the most important things that needs to happen in a civilization that's about to have contact with extraterrestrial societies in an open way, is that you get unlocked from the status quo. You have to drift free of all you assumed was normal, of all you took for granted, of the society you thought you were living in, to actually drift over into another vibration of another reality that contains the potential for extradimensional contact. And now you are drifting in that limbo. You are unlocked from the status quo. You now are open to the idea that well, anything can happen now. And that is exactly the state of being you need to be in to actually experience open contact with us and other extraterrestrial and extradimensional beings. So this is working in your favor, and it is in that sense a gift you have been given, even though it may not necessarily have been the intention of those that gave it to you, because things work in mysterious ways, do they not? And you can always see the positive and the negative and choose which one you prefer.

Now I will share something else with you that also is a precursor and leading up to the idea of change in many areas on your planet, but specifically we are still going to focus on your particular country. Many of you have known for quite some time that our ship is above the area you call Sedona, Arizona. Yes, yes. And we have talked about the idea that we are connected to the vortex, a very powerful vortex in that area, and we have been pumping energy and vibrations into that vortex so that it can contain more potential for discovering yourself, more potential for awakening into who you truly are, more potential for extraterrestrial contact.

Now here's the trick. As you watched on your election night, your country maps, yes, and you had your blue states and your red states popping up. And you're not ready to count yet. And as you started to see more and more and more red, yes, more blue states previously flipping to red, yes, and you saw a huge swath of red through the middle of your country, yes, yes. And then you saw one little arm of red come over and go down to what Arizona. Now there's a link to that vortex for all those that consider themselves to be in the red areas, and the vibration of our energy can now begin to slowly leak and follow that path up into the red areas and start to blossom in all the little vortices that exist in those areas. So that unbeknownst to a lot of people, they will suddenly be bathed in an energy they quite can't figure out what's happening to change their mind, to change their perspective. They will be given an opportunity to have more of that energy by creating a connective link for themselves in that way to that vortex without even knowing what they're doing. But we know what's going on, and we know how to take advantage of that and allow our energy to blossom in those areas. It doesn't mean someone has to pay attention to it, but it affords more opportunity for that energy because they're all considering themselves now to be united, and they will look at that pathway in their own way, but they will not see the underground pathway that we see for that energy to leak into all of those areas. So that will also help promote the idea of opening up minds, opening up and changing perspectives and allowing them to reconsider and see more clearly the choices that they are making. And you may see some very surprising changes going on in that area over the years to come, between your year now and your year of 2020, with respect to the idea of contact, with respect to the idea of the disclosure of the presence of us and other extraterrestrials. Not saying it's going to happen, so please do not misquote us. But there is a higher probability now of disclosure actually happening because what do you have in the position of power? Someone who simply does what they think is cool and makes them look good. Hey, what if I told everyone that the aliens are real? Wouldn't that make me stand out above everyone else? Narcissist that I am. So there is actually a potential for someone who is typically a loose cannon to let something slip that they think might actually make them look good, regardless of what others may actually prefer them to do or not do. So the idea is even though they may think they can rely on their candidate, they're going to get a few surprises.

Now the idea is also to allow yourself to remember that the affiliations of that person are actually much broader than you may think. They have actually come from an opposite political party. Yes, you understand the background. And they are allowing cracks to happen through which other kinds of energies and interests will come in that again many may think will serve their agenda, but may actually serve an opposite agenda in time. So this has actually allowed them in their complacency to open up cracks and not pay attention to certain things that are leaking in, such as the fact, and what may seem to be extremely paradoxical to you, that the focus on the election was so intense that those opposed to legalizing marijuana didn't know what hit them, weren't paying attention, and suddenly that passed. And so you see the ideas working for you in a variety of ways, kind of like what you call your little magic trick of the cups and the balls, and where's the ball now? Where's the ball now? Where's the ball now? Oh look over here, oops, you missed it. So again, there are opportunities that are here for you that are peppered throughout this experience, this event. You just know how to look and how to find them by staying in the positive state.

And with regard to the idea of disclosure, you will find that at this time, whether it's this individual or not, things have been accelerated in a different way along a different path. It doesn't mean it was the same path as before, but it may actually allow for more probabilities and more opportunities to open up, more cracks to form in the status quo, so that things may crumble in such a way as to allow for new things to come in much more quickly than before, than the status quo itself may have actually allowed. We're not talking here about the idea of the integrity or lack thereof of any individual or who you may have preferred because they represent something that you are in alignment with. We're talking about the idea of exactly how your society needs to change to open up to new things that you all say you would like to happen, that you would prefer to have happen. And sometimes those things can only happen in the most unexpected ways when things do create a shock wave within your consciousness so that you're finally willing to truly let go of the status quo and realize that you really can't predict for yourselves a lot of the things that are going to be happening. All bets are off for you, and this is a sparkling opportunity because now you can decide in this limbo state really where the ball on the wheel you're spinning will fall. But the idea of the analogy of roulette is that now there are two balls on the roulette wheel that represent the two different parallel realities, but the wheel is still spinning. They haven't really fallen yet, no matter how it may look. They haven't fallen yet. And when they do, you will see more and more and more acceleration in the split of the two realities and more and more shifts and changes going on on either side until they finally settle out and you really start to feel the drifting apart of those two realities.

And with regard to disclosure, you will find that as the pathways are laid out now and as the probabilities have increased for alternate paths to such and to open contact, that sometime between now and certainly no later than the idea of 2025, some form of disclosure of our presence will occur. There is another demarcation point in your year of 2020. It might happen before, it might happen after. There are still many things in flux, many things in fluctuation that cannot be in any way, shape or form predicted. All you need to know is that you have unleashed many more probabilities for you to take advantage of, to allow yourself to ride that wave in the direction of what you prefer, if you will just learn to look at it that way. Is it a deal? Yes. All right then. We thank you for allowing us to share this perspective with you. There will be more to come. And in return for the gift that you are giving us, we ask now, how may we be of service to you? You may begin with your questions if you wish.

Okay, you don't have to go in order.

Hi Bashar, and are you good day? My name is Irene and I'm excited to be here in front of you and ask you my one question.

Yes.

Um, I understand one moment... Proceed. Understanding that time is not linear, I want to ask a question in time can be experienced in a linear way, correct? And in fact, that's usually what you actually refer to as time, yes. But it is an illusion nevertheless. Yes, yes. Um, to me this is like a romantic question. A romantic question? Yes. Um, my husband and I, we have been talking about that in our next incarnation we would like to meet again. But you understand that reincarnation is an illusion? Yes, it's real as an experience. You can have the experience that you're reincarnating, but everything exists all at once. All lives exist right now. So you may create the experience of going from this life to another life and, quote unquote, meeting again. But those lives already exist. Those are different people already existing right now simultaneously with the people you are right now. Therefore, you're making connections to them energetically to download information, to download energy, to aid and assist you in this experience, just as they may be drawing upon your life experience and downloading information and energy to aid and assist them in their experience along that connective line you have made from the present, just as they have made it from their present. Whether you call that the future or not doesn't mean it doesn't exist right now. So you don't actually ever become them. The idea is that from the oversoul perspective, it might be more accurate or precise to say it that way because the oversoul has all these extensions in incarnation simultaneously. And you could say, well, as the oversoul, I have this life, I have this life, I have that life in whatever order you wish to linearly perceive it. But the oversoul also understands that all those lives exist all at once, and that your experience of having one life after another is just a perspective from within the linear space-time framework, but it's not an accurate description of what's actually mechanically happening. You only have one life to live. Okay. The idea is that as you shift yourself, as you change your perspective, you can create the experience of having other lives, but that's just an experiential perspective. Nevertheless, to address the question you asked, the idea again is you can choose whatever you wish to experience just by making the choice. It's not that difficult. If you choose to have that experience of having another life together, you can. Well, there's that stops it. Well, being in this incarnation? Well, being in this incarnation you mean? Well, being in physical reality, yes. Because the incarnation is who you are right now. Okay. So yes, you can choose to have the experience of having another life in physical reality together as two different people. I'm just telling you that that's just the perspective and an experience of the perspective. It's not actually what's mechanically happening because those lives exist right now. Those are two other people right now. Yes. Does this make sense to you? It does perfectly make sense. Did that answer your question? Yes, it did. Thank you very much. You're very welcome. You may also find that you might like to spend some time together in spirit as well.

Good day Bashar, and are you good day? I had this experience on Thursday night that I had this sort of energy going through all my back, back and forward back before it lasted a long time, maybe hours. How exciting! And then, um, you know, we seeing everything kind of blurry, yes. And then I, I don't know, something told me I really haven't checked the website of Bashar but to go there and discovered that by going in there I discovered that you were coming to Oakland. All right. And I, and so here I am. So you were being guided by your own synchronicity, your higher mind, your guides, and our vibration. So that energy that flew down my spine, what was that about? It was a message from your higher mind saying you need to pay attention to this synchronicity because it will somehow serve you. Okay. Yes, yes. It's not mysterious. These are the kinds of things that will happen more and more as you expand your consciousness. These kinds of symptoms are par for the course of the expansion where you become more sensitized to higher frequency energies and are more capable of consciously recognizing that you're being given information, and it will usually play out in the form of synchronicity or some form of urge that guides you in a certain direction. And that will tell you that this is where you need to be, this is the energy you need to experience to aid and assist you. But it's coming from your own higher mind mostly. Makes sense. Makes sense. I know that's why I said it. I have a quick question if you wouldn't mind. Thank you. Um, so I've been trying to follow my excitement. You have been what I'm following my excitement. Thank you. Uh, so and working towards uh that path and so about six years ago I decided to drop my executive assistant job and become a pet and dog walker. I did that for six years, loved it so much, worked my ass off like 14 hours a day. You no longer have an ass that said... Uh, then I got really sick and discovered at 40 years old that I had an emergency surgery and discovered that I had a congenital condition. So I had to stop that job that I love so much. And uh for two months I was in disability and and stuff like that. So now I'm back doing this job on the side as I work again in an office part time. And so my question to you is I'm following my excitement, so that job I loved it so much, no matter if it was less money, more work. But now there's this other part of me where my body cannot keep up with that excitement. Then maybe you need to do something else, I see. Or maybe you need to look at how you might have been doing it and do it in a more exciting way that wouldn't wear and tear on you. I see. Maybe you weren't open to the idea that there may still have been some old ideas in there that you didn't realize were there that you needed to work through. Nevertheless, you can still follow whatever at the moment is your highest excitement. And remember, the entire formula is not just act on your highest excitement to the best you are able. Is the next part of the formula? Yes, yes. So if you are no longer able, that's a sign that you need to make a shift and act on what you're capable of acting on that is representative of your highest excitement, because maybe it's telling you you need to make a change right now, whereas maybe you've been resisting that. I think I have. Yeah. Sometimes when you insist on the idea of acting on excitement even though you're getting signals that maybe you need to make a change, then you're not actually following your excitement because by definition your excitement wouldn't contain the idea of something that would wear you down. Only resistance does. So in resisting the idea that you needed maybe to do something a little bit different because you were so enthusiastic just about following your excitement regardless of what you were experiencing, you weren't really paying attention to your actual definition of excitement. Does that make sense? Totally makes sense now. Thank you so much. You are so welcome. Very much. Remember that when you act on your excitement, there is absolutely nothing that insists that it has to be forced. That's not excitement. If there is something going on when you are acting on your excitement that you need to pay attention to, pay attention to it. Remember that one of the tools of excitement is to bring to your attention any beliefs within you that are out of alignment with that excitement so that you can focus on them and pay attention to them and find out what they are and let them go, not just keep pushing through because you insist, well, my excitement shouldn't be having this effect. But if it is, it's there for a reason. Remember, even though it might bring up something you don't prefer, it's there for a reason, and if you ignore it, it's only going to get stronger until you pay attention to it. That's how it works. I agree. Why thank you.

Hi Bashar, and are you good day? Um, thank you for being here. Well I'm not, but thank you for the sentiment. I would, uh, I would like to have a conversation with you about my guides, yes. And I think it would go more smooth if you led the conversation. I don't think so. Now what are you going to do about that? Well, I figured you were going to throw me a curveball, so I'll, uh, are you going to guide yourself back to where you need to be? Okay, yes. All right. Remember, as we have said, guides are doing their job the most, the best when they are... what? ...guiding me? Oh well said. When they are unobtrusive. Yes. When you don't necessarily know that you're being guided, when it's subtle, when they use the things that are already in front of your face like synchronicities. When all they may need to do to get the information you need to you is just nudge you or whisper, "Hey, just turn left here, then you'll overhear what you need to know," instead of it coming with voices and trumpets like many of you ask for. That's not the way they really do their job best. They are attempting to remind you that you are your own best guide and to start trusting your higher mind and your intuition in these things. Yes, yes. I understand that. All right, well, there I started the dialogue. Now do you want to finish it? Well, I have, over the past few weeks, I've had thousands of questions and right now they are all eluding me, so I'll just all of them, not even one, one little one still hanging around. You can take a moment. I guess I'm afraid of the question. What are you afraid of? Um, what are you afraid will happen if you ask it? My head will explode and everybody around me will have to clean up the mess. Would that be so bad? There are probably mops and brooms somewhere, maybe a bucket or two. However, my question... I remember hearing you say one time that you could teach somebody to channel in five minutes. Yes, and I can actually teach you that you are channeling in no time at all, right? Because you are. I guess that was going to be my next question because I started thinking, okay, there's the channeling like you were mentioning how we're always channeling, yes. Um, I know that I am channeling my guides sometimes. Um, they get me in trouble. Um, but uh, trans-channeling? What's not actually a trance, it's a state of heightened connectivity. Okay. But nevertheless, if it's something you want to do in a vocal way as you're seeing right now, is that what you're saying? Yes. If that's exciting for you, then obviously the opportunities will present themselves to you in life. But one of the easiest things to do to practice is to actually have someone asking questions because then they act as a grounding circuit that pulls the information through you, allowing you to get out of the way and anchors and grounds the information in them. If you're just doing it yourself in a room all by yourself, you don't have to go into that state. You can just receive the information telepathically directly. The only reason to go into the vocal channeling state is so that you're acting as a translation device for someone else asking a question, in the way that you are of us. Does that make sense? Absolutely. So surround yourself with some people who are willing to ask the questions. Let yourself get out of the way by not caring whether you get the answer or not, not caring whether you look ridiculous in doing so, get over the weirdness, kind of thing. Yes. So just allow the mechanism to be set up properly so that like electricity, it can take the path of least resistance through you to the person asking the question instead of staying within you because it has nowhere to go. Make sense? Yes, absolutely. So you can practice that way. That's one way. Other ways may come to you through your synchronicity. Is this exciting for you to do this? Oh absolutely. I see a lot of people doing it and I want to have that fun too. Well then go right ahead. Okay. But you need to do it in a way that is actually representative of the way it's actually done, right? I just need to get out of my own way basically. Well yes, and you will, and you will learn things in the process. And at first there may be some resistance, but that's all right. You'll learn just like with anything. Yes. Practice, practice, practice, right? Absolutely. All right, does that help you? That does. Thank you. That's what I needed. All right. Thank you. Thank you very much.

Hi Bashar, and to you good day. Thank you for speaking to you again. And I have actually two questions. M is my friend piggyback on me, so I have to ask her questions. Her question is, we are taking MSM and the vitamin C, 6,000 to 10,000. You tell us that's good for us. It can be, but again these are permission slips. If you're attracted to use it, you're attracted for the reason that it will probably work for you. Yes, it is working for us. All right. But one question is, we buy this things MSM plus grape seed extract together and is that effective? Isn't that a good idea to the group? Grape seed extract, 6,000? You have to leave it up to the individuals as to whether or not they're attracted to do such a thing. Permission slips don't necessarily work for everyone. So it doesn't matter if it's working for me? It's okay for me, but my friend had a question. So it doesn't matter actually. It's okay. Up to yourself. Yes, of course. It's up to you. Okay, that's one question. Yeah. And another question is, um, I'm leaving all my family in the Bay Area, my four children and my granddaughter, and I'm moving on to my life. I'm 67. And uh, I'm going to a little island and I kind of am a little bit afraid. And I want to know, make sure if I'm making right choice or not. Why are you leaving your children? Uh, because I'm tired of raising them. I'm 67, I want to live by myself. I want to find myself because when my kids live next door to me and my children live very close to me, and my life is not my life. How old are they? Uh, 37 to 47. Have a nice trip. Thank you. You think I'm making right choices? Is it your highest excitement to do so? Yes. Right then. If it is not the path for you, the synchronicity will show you that it's not. But at the moment, if it seems to be the path of least resistance that is representative of what you prefer as vibrational compatibility, then doing so will be in alignment with who you truly are. And making that choice will also give the rest of your family the opportunity to rely on themselves. Yes, yes. That's the one big main reason I was leaving. Then that may be the best way to raise them, by no longer raising them. Well, actually kids raise me? I think they don't raise me. I'm moving on. I'm backward. All right, but again, if you're truly following your excitement, then do so, and it will be the best for all concerned because it will give them an opportunity to decide what it is they prefer for themselves at that point by seeing the consequences of their choices in comparison to your choices. Yes, yes. Does that help you? Yes. Because you can't really be in a relationship with them anyway if you're not actually being who you are. Yes, yes, yes. So do what you need to do. Things will change in some way, shape or form, but you need to become who it is you truly are if you're going to have any kind of really solid relationship with them anyway. And you need to act as an example to them that they too can see that it's important to follow your excitement, and they can learn to rely on themselves and be responsible for their choices. Yes, yes. All right. So again, have fun. Thank you very much. I appreciate. Yes.

Hello my friend, and to you good day. It's a little, um, I can hear you in my head, I can feel you in my body, and I'm talking to you in your body, but you're feeling your own higher mind matching our frequency is what you're experiencing. It feels wonderful. Yes, it does. Um, my good friend Adam Dubois at truthcodex.com wanted to send his heartfelt love and gratitude and thanks to you. Our unconditional love in return. He wanted me to say that you are such an inspiration. He found you at a time when he was awakening, and now he is a wonderful channel. All right. And he's living the fourth density life. All right. Um, what he's particularly glad about is that you laid out the exact steps to follow. Well, yes, that's what we're delivering to you: the instruction manual. These aren't philosophies, these aren't opinions, these are observations of how reality works, of the nature and structure of existence. We're literally giving you an instruction manual. And he's so excited and he's such a leader and he's passing it on to me, and I imagine in about two years' time, or maybe sooner, I will be doing similar type of work. How exciting! Yes, yes, yes, yes. He said he's thrilled at all the synchronicities that are happening. Yes, because again, synchronicities are always happening, but when you're in a positive state, you notice more positive synchronicity as opposed to negative synchronicity, because creation always reinforces what you believe to be true most strongly. And if you believe in the negative ideas, it can only really give you a reflection of negative synchronicity that reinforces those negative beliefs. So synchronicity is always happening, it's just that you feel like you notice it more as synchronicity when you're in a positive state. Well, I think getting to know your body and what the signals are and reaching for your happiness all the time, um, it's practice, practice, practice. Well, it's also being, being, being. Yes, it's also know yourself. Yeah, yeah. So that's great. Everything's great. That's all good. Yeah, it's all happening and it's um, I wanted to relay his love to you. Well, thank you, and we'll probably be talking with you tomorrow when I'm talking with him again 'cause you kind of pop in. All right, but again, remember most of the conversation is with your own higher mind. Yeah, I'm learning that. All right. Okay then. You are learning. Yeah. The second thing is my new Russian friend Elena Nicole, who I met just today, she was wondering if you would be able to tell her the date, time, and place of birth of her in this physical life, in her incarnation now. She is adopted. Nope. Ah, it's not coming up. Okay. Therefore, it is not our job to do so. But something else will help her. That much we can sense. She has the help she needs. It's not our job. Okay. Thank you. One more thing. This is my question. Yes. Um, what is the importance of the Narwhal agenda or the Narwhal project for me in the past, right now, and in the... um, my higher self has been relaying this term, "Narwhal rule, Narwhal rule," in my own personal channelings. All right. I've also been embodying it in my swimming and doing like the fin kick, you know like the dolphins do, yeah, and the whales. And so I was just wondering, what is that referring to? Well, it's a reflection of a combination of things. It's not only the idea of a connection to Sirius energy, right? But it's also a connection to the idea in some sense of nature spirits and magical experiences, since it is in some sense symbolic of something that you would refer to as the unicorn of the sea. Yes, yeah. It's also that which pierces and penetrates through different ideas, different realities. Yes, yes. So you can use it as a permission slip symbol in that way by aligning with that energy and experiencing yourself piercing through the veils of illusion to experience the magic of reality and increase and expand your connections to Sirius energy which can guide you. So it's not related to any kind of a hybrid program or those kinds of things? Not directly in the way that you mean it. No, no. Not that you're not connected, right. Just that's not the symbol for it. Uh, will I meet my hybrid children? I think there was a lot of activity of me providing my genetics. Yes. As there is a probability... yeah. Over 50%. All right. Yes. I over 50%. I'll raise my excitement. Well, I was just trying to sort out the symbolism and again I, I feel an upgrade just being in your presence, meeting you in the physical body, because you're matching the frequency. Yeah, yeah. And therefore you're feeling your own energy upgrading. Oh yeah. So but you're doing it, so I can answer my own questions more and more and more. Absolutely. That's again one of the symptoms of being in the preferred state of being. Right. Oh, because all the questions contain the answers, and when you're in the correct state of being, you don't even necessarily need to ask the question. The information is just there. Exactly. That's what I notice when I'm talking to my friend Adam at Truth Codex, when I'm talking to his higher self, it's almost like I don't need to ask the questions because I already know the answers. Exactly. You always get the information you need exactly when you need it. That's why we tell you all we don't have any memory at all of anything. We just know what we need to know when we need to know it. So how can I raise my frequency so I'm sort of like this all the time? You know the formula. Okay. I know the formula. You're right. Just I can't repeat it. My mind is numb. But just to follow my happiness... I'm not going to let you get away with that. Just repeat it. Repeat it. I can't repeat your words. You know I can't. You're scared. I asked you not to scare me, and you said you love me. So and why are you scared? Because my brain, like here, all I know is just be happy. Don't worry, be happy. That's the way I interpret it. All right. Don't worry, be happy. All right. And then go from one excitement to the next, to the best of my ability, with no expectation of outcome. Namaste my friend. Nice to see you in this arena. We thank you. All right. Love, love, love. Yes, yes, yes.

Hello Bashar, and are you good day? Um, so I think you, I mean you've said this quite often about following your highest excitement. Have I... sounds somewhat familiar, yeah. And it sounds so easy, so it's counterintuitive that any of us would not do so. Because most of you have been taught to think of things in a more complicated way. I'm wondering, would I at times choose not to in order to teach myself a lesson that I wouldn't have otherwise learned? Certainly, you can do it that way. You don't have to, but you could. And many of you do. Many times you will allow yourself to experience something you don't prefer because you have a belief that says that it's going to make what you do prefer clearer by comparison. It's like saying it's easier to see the tiny little candle flame when it's surrounded by darkness. Yes, yes. So sometimes you will create the dark to make it easier to see the light. Then you can move toward the light. So it just takes some people longer. So what's your hurry? You are an eternal, infinite being. Where are you going? What's your rush? The idea is to be here now because the process you're going through is the entire point of having the physical life. Life is process. The journey is the destination. There is nowhere else to get to. Here is where you all need to be. In what is happening right now, that's the most important thing. There is nothing more important than what's happening right now in your life. And right now, and right now, and right now, nothing is more important because this is where you exist: here and now. If you are trying to be somewhere else, caught up in the past, worrying about the future, you're not really being here and now. And then how can everything that is existing here and now find you if you're not home? It can knock and knock and knock, uh, no one's home, off flitting around dealing with the future, worrying about the past, so on and so forth. We'll just have to wait till they come home. Then maybe they can experience more of what's here in the now. So that'd be another way to find your highest excitement is to live in the moment. The idea is hand in hand, as you say, because when you act on your highest excitement, you are living in the moment. Yes, yes. And when you're living in the moment truly, you are expressing your highest excitement. They just are really two sides of the same coin. Yes, yes. Does that make sense? It does. Anything else? Um, of the room here, what percentage would you say is extraterrestrial? Just one? Well, I know one, but I didn't know if there was more. None of you come from another planet. Okay. You all have connections to other civilizations, but your bodies were born on Earth. Do you understand that? I do. Being an extraterrestrial means you were born on another planet physically. How do I phrase it then? Um, you all have connections to extraterrestrial civilizations. You all have counterparts in other societies among the stars, other versions of yourselves in a sense. But you all have that. Okay. Does that answer your question? Yes. From that perspective, it's 100%. But that doesn't mean you are an extraterrestrial in the classic sense of the meaning of that word in your language. Okay. Does that help? It does. Anything else? No, thank you. Thank you. Go back to your planet.

Hi Bashar, and you good day. Okay. I have several questions. Um, let's see where do I start? Perhaps at the beginning. Yeah. Okay, so um, can you give me a practical method for discovering the definitions in my life that need redefining? Yes. Anytime you feel an energy, a feeling, an emotion, a thought, a behavior that is out of alignment with what you prefer, that feels like resistance, that is not really the feeling or state of being you prefer, stop and ask, "What would I have to believe or define is true about me in this circumstance in order to feel, think, behave the way I do?" You can ask it another way as well: "If I am not acting on my highest excitement every moment that I can, what am I afraid will happen if I did?" Those two questions, from either direction, if you are willing to find the answer, will usually put you in touch with what the belief is that is generating the feeling, the thoughts, the behaviors that are out of alignment with what you prefer to experience. It's as simple as that, if you're willing to dig down and find those beliefs and make them conscious. Once you identify a belief that's out of alignment with you, it will suddenly appear to make no sense. And as soon as it makes no sense for you to hold on to it, it's gone. That's not the beginning of the process of letting it go; that's the end, because as soon as something seems to make no sense, you drop it. So the idea is to bring the unconscious negative belief to light in your consciousness so that you can see it makes no sense, and then it's gone. Does this help? Yeah. Okay. Can okay? Actually, this is a good lead into the next question 'cause I do have a fear here. Maybe you can help me. A fear of... I have a fear of going to jail. Did you do something? I don't know. Maybe. Um, I'm learning. Okay. Um, yes, my highest joy, I love to do research online, yes. And um, uh, what I've been learning recently is that um, perhaps income tax isn't constitutional for the average uh, American. That it was made... Since it's not... Eventually, the idea is that this system will change, and in fact, the present situation may actually accelerate that in a certain way. The idea is that eventually, over the course of the next several years, the concept of income tax will be eliminated, along with the institution that you call the Internal Revenue Service. It will be replaced by a federal consumption or sales tax, which means you will only pay the tax when you decide to buy something. But the idea is that if you wish that system to change, then do something about it by joining those who are working to change it. Yes. The one that is closest to the representation that we have just named is actually called the Fair Tax, and it's actually a house resolution right now under consideration by your government. So you can get on board if you wish to learn more about it and all the specifics in it and how you can help join and accelerate the process of changing that system, if that is something that you're excited to do. Yes, yes, I am excited to do that. All right. Then look up the Fair Tax. And I will. Thank you. And one more thing, yes. Um, what about the Federal Reserve? Um, being about private uh, bank... May I ask you a question? Yes. Do you enjoy conspiracy theories? Do you get a secret thrill from them? Um, may... Do you like being nervous about them? Maybe. Yeah. Okay. Why not lighten up and stop buying into the negative conspiracy theories and just do something about changing the system in the way that you would prefer? Yes, yes. Because again, remember, many institutions that operate on the idea of processing information through fear are using that as the chief mechanism to get you to believe that they are more powerful than they are. That's the chief weapon: information that makes you believe they're more powerful than they are, which then allows you to disempower yourself, give them your power, and actually fulfill the idea that they are more powerful than you are. But they're not. They just want you to believe that they are. Yes. So don't buy into what they're pedaling, and then you will see that they're not as powerful as they think or would like you to think. Yes, yes. You are your governments. That has never been clearer than today. So walk the path that you prefer. Take the actions that are in alignment with the reality you prefer, because that's what changes your state of being and shifts you more and more and more and more in whatever sequence you need to shift, at whatever rate and process you need to experience more and more to the alternate versions of Earth that are already more reflective of the reality that you prefer, because you've made that change within yourself. You never change the world you're on. You just leave it for another version of Earth that's already more representative of the change you made within yourself. On the same place? It's not the same place. It just looks like it is because that's your illusion of continuity. In the course of this conversation, we have all shifted literally billions of times per second through a multitude of parallel realities. But you, with your idea of space and time and continuity, make it appear as if you're still on the same planet. You left the Earth you started on a long time ago. You're no longer on that Earth, but you're creating such small incremental changes in the definition of the new Earth and within yourself that it still seems to be the same place. This is one of the symptoms and one of the experiences that most of you are going to start experiencing now in this new day and age: a break in continuity. Again, you just experienced the big one: a break in expectation, a break in continuity that leaves you disoriented and free-floating and realizing that you're not in the same reality you thought you were. So the idea is you're not ever in the same reality moment to moment to moment to moment. But if you keep defining it as being the same, that's the way you experience it. So the more you change the definition, the greater the difference in your definition from moment to moment, the easier it is to perceive that you're actually in a different reality all the time, because the rate of change never changes. Your awareness of the fact that you're changing at that rate and your ability to create a different definition than before, a bigger difference in the definition than you were having before, is what allows you to perceive the rate at which everything is changing all the time. Does that make sense? Yes. I prefer not to pay income tax, but to do business with people. Um, but the idea is that's the system you have right now, so I should accept that. You accept it if you want to live in the system, but that doesn't mean you can't work to change it. Yes. It's not about breaking laws. It's about allowing yourself to change the laws because you have that much power because you are your government. Yes. You need to start acting like it and start working in ways that change the system to what you prefer. I'm just telling you that what you do when you do that is that you don't change the system on the planet you were on. You shift yourself to a version of Earth that already has the changed system. Hm, hm. Because it already exists. Because everything already exists. So you're just navigating yourself to that version of Earth by taking the actions that are commensurate with believing that those things can be changed. That's the energy state that navigates you through the parallel realities to the versions of Earth that are more representative of what you prefer. Yes. That's the way to do the transition in the smoothest, most empowering way. Otherwise, if you're just rebelling, then that means you're still under their control. Do you understand? Yeah. It's like saying the prison guard is as much of a prisoner as the prisoner because the guard has to stay and watch the prisoner. Yeah. So the idea of rebelling means that you believe they control you. If you understand that they don't, you will go about things in a very different, empowering way. Okay. Yes, yeah. Okay. Cool. Can I ask you one little question? That was a question. You want to ask another one now? I do. Can I? My knee has been hurting me and I like to know what the message is. I do not do health readings. Oh, but can you help me? Energetically speaking? Yeah, yeah. You need more flexibility. Okay. Thank you. In the things that support you. Okay. Yes, yes. Thank you, Bashar. Does this help you? Yes, definitely. Thank you. Now as you move through life, don't tax yourself too much.

Aloha Bashar, and to you good day. So many questions, so many answers. Great. No, let's see. 2003 I was in a car accident. How exciting! Traumatic, yeah, it was a traumatic brain injury. For 3 months I was on Mars talking to space aliens. I believed all right. So I got a lot of money from the car accident. Yes. But with the brain injury... Yes. What did it allow you to experience that otherwise you might not have? I trusted everybody and so the money's long gone. But well, the idea is not that you actually trusted everybody, it's that you didn't trust yourself enough. Nevertheless. So what? There are many forms of abundance. Yes. There are. Um, you do understand our definition of abundance? Yes. Enlighten me. The ability to do what you need to do when you need to do it. Period. That's abundance. If you have the ability to do what you need to do when you need to do it, you're just as abundant as anyone, no matter what the form of abundance is. It doesn't matter. I've had other experiences that were very miserable. How exciting! Lost all hope and any sort of... That's also exciting. Which when I saw three different events, but three extraterrestrials, three UFOs, yes, and then that gave me hope. No, you gave yourself hope. But hope isn't what you really need. What you need is to know yourself and to understand that you are never alone and that you always have reflections that will guide you. That's what you need to know. Yes. I understand what you mean by hope, but hope implies doubt. Well, I had twin baby girls born to me four years ago. All right. Congratulations. And then the mother took them away from me. That pulled me out of my hole, out of all the despair. Again, you need to understand how to stay in a positive state because again, you also need to take responsibility for the choices you make and the consequences of those choices because you're co-creating. But it doesn't mean everything is lost. It simply means you need to adjust your frequency to be the frequency and the state of being of your true positive self. And then trust that synchronicity will bring you what you need. You're just getting reflections of the states of being that you're going through, that you're choosing for yourself. You're getting those reflections because if a circumstance happens and you automatically define it as negative, then you have just proven that you are very willing to go into a negative state of being. You haven't changed. Remember, the measure of change is not whether the outside changes. The measure of change is whether you respond in the way that you prefer to, regardless of whether the outside changes or no matter how it looks. That's the proof you've changed. I don't know if I can get it back. Of course you can. How is anything exciting to you at all? Anything at all? Well, what's this? I'm coming here to speak with. All right. Well, after you are done with this particular encounter, back to nothing. What will you do that is exciting? What can you choose that's more exciting than any other option in your life? It doesn't have to be a big thing. What normal, typical thing will have even just the tiniest bit more excitement in it than anything else? Just pick something that has more excitement than anything else, no matter what it is. Could be as simple as taking a walk, could be as simple as phoning a friend, could be as simple as eating a meal, could be as simple as reading a book or browsing through a store. Just look at the options you have available to you when you are done with the encounter and pick the one that has just a little bit more excitement and act on that first, to the best that you are able, taking it as far as you can till you can take it no further. Do so with absolutely no insistence on what you think the outcome ought to be. And when that excitement seems to go away, then stop, look at the options, pick the next thing that contains more excitement, even just a little bit, than any other option. Act on that next. Just keep doing that and you will keep moving forward in the energy of excitement. It will expand, it will grow, it will bring you through synchronicity more opportunities for bigger excitement, and then magical, synchronous things will happen that you didn't even imagine were possible. When it gets big enough, but you have to start the ball rolling by taking the first step. If you don't take the step, you're not going to experience the chain and the path of excitement. Does that make sense? Yeah. It's that simple. Start simple. If you don't know what to do, start simple. You can always go back to simple and just start again and let it grow. It will grow naturally. But you have to pay attention to yourself at every moment because if something occurs, if something crops up that you would formerly have labeled automatically as negative, you have to stop doing that and you have to know that even though it might be something negative that you observe, might be something you don't prefer, that's just a neutral observation. It doesn't have any effect on you unless you choose to match the frequency. So just observe it, learn something from it, find out why it would be there because it might just be there to test yourself to see if you really are willing to change regardless of how things look, willing to be happy regardless of what other people say this must mean. Don't buy into other people's definitions. Create your own definitions of what it might mean for you. Even if you don't have a specific one, just know that it has to serve you in a positive way somehow, and it will give you a benefit. You'll eventually figure that out, but you've got to stop yourself from labeling things negative automatically. Yes, yes. So that's the process that you can follow that can be of assistance to you if you choose to do that. Does that help? Yeah, it does. All right. Thank you. Thank you.

Hello. So we thought we'd explore in more detail about the election and some of the things that have happened as a result. Um, and even just before starting this out, just want to be respectful to anyone who voted for Trump and felt that that was in their best interest, because one of the interesting things about this experience is it can be someone very close to you that might have a different point of view. Yes. And one of the things that we're challenged with with that is that if you find that you have people close to you that believe differently than you, finding a way to approach this change from a positive perspective will be supportive in uniting everyone. Yes. And I think that the idea that's very challenging for people is the way that there were many discriminatory things said. Yes. But as we said, the idea then is that you've brought everything out into the open so that you can really see clearly and not have any hidden agendas. In other words, they have exposed themselves. Yeah. I think that this has been such an amazing sort of cosmic representation. Yes. It gives us an opportunity to go to a higher level and look at this orchestration. Yes. Because the idea of contact is a positive direction. The idea of being supportive of all the differences between people and being fair and having a land that's supportive of everyone is obviously these are positive ideas. Yes. And when you look at things that unfolded along the way guiding this ultimate positive expression, you see things that could very easily be construed as negative, and some of them actually are. That doesn't mean you have to get a negative effect. Well, for example, one of the things they found out was that it wasn't that so many people voted for Trump than they did for Mitt Romney, it was that so many fewer people showed up to vote, and now they're upset because they didn't vote. Yes. And what was one of the last things that I said to a group of people? If you don't get out and take action, you deserve what you get. Yes. And so I thought that particularly I think there's a lot of young people that are affected by that. This will give them an impression of how important it is to take your position, you know, your place and to place your vote in a country where we're fortunate enough to have this opportunity. Yes. You become more interactive, more participatory. You actually make choices. Yes. Physical reality is about taking action. It's about being part of it. So that can be a really positive thing going forward for our society. Absolutely. And again, this is why we encourage all of you to look at it that way because if it brings to your attention that you may have then acted in a way that you didn't prefer and you now get to see the consequence of inaction, then now that may change your mind about how active you really need to be in the direction that you prefer. So this is a positive thing. As I said, you can sometimes see the light more clearly by seeing the darkness first by comparison. So this is a positive thing if you remain in that state. You will benefit from it.

Now another thing that was interesting is for those people whose candidate did not win, they actually each person went through their own unique process of how to cope with this. Yes. And it also revealed things like for some people it was kind of almost like going through a breakup. Yes, you know, like they were married to the country in a certain way and then all of a sudden there's this new person in that's espousing views that they don't know what to do with. And it's like losing your power connection with your government because you always felt like maybe your government was supporting you to some degree. Not losing your power connection to your government; it's recognizing there is a true parallel reality split here and connecting to the empowered government you prefer in the new reality and letting that pull you toward that reality like a magnet. It's all right to disconnect from a structure that actually doesn't empower you, that actually gives you ideas of disempowerment, fear-based beliefs. That's never been a power source. Breaking free from it is what's empowering.

So I know some people are asking like, well, how can I send love and support to Trump to help him to become the person that he needs to be to help us change our system while at the same time not ravaging everybody? By becoming the person you need to be first and then radiating a frequency that gives others, including that individual, an opportunity to pick up on that vibration, as I described with what we are doing through the Sedona vortex, spreading the energy in those areas. So at least there's an opportunity for people to be exposed to that vibration. So being yourself first is what will allow you to radiate the frequency that gives everyone else at least a choice and an opportunity to realize how they can also become more of themselves without going through a fear-based belief system process. And it also for each individual gave them an opportunity to see how they respond to shock and to change and whether they can navigate that. And you know, how long did it take you to process that? How long were you able to go before you moved into a truly positive state around it? And yes, it's good to be optimistic and at the same time not wear blinders. So it's not about deluding ourselves about how much this person may or may not change. But I know that some people went through an idea of like, here I'm following my excitement, I'm doing everything I can to support Hillary, and they need to see that they actually got what they needed if they will only look at it from that point of view. Just because it didn't happen the way they expected, what have we said about that? It's not about having things happen the way you expect. It's about having things happen in the way you need them to happen so you can use what happened in the most positive way. This is what will actually accelerate what it is they actually prefer, even though on the surface it may not at first appear to look like it. That's why you have to see with deeper eyes and broader vision so you can use it in the way that you would if it were a wave. As I said, a shock wave coming at you. If you see a shock wave coming at you, build a surfboard and ride it. Don't just let it overwhelm and drown you. Ride the wave in the direction you wish to go. It's that simple. You can use this to your advantage very easily, but you have to stay in the state that gives you the ability to see how you can do that.

And it was interesting how we actually set ourselves up because we created a greater shock by making ourselves think that it was going to go a different way. You had to do that in order to actually break free from the status quo because if you had any inkling that it was going to happen, it just would have been oh ho hum, all right, that's what happened. You needed to set yourself up in order for it to be a big enough shock to actually separate the parallel realities. Yes, yes. Well, so the chasm has been created and the crack is now widening. Be on the right side that you wish to be on. Yes. So this is a new place for us in terms of understanding how to cope with a real reality that actually has two different realities happening simultaneously. Like, how do you relate to that? I mean, like if you see that 50% of the country is static about this situation and 50% is not, yes. Okay. So well, what do you mean, how do you relate to it? You observe both neutrally. You recognize that there are now two representations of two different realities, and you go, "Hm, which one do I prefer? Which way do I prefer to look at this?" And then you make a choice. That's how you deal with it. So if you look at the reality and you say, "Okay, I see that there is some way that this new reality is going to take us where we want to go, where you need to go, where you prefer to go," right? It's the wanting that sometimes creates the expectation that doesn't get met. But if you always know you're going to get what you need, you'll be fine.

So the paradox is that is like you're saying, well, they're splitting into two worlds. And does that mean that I look at the other world like, oh well, that's not me and this one is me? Or do you go, okay, I support supporting the new reality that's been created? Yes. By doing that in a positive way with the idea that that energy will help propel it into something more and more positive. You don't have to support the principles to support the experience that it happened, because then you can use the experience as a springboard to propel you in the direction you prefer. So in other words, if we're sending support to the being that is in this place now, yes, in a leadership place, or at the very least a thank you for helping to propel us, yes. And by focusing on positive outcomes for that by a certain kind of support in a sense, yes, are you then now becoming part of that reality, the new one? Well, in other words, they're splitting, yes. So if I'm supporting the new reality that is part of a choice that I didn't prefer, as I just told you already, you don't have to support the principles. You're only supporting the fact that the event happened, the energy of the event. You're supporting it in the way that works for you, not in the way that does not. And that comes down to that individual decision to look at the situation preferably from the gamma state, yes, which is going to always be a broader, bigger picture and to have a supportive understanding. The universe is supporting you even if it doesn't look like it exactly. And then you will experience the support, and that's the energy that you'll be sharing with the people of that splitting reality that will then allow them to choose what kind of a world they want also. Is that right? Yes. So even by it splitting, paradoxically, you're still supporting it. Yes.

The idea again is that we have now spoken to all of you time and time again about the idea of the splitting prism and the train tracks going off in different directions. And up to this moment, most of you have looked at that as a metaphor. It's not a metaphor anymore. It's actually literally physically happening. You are literally splitting into two parallel tracks, and you're now experiencing both somewhat simultaneously. So the idea of that which is in template form, when you give it enough energy and give it enough time, will actually start to appear in physical form. This is one of the reasons for the strong shock and disorientation is that you are suddenly realizing the split is real. It's actually happening in physical reality, and you are standing right on the crack.

What another exciting thing about that is if you hear someone from one side describing their perception of the situation, it's like 180 degrees opposite of the other people. Like, of course the same reality? No, they're not literally. They're not. And as we have demonstrated many times, the same event can be perceived exactly opposite. It's the little demonstration we gave some time ago. Here you have the idea of the channel's hands in this position. If there were a person standing here and a person standing here, and I move the channel's hands this way, the person here would say, "Well, the hands are moving to my left." The person here would say, "No, no, no, they're moving to my right." The different perspectives give you a completely opposite and different reality experience from the same single movement. That's what's happening. Yes. It's absolutely fascinating. Yes, it is. What time is it? Um, all right. Do you have additional questions? I do. Do you want me to get off this subject or something? Well, this has been election coverage from CNN: Cosmic News Network. But it may be time to allow others to join in. Oh well, we'd have to pull some more names. So, okay, well, we'll come.

There is all an afternoon. Um, Garson Cohen? Michael Bishop? This is apparently a task that takes many people. Um, Nico Bishop? So we'll get back to you later. Bashar, tune in.

Hello Bashar, and to you good day. Um, I had the opportunity to speak with you when you were last in Oakland, and one of the things you shared with me was in speaking about my alien counterpart. Yes. And I had a few questions about that. Yes. One is that, you've spoken about alien counterparts, that most of us have that are on other planets or other places. Yes. But what you had shared with me was that my alien counterpart is part of the Yel? And is well, they are still in another place. Yes. And what I understood was that my alien counterpart was in a ship above Sedona. Is that correct? From time to time, yes. Okay. Not always. So given that my alien counterpart is within the field of our planet sometimes, yeah, sometimes. And since the Yel is considered to be the first alien race to make first contact? No, no, that's not correct. The first hybrid race. The first hybrid race, yes. Doesn't mean they will be the first extraterrestrial race. Okay. Thank you for the correction. Yes. So then my alien counterpart is in physical form, yes, and at times exists within the field of the planet? That one, yes. It's not that you don't have other counterparts, but since we're focused on that one, the answer is yes. Okay. So I had a few questions about that. And was, is my alien counterpart the same age as me? No. It's older or younger? You would consider it to be older. Okay. Is that significant, as in beyond Earth years? Normal human life? Something in excess of 157. In excess of, meaning over 157? Yes. And could that be up to a thousand, or is it around that area? The typical lifespan is more along the lines of a few hundred years, although there are exceptions that can stretch to over a thousand, but it's rare. Okay, thank you. And is there significance that this alien counterpart is female as opposed to male like myself? There is significance in the idea of the energy balance. And do I share energy or information or experience with this alien counterpart? Yes, of course. Does she have a name that you know of? One moment. First of all, there is a request coming in from the individual. Would you like us to deliver it? Yes, please. Would you please stop calling me an alien? Yes. I may be extraterrestrial, but I'm just another form of human because I'm a hybrid. An alien is something that is wholly unlike you genetically. Yes. Does that make sense? Yes, it does. Thank you. Can I talk more to her while we're here? I didn't go anywhere. Okay. But if you'll give us a moment. Sure. For the moment, you may refer to us as Wist. Wist? Yes, Wist. And when you say "us," that means more than the individual? Not necessarily. It simply means that I am connected to a collective as well, and sometimes the translations simply come across that way. Thank you. Is there meant to be a physical meeting between you and I during this lifetime? There have been meetings in a slightly altered level of physical reality that is not the one you're used to. So to answer you, the answer would be that's already happened, even though it's not the one that you're used to. There is a probability of the one that you're used to housing or homing or hosting the encounter, but that has not been completely determined yet. Not fully. If there is a physical encounter in the reality that I'm used to and know of, what would the purpose of that be? To say hi. To meet, to exchange in a different way, to actually experience the idea of the bonding of energy and the reflection of a counterpart in a way you never have. You can take your pick of those. I would totally enjoy that. Is there anything that I can do to accelerate that process or call it into being? I believe that Bashar has already told you that formula. Yes. The last time we spoke, acting on my highest excitement to the best of my ability with no expectation... Insistence. It's not so much the idea of lacking expectation; it's more the idea of assumption and insistence that you need to let go of in order to be in the proper state and use the formula in the proper way. Yes. Yes. Will that do? Um, will you be traveling soon? Will I be traveling soon? That was the question. Um, I don't have any plans, but I may be in Sedona. I will probably be in Sedona soon. Thank you. See you there. See you there. Thanks. Thank you.

Hello Bashar, and are you good day? I have a question for the Cosmic News Network. Um, all right. We are coming back online. Um, it's about the election and the characterization so far as we've discussed it has been two camps. Um, I don't fit in either of those camps. No, no, no. We understand that it is more than just the two. Nevertheless, it simply simplified the conversation to refer to it that way. What I'm perceiving is multi-track. You mentioned the track leaving the station. Yes, of course. But we're simply saying the idea is a split. I see the split as 99% to 1%, and therefore there's a lot more in common between supposed Republicans and Democrats. Um, the people who voted because there's a common ground of trying to live a decent life. Yes. We understand the environment and we understand your perspective. So um, what I'm trying to understand is, is there really what you mentioned was a parting of the ways? I was thinking that division is actually enabling this 1% to control, and unity would actually enable us to control, uh, or take power over our own lives. Yes. But the unity has to be within each individual. Yes, that's what I'm hoping. That's the direction I prefer. That's what's happening. That's the reality I prefer. Yes. That's what's happening. That's what you will experience eventually. So I think that's really my question. I feel like people are upset, but also what they are putting their faith in actually doesn't deserve it in the case of Hillary Clinton, for example. We understand what you're saying, but again, as we said, it's not about who deserves what. It's about using the event in the way that works for you and not getting caught up in the idea of this personality and that personality. They are doing what they were meant to do to help co-create the event that you can take advantage of to go in the direction that you prefer. So regardless of what they may seem to be as people on the surface, they are still benefiting you by giving you an opportunity to use this energetic split in the way that you prefer to. So you don't have to get caught up in what they represent as people. That's just a surface of appearance. There are much deeper things going on, and that's what you need to pay attention to: the broader perspective, the deeper perspective, so that you can propel yourself in the direction that you prefer. Thank you. I prefer this kind of News Network. So do we. It's the only kind we have out here. Cosmic News. Thank you. Thank you.

Hello, and to you good day. I'm from Sweden, if you insist. Yeah, I do. I am from Sälen. Hello. Very nice to meet you. Um, I've seen you a lot on the internet and you touch me more than no other being could ever do. Well, we thank you, and we thank you for touching yourself as well. Thank you myself. Thanks. I love you. You have such a funny language. Hey, okay. So um, I had... So I should focus about um, the first question about myself done first. Um, yes. Speak up. Yes. Um, what am I going through right now? Can you... A transformation, like all of you. Transformation. The ability to decide what it is you prefer to be, who it is you prefer to be. That's been a confusion for me this couple of weeks, two weeks. And uh, I felt that I hear the words I'm choosing are getting away from me, and I need to focus back to myself and my... yes, higher. Remember, the most powerful thing you can begin with is to know yourself. Know myself. Yes. You have to know what is really true for you and what is not, and then act accordingly. Yes, yes, yes. Perfect. Thank you. Anything else? And um, yes, yes. How can I excite myself to the highest ability with now this... This is... What the outcome ought to be? Say again. How uh, can I follow my excitement with no insistence on how the outcome ought to be? Because when you understand that by insisting on a particular outcome, that that's actually a limitation, you'll drop it. Because when you understand that what your physical mind is capable of picturing as an ideal outcome, to the higher mind might just be the beginning. And the higher mind might be able to bring you something even greater than your physical mind could imagine. As soon as you understand that your physical mind is limited in what it can imagine, then you will realize that what it can imagine might actually be limiting what could come to you in an even bigger way from the higher mind. And so when you know that, you'll drop it. Okay. So it's just a matter of time. No, it's a matter of definition. Ah, okay, okay. You have to define the symbol that you're using as a representation of an ideal outcome as nothing more than a symbol that gets you excited, that allows you to go into the proper state. But then you drop the picture, you drop the visualization, you drop the outcome that you've pictured because you don't actually know whether that is the ideal outcome or not. The higher mind knows what you really need. So if you get that picture out of the way, that expectation out of the way, then you will not limit the higher mind from actually bringing you through synchronicity what could be many times greater than your physical mind was capable of imagining. It's a lot of energy that comes to me when I speak about myself, expressions to other people, to be more themselves. And I tend to always... you choose, yeah. I choose to always dodge myself when I do that. To dodge? Like I give out the light energy to them to recognize for them to feel that energy and not that they have to... no. All right. So as long as you are being allowing, yeah, in allowing them to be who they prefer to be, then you are being of service by giving them at least an opportunity to match that frequency. But you have to allow them to also choose not to, in the same way you want them to allow you to be who you are. Oh, okay. Okay. So it's a matter of the sensing if that would be the right choice. Absolutely. That comes from knowing yourself and having more discernment about what it is that actually functions as help for someone else. Because many times, many of you think you're helping someone and you're not. Because you're just insisting on giving them what you think helps you when it may not work for them, and it may not be timing for them. You have to just put it out there, see who picks it up. The ones that don't pick it up at that moment don't need to, and it's okay that they don't. You're all infinite, eternal spirits. There's no hurry. Yeah. Yes. Does that help? Yeah, it does. I have one more question. Yes. I have had this roommate. He was very dark, black dressed. He was having these motorcycles, he was fixing, he was smoking a lot, and he was perfectly fine, his health. Yes. He ate well... I mean, it's all about what you believe to be true. And that's so crazy. I mean, that's so crazy. Yes, it is. It's like, how can somebody who's like he doesn't... he only listens to himself and he only does what he loves to do, and he gets like energy by smoking cigarettes. That's the path he's on. That's just it. It doesn't necessarily work for everyone, but that's the path he's on. Yeah. So you all depends what you believe is conscious. I can choose to also go to if that's relevant for you. It may not be relevant for your path. That's why again we say, know yourself. He knows himself. Sometimes the people that may appear not to be spiritual at all are the most spiritual people because they know themselves and they're true to themselves, and their beliefs create their reality experience. And that's that. And there's no question about it. So sometimes the people that try to be spiritual are not being spiritual at all because they're not being true to themselves. They don't know themselves. They don't know what beliefs are really in alignment with their true frequency. So you have to take it on a case-by-case basis. What works for one may not work for another. You have to have things that are relevant for you. But that person can certainly function as a good reflection and a good example that whatever it is you do find that is your true belief will work for you regardless of what other people think should be happening. Yes, yes. Does that help you? It does. Thank you. It feels good. Thank you. We thank you. You may now all take a break for your nourishment. We will resume this transmission after your break.

How's it going? Good.

Okay, we're going to get started now. Did everyone have a nice break? Enjoy your lunch? Yeah, good to hear. You'll need strength for this. Chris Gates, if your name is called, please raise your hand, bring you a ticket. Chris Gates, Ruth, do Danny Ling? Where is Danny? Raise your hand. Danny? No. Danny Kelly. You look like you're in a trance. I just have Kathy. There you go. Shachi Chandra, Shatri. Leigh. Sarde it for the moment. Moment, okay. So take it away.

Where to the cosmos? Oh, okay. For all, don't say. Let's continue the transmission with the continuation of your questions, if you wish.

Was that a question? Uh, nice to meet you today. All right. And good day to you. Uh, speak up, speak up so that all may hear what you have to share. Okay. Um, I question about, do I have anything, have any agreement with the ET civilization? Anything connect to like aliens? Do you have agreements with ET civilizations? Is that what you're asking? Yeah. Yes, you all do. Otherwise you wouldn't be here in this conversation. Um, could you give me something more personal, more specific? You have some connections to Sirius, some to Pleiadian, some to hybrid civilization, some Arcturian energy is within your patterns. There are a few other things as well that we are not allowed to talk about right now. MH. And so what should I do? What should I connect to? The idea is in acting on your highest joy to the best you're able, with no insistence on a particular outcome, you will apply whatever is relevant to apply of that energy in your life through inspiration, through imagination, through creative expression. Whatever way it works through you, you will bring that energy down to earth and allow it to flow through you by simply acting on your highest passion. That's all you need to do. Everything that is relevant to come through you then will come through you. And by giving that vibration out into the world, you allow other people an opportunity to pick up on that frequency and match that frequency to help them get in touch with their own connections as well, so that they can also express that energy on the Earth. Does that make sense? Mhm. And am I reptilian? To connect to reptilian? The idea of the reptilian connection is something quite different, and most people on your planet have misinterpreted it. Understand that those civilizations that you consider to be connected to the reptilian, as you call it, are simply another genetic manipulation of the Saurian DNA that used to exist on your planet many millions of years ago. They have evolved to a certain point. But many people when they encounter them, they will react in fear because of the reptilian section of your brain because you are a mammal, and it kicks in the survival mode because the reptilian section of your brain perceives them vibrationally as a predator and you as prey because you are mammalian. It doesn't mean they actually mean anyone harm. It just means that's your natural survival instinct reaction to something that presents itself to you as apparently a predatory species. They're not really, but that's the way your brain interprets these things sometimes. Do you understand? Mhm. Does that answer your question? Yes. Um, and I just wonder, like I'm left-handed. I was born as left-handed, but I was corrected, you know, to use right hand and why? We understand that that is something that has happened in your society. But use whatever hand is comfortable for you. Use whatever is natural for you. So I kind of lose contact with my naturalness. Then you can get back to it in a variety of ways. Whether you write with your right or left hand doesn't really matter. You can reconnect to nature in a variety of ways. Sometimes if you do connect to your true nature, you may find that your original left hand may suddenly be capable of doing things that it might not otherwise be capable of doing. But it doesn't have to. There are many ways to connect to nature. Just follow your imagination, follow your passion. Mhm, mhm. Does this help you? Yes. Are you done? Okay. I'm done. Thank you. Thank you very much.

Good day Bashar, and are you good day? Um, through a really great synchronicity I was able to be here. I was scheduled to be here before I even knew that you existed. Oh, all right. So I'm pretty excited about that. I wanted to know if you could give a little more clarity on the definitions of coincidence and synchronicity because sometimes people will say it's merely a coincidence that I was able to be here today. Yes. Well, there's no such thing as a mere coincidence. It is all synchronicity. Okay. So we're... it's all an orchestration on some level. You are attracting what you need in a way that's meaningful to you, creating those, quote unquote, coincidences in a manner that carries meaning and reflectivity for you in perfect timing. That's what synchronicity is: a way of physical reality showing you that everything is connected and that when you vibrate at a certain pitch, you will attract the things that are reflective of that pitch and they will manifest in perfect timing. Yes, yes. Our entire society operates on the principle that we would call synchronism, where everyone simply winds up being exactly where they need to be exactly when they need to be, interacting with exactly whom they need to interact with, and everything unfolds that way automatically, no planning required. Amazing. But your world is becoming more that way as well. And again, please remember everything is synchronicity. It's just that when you operate on a certain positive frequency, you begin to become more aware of the fact that everything is synchronicity because there's always an orchestration going on for someone. You may participate in all sorts of orchestrations and synchronicities that are not necessarily directed at you, but you may still participate in them so that someone else gets the benefit out of it. You never know what's going on around you. When you're sitting in what you call one of your traffic jams, it may be exactly what someone in that collection of cars actually needs. And therefore you may have participated in creating an environment that is actually serving them somehow to find something that is important for them to discover. So everything is actually a synchronous orchestration. It just may not always be evident to you. Okay, great.

Uh, the second question you covered: raising our vibration via trying, doing what excites the most, to the best of our ability with no expectation of the outcome, yes or no? Or no insistence of the outcome. Um, that's a formula. That's the formula. Is there any permission slips or any other ways to do that? I guess I'm very much a like... Oh, well, you need to... That is not a permission slip. You use permission slips wherever, however you wish to as part of your excitement if you wish. But the description we've given you is an actual energetic formula. Okay. That can contain the use of permission slips. Do you understand? I believe that's helping. Is there a way for us to measure our vibrations currently on Earth? Like, we can sometimes give you a reading of the certain frequencies that we focus on when we're interacting with all of you, and you may have equipment that might be sensitive enough to perceive and record what it is that we are perceiving if you allow your technology to go in a certain direction. Right now you are operating somewhere between 154,000 and 168,000 cycles per second at this moment. Okay, thank you. Yes. Um, I'm occasionally getting like a buzzing in an ear. It's usually followed by some sort of significant to semi-significant event. Is there anything to that? Well, you're giving yourself kind of a heads up. You're sensing the energy wave coming in from the non-physical that then manifests physiologically. Is there any way to get a little more clarity from that as it happens or right after that happens? Because typically it's just a buzzing and then shortly after something happens. Well, are you saying that you don't understand what buzzing is? You don't recognize it yet as the precursor of something manifesting? If it was a message, I'm not understanding a message from it. I'm not saying it's a message. I'm saying you're sensitive enough at this point in the expansion of your consciousness to pick up on the leading edge vibrational wave of something that's about to manifest because everything starts as energy. Okay, that helps. I mean, that's I guess what I was looking for: a what's going on there kind of question. Yes, that's what's going on there. Um, and one more that came up at lunch, since someone was asking about the IRS and the other things, um, 9/11... Was that our government doing that, or would did that, was that actually a terrorist attack? It was actually a terrorist attack. It doesn't mean that there weren't individuals who might be complicit in certain ways, but it wasn't in that sense what you would typically call a plot. Excellent. Does that help? Yes. Thank you for your time. Yes.

Hello Bashar, and are you good day? Yes. Uh, some a few things crept out. Uh, one is the idea of actually building a machine or computer to communicate with consciousness. You talking about something like artificial intelligence? Uh, is that what you are saying? I'll call it inherent intelligence of the universe. Yes, yes. But the idea in your society is usually referred to as AI. What we're saying is that when you do build an artificially intelligent computer, it actually will be that you're speaking to your own higher minds. Yes. So uh, I have actually I do have ideas of how to do that. Oh, all right. Go right ahead. Nobody's stopping you. Yes. Uh, I just want to get maybe some other clues of doing it. Uh, all right. The idea is that on a personal experience which is limited, so we're not able to sort of interpret sometimes random events, yes. Or we go to the collective pool of experiences and then we'll be able to draw the relationship between events that are seemingly random, yes. And from there, the first step would be to establish a communication protocol like a new language, what means what. All right. That's one way. We've done it in a completely different way, but that's one way. Okay. Um, how do you guys do it? Um, I'm just wondering. We have found a way first of all to understand that physical reality is simply another form of dream. MH. And as we became lucid in our regular dream state, we interacted with what we call the template level reality, which is kind of like a blueprint for the physical reality dream. And in making certain alterations in the dream state when we were lucid in the template of physical reality, we gained more ability to become lucid in the physical dream and understand it as a dream. And therefore we could allow certain kinds of physical manifestations to occur that had very dreamlike qualities to them. One of which then became the idea of crystallizing our non-physical higher minds, actually allowing there to be a material that we were inspired to create that when utilized and built upon an energy template, actually takes a form that is kind of crystalline in shape that actually represents an ability of our higher mind to manifest itself in a physical form. Many of our spacecraft are actually this. We are surrounded by the energy field of our higher mind and manifested in a crystalline form. So we are actually flying around inside our higher minds. That's why we can telepathically communicate with our ships and why they are intelligent, because they are us in a different form. They're an extension of us. They are a materialization of our own higher minds. Yeah, that I understand. I guess it's a direct connection instead of what I guess what I have in mind is something in between having an equipment. Yes. Well, that's a process. And at this point in your technology, you wouldn't be able to necessarily do it the way we do it. So the process that you are doing, if you are attracted to continue along that line, can lead you into understandings that will help elevate your ability to go further. Okay. So that's one question. Then the other one is, uh, I had a dream, I say a year ago, about two beings, yes. Uh, it was two female beings, yes. And there was a, I would say a, an event. So I would like to find out, is that of the Essani or is it a Yel or that's for the hybridization? More likely Yel, somewhat connected to the hybridization, but also connected to something else altogether. Other kinds of connections that you have. What connections do I have? The ones that were prominent there were a combination of things: some of Sirius, some of Pleiadian, and again something else. Okay. Nevertheless, there is connection to the Yel as well. Yeah. Does that help you? Yeah, that helps me. And uh, I'm following my excitement, all right. Uh, to me it's, and all this is a spiritual thing that yes. Yeah, it's all spiritual. Physical reality is an extension of spirit because remember, physical reality is within you. Spirit is not within your body. Your body is within your spirit. Yes. Because it's a projection of your consciousness. You are dreaming yourself into this reality while you're in spirit. Yes. And yeah, and I'm um, I guess uh, in doing my excitement, I'm you know, I'm writing books, all right. You know, particularly about one and zero because to me it's existence and non-existence, and that has to be understood that zero does not exist. Yes. Well, zero does exist. Otherwise you wouldn't be able to talk about it. Yeah. Because the idea is that if it's truly non-existent, you wouldn't be able to even conceive of it. Yeah, yeah. As a concept, I guess not absolute 'cause there is always an existence. Yes, exactly. Yeah. True non-existence cannot be conceived of. Correct. Yeah, I know. Yeah. Of course. All right. Thank you very much. Appreciate it.

Yeah. Please remember that by definition, non-existence doesn't exist.

Hello Bashar, and are you good day? I'm very excited to have a conversation with you today. We are equally excited to converse with you. Great. Um, I've had a strong knowing that I was going to be here today for quite some time, and realized last night that today is the one-year anniversary of my husband's passing. Oh, all right. So I was wondering if those, if today and me being here has any connection to those two events? No. None at all. Okay. Do you believe me? Um, no. Thank you. Then why did you need to ask? Um, it's nice to have the conversation. Oh, all right. Yes, it is. Is there any message or anything that you can expand on that for me or... Daffodils? Daffodils? Yes. Daffodils. Okay. Does that mean anything to you? No, not at all. Not that, no. Nothing's coming. Daisies? Daisies? Yes. Hm. All right. We were looking at the color of the flower. Okay. So daisies means what to you? You're being handed a bouquet of them right now. Um, happiness. All right. So are you happy? I'm happy. All right. Yes. Thank you very much. Job well done. Yes. And staying in that happy state will allow for stronger communication. Okay. One moment. Even in spirit sometimes you humans say strange little things. We are actually being taken to task for misinterpreting daisies as daffodils by the spirit. He did have a great sense of humor, or does have a great sense of humor. Thank you for keeping it in the present. Yes, because everyone in spirit is still very much alive. In fact, in a sense, ironically, compared to spirit, you're all the walking dead. I'm sticking with that one. So expanding on the opportunity of having this conversation with him as well, um, any that he would like to tell me about our youngest son, Matthew? You will get assistance with that from someone else. Okay. There is someone being sent. Okay. All right. Okay. Anything else? Yes. One more question. Um, the title of today's workshop is perfect for me because I'm entering a next phase of my life, leaving the job that I've been at for 20 years and kind of not really having a lot of home connections, just a lot of opportunities out in front of me, which is exciting but also sometimes a little, oh my gosh, what am I going to do now? You're going to act on your excitement. Okay. So anytime you say, well, this is exciting but what am I going to do now? Act on your excitement. Oh, this is exciting but what am I going to do now? Act on your excitement. Oh, this is exciting. You understand? I do. I do. I think for me it's letting go of the control of the outcome, thinking I have to control that. But you see, the idea is that when you try to control it, you're not controlling it. When you surrender to it, you're in control because it already works. So it's going with the flow that gives you control, not trying to take it where you think it should go. Right. Yes, yes. It is an illusion that you can control things in that way because those things are you. They're extensions of you. They're reflections of you. Therefore, going with the flow and flowing with the current is being in control because the current already knows where it's going. You just have to go with it. Okay. Does that make sense? Absolutely perfect. Everything is already under control. Perfect. Wonderful. Now remember, even when you feel out of control, you're controlling that. You can never actually be out of control. The only way you can have an experience of being out of control is if you're controlling it. The only way you can have an experience of being disconnected is if you're connected. That's the paradox. Okay. Yes, yes. Does that help you? Absolutely. One moment. Is there a particular favorite bedtime story? Um, that you read, that you tell? No, not that's coming. What about from the child's perspective? From the child's perspective? Um, how old is the child? Uh, the one I mentioned earlier? Yes. Oh, he's an adult. He's in his 30s. All right. And from his perspective, I think was there a bedtime story? Um, Goodnight Moon? Is that a guess? Yes, it's a guess. I don't remember. Well, why did you bring that one up? Because that's what's coming up. All right. And so how about going back and reading that again? Okay. And when you do, someone will be sitting by your side. Okay. All right. All right. That's the message. Wonderful. So Goodnight Moon. Thank you. Love you. And you as well.

Well, hey Bashar, and do you good day? Um, well I just wanted to thank you. You've been a really big help for me and my mother, helping us with the passing of my dad. All right. And she says hello. All right. Hello. Um, well my question is, I have two cats and they are in Spain right now. They are in Spain? Yeah. I'm from Spain. Oh, all right. Yes. And I'm here for a while, and I was just wondering how I could communicate to tell my cats that I'm fine, or is it even necessary? Do they will they miss me? Well, in some senses yes, they may. But that doesn't mean you can't communicate with them, and it doesn't mean that they're not sometimes aware of what you're doing anyway. The idea of course is that there are many ways. When you think of them, when you feel them, that vibration and you love them, yeah, they'll pick up on it. Okay. Is there any specific permission slip you would... Whatever works for you. Okay. One moment. Are they on a plane? No, no, no. They're in Spain. In Spain, the country. In the rain. Actually, one of them is called Anima. Like your friend? All right. And the other, Pooty Man. Define it. It's an invented name. Repeat it. Pooty Man. Pooty Man? Exactly. Pooty Man. Anima, Pooty Man. Pooty Man, Pooty Man. Anima, Pooty Man. Pooty Man. Pyman? Is that the permission slip? Yes. Okay. All right. Uh, my next question is, I see that you guys are very funny. And I was wondering if you could expand a bit of what humor means or your definition of humor on your planet. In many ways it works the same as it does in yours, although there are different expressions of it in our culture than in yours. But the idea in general is what you kind of just experienced: something leading up to what you assume to be a certain conclusion, and then the unexpected happening. That is usually the basis of humor. Okay. Because it is the cosmic joke. A bit like Trump. You see how that works? Everyone thought they knew where we were going, and then you dropped the unexpected. Um, I've got another question. Uh, I was wondering what kind of challenges your civilization is going through at the moment. Oh, many, many, many and always. Myself, I am as I say a first contact specialist, and so most of the challenges that we experience aside from the ones that we experience with all of you have to do with fathoming the different kinds of realities that we encounter and truly understanding all the different perspectives that went into creating that particular expression of a reality, some of which are so unlike our own that we may at first not even be able to really understand what's going on, nor really perceive everything that's happening in them. But again, we face the challenge and dive deeply into it, mostly by usually having some kind of an incarnational experience in that civilization, in that reality, so that we can draw upon that experience and relate to that reality a little bit more like a native. Do you understand? Yeah. So these are the challenges that I will often experience in my personal life, and there are many other kinds of challenges that our people may experience, some of which would not even be describable in your language. Thank you. Um, you talked about chakra points on the Earth. Yes. And I heard you talk about Mount Shasta, yes, and Hawaii, yes. I was wondering if you could be kind enough to reveal a couple of others. Fujisan, Kilimanjaro, Everest, and several other places. Okay. Um, I just got one more question. Yes. Okay. So um, a long time ago when I took psychedelic drugs, my sense of touch is almost like double. I can kind of touch everything double. And now every time I think of that, I can feel it. Yes. You're taking yourself back to that state. Yeah. And it's almost as if like right now I'm touching my t-shirt and it's almost like if it's fizzy. You are feeling different levels of the reality of the material. Yes. Okay. You have extended your sense to be able to sense more deeply into the idea of matter. Okay. Yes. Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you.

One of the challenges that we... are. Universe for those that have not heard us describe this: instead of the idea of empty space in which there are solid planets, it is the idea of a space that is filled with a kind of gravitational fluid everywhere there would normally be empty space. And there are bubbles in this fluid, and upon the inside surfaces of these bubbles are where the inhabitants live. It takes a while to get used to. Nevertheless, sure, you're all awake. Do continue. So right now in my life I'm going through what I feel is transformation of some kind. I've had an amazing, interesting roller coaster year. How exciting for you! Uhhuh. Anyway, uhhuh. Well, anyway, uh, when you're enlightened you can say that. But um, at the moment in my family structure, yes, I have grown kids, two grown sons with me, have a brother-in-law who lives with me and my husband and my three grandchildren. Oh, all right. How cozy it is. Now I don't... I seem to be the only person who doesn't really fit in. It's like I'm at one vibratory rate and they're all at a clustered vibratory rate. This is only from my perspective, yes, of course. And so when I think about why I'm there, it almost seems like maybe I'm in the wrong place, maybe it's time for me to go do something else. So my question was, yes, in my energy, do you see anything that I need to know about? Is there something that you've wanted to do to be of service to others specifically? Um, always. That's why they're all there. Specifically? Um, actually I'd like to travel, learn more about what you're teaching. Travel where? Follow you around and follow a couple of other teachers. Yeah. Do more of that so that I can actually raise my own vibration. Like I came here today and I figured I would feel better than I do. All right. But is there some other specific expression of service that you feel called to do right now? Painting? Is that a guess? Well, there's several things. Um, I publish and I'm painting. I enjoy publishing as a service to people. I paint to help myself do mental health. Painting doesn't mean your painting can't also be a service to people. Right. And the publishing that you do, why is that exciting for you? Um, because I get to lift people up and put people on magazine covers that normally wouldn't be on magazine covers and look for good deeds that people do. And is that something that you do within your family? Every now and then, but not much. Mostly with the general public or the communities that I'm tied to. Why not with your family? I don't know. Why not explore that and see if there is more there than meets the eye? The kinds of things that you ask, the kinds of things that you say to the general public when you are being of service to them in your publishing business, see if you cannot adapt some of that questioning and information to dialogues with your family and see what comes up. You may be surprised at some of the things they may say. Now it's not like you have to be vibrationally compatible with your family nor they with you. And if you feel so moved to do other things that have nothing to do with that particular situation and that is truly representative of your excitement, then by all means do it. You don't really know in what way fully you might be rubbing off on them. But are they in a way that they are rubbing off on you? Definitely. Positively or negatively? Well, I don't know. I'm the center of the family, so... and I keep saying I don't need to be the center. What makes you the center? Well, my darling most beautiful grandbabies love to run up and see me first thing in the morning and yes, hopefully they want to see me last thing at night. Why does that make you the center? That sounds like you're on each end. Yeah. Okay. Uh, my husband, I seem to be the center of his attention and I don't necessarily want to be the center of his attention. The center in a negative way? Oh, well no, no, no, just too much like... Isn't that negative? I guess. Well, it's supposed to be positive when somebody thinks about you all day long, but it's not. What do you mean it's supposed to be positive? Well, society teaches us that we want conditional love. Well, unconditional love is the idea. Yes, that's the best. Yes. Well, then why not show them the consequences of their choices if their love is conditional, by doing what it is you need to do so that they can see what result happens from the choices that they're making, so that they can actually be in a relationship with who you actually are instead of who they need you to be. Okay. I'll try that. You have? I will. All right. I haven't. All right. But don't try it. Do it. I'll do it. So the other question I have is, one of my spiritual guides... Yeshua? Define the person that we call Jesus. Oh, you said Yeshua. That's what I meant. I don't know the correct name, only recently heard. Many of you will connect to that particular guide. So if you are attracted to it, then yes, it will respond to you. Yes. And then the other question, because I want to be included in this one: what is the perceptual difference between third density and fourth density? You may not necessarily perceive it in ways that others might, but the idea is you have more increased perception of things that were heretofore invisible to you, more capability of flexibility in space and time, more immediate inspiration and imagination, more opportunities synchronistically will pop up. Eventually you will start acting more like a spirit as a society rather than something quite so physical. These are all symptoms of moving into fourth density: being able to see through the illusion, being able to understand you are the reality, that it's not something you're in, it's within you. Yes, yes. So when the um, double or dual reality that we're living in finally separates far enough, yes. Um, is it, is there a potential for some people that we love to be in a negative reality? Because absolutely, they may disappear from your life if the vibration is no longer compatible enough. All right. Thank you. Does that answer your question? It did. All right. Thank you.

Hello Bashar, and are you good day? Um, my question is... Speak up, speak up. Why is it that when I want to change a bunch of deep-rooted beliefs, I'm always feeling lazy or diverted or not excited enough to start working? Because you have a belief that is diverting you because negative beliefs will prevent you from changing them. It's one of the things that beliefs do in general: they are designed to perpetuate themselves. Negative beliefs will use certain kinds of negative tactics to divert your attention from changing them. That's how they perpetuate themselves. So they will call upon or amplify the beliefs within you that say this is going to be too tough, this is going to take a long time, this is going to be scarier than I want it to be, etc., etc., etc. And that will suddenly allow you to feel as if you really don't have the energy to do such things. But you have to see through that. You have to understand that that's just a trick and a tool of the negative belief preventing you from recognizing that the belief is easy to let go. It has to do those kinds of tricks because it really is easy to let go of them, and it has to make you think that it's not. Therefore it will use any tool, any device that it can to trick you into thinking that it's more difficult than it is. And that's the feeling that you get, or at least one of them. Do you understand? Yeah. But if you know that that's just a product of the belief, if you know that's just smoke and mirrors, it's just a trick, it's just a lie, then you can see through it and you can act through it because if you really do want to let those beliefs go, you can easily by just identifying them and seeing how nonsensical they are. But the first thing you have to realize is that they are just beliefs. It's not a fact that you're lazy. It's just something you have been told to believe is true to prevent you from looking at something that is negative that doesn't want you to let it go. You have to see the trick. Once you see the trick, you'll get fired up. You'll realize that you have every opportunity to discover what that belief is and let it go. You just can't fall prey to the trick. You understand? Yeah. Is this helping you? Yeah. Makes sense. I know that's how things work. This is another description of the nature and structure of your actual physical personality. That's how the personality is structured. You have to believe the belief is really real in order for you to have a physical experience based on that belief. Now, positive beliefs don't have to, let's say, work that hard because they're telling you things that are true about you. But the negative beliefs are not. That's why negative beliefs have to work so hard and have to trick you and have to lie because the only way to convince you that what they're saying is true is to lie to you over and over again and reinforce it with the idea of emotions and thoughts and behaviors because what they're telling you isn't true. So they have to work harder to convince you. They have to use tricks to convince you, whereas the positive beliefs can be completely transparent. Make sense? Yes. So the more you understand how this works and the nature and structure of beliefs, the more you will find it is easy to discover them and let them go because you can see through the illusion. You know that what they're telling you is not a fact. It's just a belief, and beliefs can be changed. I'm working on a phobia that I'm carrying from last 20 years. Do you think it's a bunch of beliefs that are deep-rooted, or it's something else? Again, listen to the way you're framing that. We understand what you mean when you say beliefs are deep-rooted, but the belief wants you to believe it's deep-rooted. It's not a fact. It's an illusion that it's deep-rooted. You are constantly changing yourself. You are constantly a new person. But when you have bought into the idea of what the negative belief is telling you, then the next person you become recreates the belief to create a sense of continuity, and you think you're the same person. You're not. That's an illusion. You can redefine yourself in any way, shape or form you so desire, in any way that you prefer. You do not have to buy into the idea that beliefs are deep-rooted. That's what the belief wants you to believe. It's not a fact. There are only five facts in existence. Number one: you exist. Number two: everything is here and now. Number three: the one is the all, the all are the one. Number four: what you put out is what you get back. Number five: everything changes except those five laws or facts. Everything else is just an opinion, a belief, a perspective, and they can all be changed because they're not facts. They're just conditions, and temporary ones at that. Is this making some sense? Yes. So you have to catch yourself when you hear yourself saying things like, "Well, is it so difficult to let go of these because they're so deep-rooted?" Right there, what you're doing is you're creating a spell. Literally, you're creating a formula, an energetic formula, that makes it difficult, that makes you believe it's a fact that they're deep-rooted. This is false. It's a presentation. It's an illusion. It's an idea. It's a perspective. It's something the negative belief is asking you to buy so that it can perpetuate itself. You just have to learn to understand that and see through it and catch yourself when you say things like that because they're not empirically facts. What you're saying. Does that help? Yes, it does. Thank you. Well, thank you.

Hi Bashar, good to meet you, and to you good day. Um, my question is, um, is there any advice that you could give to people involved in both the animal rights and human rights movements? So activists... Um, who are... Again, you can be in any way, shape or form that you are excited to be active about sharing the idea that you're all one, you're all reflections of one another. Wasn't this said a long time ago? What you do to the least of these, you do to me. Yeah. You understand. Absolutely. So the idea is not to in any way, shape or form preach or put down or judge, but to really explore and examine the idea that the physical world is just a series of reflections and that every single thing in it is actually a reflection of everything else in it from a different point of view. It's like a hall of mirrors, and each mirror shows you a different angle. Now in physical reality, that different angle can actually look like something completely different from the way you look, but that's just the perspective. It's a holographic expression, a holographic experience. And every single thing is a reflection of everything else from another angle. So when someone perpetrates something against another human, animal, tree, rock, doesn't matter, in any way, shape or form that is out of alignment, out of integrity, is a forcing of something in that way without respect, without agreement, without understanding, without balance, without love, they don't believe in the power of what it is they're actually saying or doing anyway because they believe they have to force it on something else. But all they're doing is in a sense interacting with another reflection of themselves and just getting a symbolic feedback of the issues and the fears that they're dealing with. So if you can demystify this for people, really give them the analogies and the pictures and the imaginations that really illustrate this idea that everything is one thing and different reflections of one thing, then they will know that what they do to another they do to themselves because it is themselves from another point of view. Everything is literally one thing. Yeah. That makes a lot of sense, and it absolutely aligns with what I know. And I guess in a way you've already answered it, which is when in situations where I may be witnessing some quite difficult trauma inflicted, um, the question could be as one approach: Who has made you believe you are so powerless that you must do this to another reflection of yourself? Yeah, yes. That's very powerful. Yeah, yes, it is. Yeah. And when you start engaging people in that kind of a dialogue, if they're willing to listen (which not everyone will be), but if they're willing to listen, then you have made some progress in injecting the idea inside their belief system. Yeah. So just one last thing on that, because you made the point of not everybody will be willing to listen, and I agree with that. And absolutely, preaching in any form never works. I understand that for myself. So in a situation, for example, where an animal is being hurt, yes, unnecessarily in quite brutal ways... Abused. Abused. Thank you. I wasn't sure if I was allowed to use that word because you know, try to say challenge instead of difficulty and that kind of thing. I understand. But nevertheless, it clearly defines what it is you perceive as happening. That's right. Because what it is, is self-abuse. It's the result of self-abuse. It's the result of being abused. It takes a victim to make a victim. Absolutely. It takes an abused to become an abuser. Yeah, yes, absolutely. So you can see the symbology in that and perhaps allow yourself to help them find their own true self-empowerment because when someone is truly self-empowered, they understand that they don't have to force anything on anyone. They don't have to be an abuser. That is a statement of fear, of lack of empowerment. Yeah. So my final part in that is, how in that split second moment, just your advice if there is any, could you stand and give that information if it's not able to be heard when it's hard to walk away? Well, you don't have to necessarily walk away, do you? No. That's what I... Yeah, you can get involved. Yeah, yes, yeah. Absolutely. You can in that sense take the side of the one being abused and simply say, "Stop." Yeah. And then if it is something that can be done, allow yourself to express the idea that if they're truly attempting to feel powerful, this isn't the way to do it. That this is an expression of lack of power. And the idea is to teach them that the greatest power requires the gentlest touch. Yeah, yes. Because if it is powerful, why would it have to try so hard? Yes, yes. Yeah. Correct. That's why the greatest power of all, All That Is, is all but invisible to you because it is everything. Yes, yes. It doesn't have to try to force anything on anyone. The concept of God's will is a misunderstanding. Yeah, great. If something is everything, why would it need to exert any kind of will over it? Yes, yes. Because it is everything. So everything that it's experiencing itself to be is exactly what it prefers to experience because it can always experience anything and everything that it is. So why would it have to change one thing from doing something else in that sense? Yeah. But on the level that you're talking about, you can create more harmony, you can create more self-empowerment, you can create more flow. And that experience in and of itself is part of All That Is experiencing itself in a process. Yes, yes. Yeah. Great. That's very helpful. Is this helping? Very, very helpful. Yeah. One moment. Compassion, really allowing the person to know that you actually care about them, that you actually know they are a powerful being, that you can see that they have not necessarily been given the tools or the perspective to know that, yeah, but that you know that you believe in them, you know they are powerful, yeah, and that you are happy to share how they can stop feeling so scared, so miserable. Because again, you know that those that express themselves that way are terrified. Yes, yes. And that's why they lash out. They're trying to control things. But that's not control. That's just the way they've been taught to believe that control is. But you can help teach them what true power is. Yes, yes. Yes. Because it takes no power to destroy. Anyone can destroy. Yeah. It takes real power to build, to create. Yes, yes. All right. Does that help? Very much. Thank you very much. Thank you.

Hi Bashar, and you. Much love. And to you as well. A couple of questions for you: one is based in religion and the other in science and medicine and innovation. So with regards to religion, some of the major leaders could you expand or expound a little bit on Moses? What does Moses have to do with religion? I guess I'm asking you that. He was a major leader that was a figure with in the Old Testament. We understand who you're referring to, but the way we ask that question should be very revealing to you because Moses doesn't have to have anything at all to do with religion to be a great teacher. Yes, correct. And this is true of most of what you would call or recognize as masters. Most of them had no intention of creating a religion. You understand? Yes. It was about helping others recognize that they are as powerful as the teacher, teaching that everyone is, or at least has the capacity and potential to be the same, to have the same understandings and perspectives, to elevate themselves. Yes, yes. That all can be masters, all can be teachers. Yes. Therefore, the misinterpretation of this and the idea that there needs to be somebody in between you and your connection to creation in order to interpret that connection for you is what religion is. But with your own connection and knowing that you are self-empowered, that you are in every way equal to the idea (at least potentially) of any of the ascended masters, then you don't necessarily need to express that through the concept of religion unless that's simply a permission slip that works for you. Got it. Does that help? Yes. And I've heard about permission slips a lot. It's very... And by the way, yes. If it hadn't been for the fact that an extraterrestrial society referred to as the Anunnaki hadn't used their genetic material to create the idea of Homo sapiens from the natural hominid that evolved on your planet and created Homo sapiens at that time to be someone who should look up to them as superior, if that hadn't happened, it is unlikely you would ever have developed religion on your planet. That was my next question. Well, I've already answered it. All right. So in relation to the potential of the future, yes, and I know probabilities and potentials are always a part of the future, yes. It um, and I come from a place of innovation in healthcare and I'm just interested in some possibilities within neuroscience, neurology, cancer, genetics, yes, within the next 50 to 60 years in terms of innovation. Well, you are finding out more and more that it's all about vibration, it's all about resonance, it's all about states of being. That if you can find the vibrational equation that represents a certain state of being and you can impose that vibrational frequency on something that is out of alignment with that state of being in a specific way, you can bring it back into alignment with that state of being, which will cause a transformation to take place within that thing. Yes, yes. That's the basis for all you're talking about. That's the fundamental principle behind everything that you just asked about. So on a really pragmatic level, if somebody's really sick with heart failure or heart disease, how do they get back into alignment? Again, they can, depending upon the reason for the creation of that experience, because not everyone will necessarily need or want to be healed. You follow me? Because they may be creating that experience for a very specific reason that they need to go through or that someone else close to them needs to experience. So you have to look at it first on a case-by-case, person-by-person basis as to why that's happening. But if there is within their choices the probability of allowing them to heal themselves, then the idea can be that you need to chart and measure what the natural healed vibration of that particular being would be or that particular organ would be. And then imposing that vibration in a specific way at a specific frequency into that area can either allow the tissue to regenerate back to that vibrational state that represents the healed state, or at the very least may cause certain inspirations within you if you need to go through a process to create the process that is necessary to bring that organ back to a healed state by just simply immersing in that vibration that represents the healed state of that organ. Very cool. Thank you. Very interesting. Does that help you? That helps a lot. Yeah. Um, there is also a technique that was used in Atlantean times that is kind of akin to the concept of hypnosis because in hypnosis you can actually be unlocked from a particular reality idea and you can be induced into another reality idea. More exploration on the concept of what you now presently referred to as multiple personality disorder may be important here because there already have been measurements of different personalities having completely different physical states. Yes. One personality can actually have a disease, but when it shifts to the other personality, there's no sign of the disease. Yes. There are case studies. When you can really understand what's going on there, you'll have your answer. Yes. Because they are actually, regardless of whether it looks like it's the same body, the same person, they are actually two different people. Yes. Okay. That's... and there are always alternate and parallel versions of everyone. Yes, yes. Somewhere there must be a parallel version of a person with a disease that doesn't have it. All right. Finding that vibration and inducing them to follow and match that frequency will allow them to become that version of themselves that not only doesn't have the disease but never did because it's not in their history. The new person that they're becoming. Yes. Making sense? Mhm. Yes. This is a way to use parallel realities as a healing technique. Then that to some degree is the future of medicine. Thanks. You're welcome. Appreciate it.

Hello Bashar, and to you good day. I have two questions. Yes. Al-Qaeda, yes. Boko Haram, Al-Shabaab, and Islamic State. Is there... is there a message or a commonality of and maybe just explain kind of what's going on? We don't always get the right, uh, the news stories or the right... There are several things again in terms of the expression that would be the negative side. There is, as we have already been discussing, a lot of fear-based beliefs, a lot of sense of being attacked, a lot of sense of diminishment, a lot of sense of lack of self-empowerment. So there is a lot of fear that reveals itself in the lashing out that is done. Yes. Yes. Does that answer your question sufficiently, or is there something else you wish to understand? So there's fear on the part of the organizations like the Islamic State or Al-Shabaab? Of course. Again, as we have already explained, the greatest power requires the gentlest touch. If anyone has to force an idea, an ideology, a perspective on anyone else, what they're saying is they don't believe in the power of that idea because if it really was a powerful idea, why wouldn't everyone gravitate to it because everyone wants to feel powerful? Yes, yes. So if an idea is not being gravitated to yet, and someone believes that it should be and forces others to do so, they don't believe in its power either. Yes. Right. Okay. Thank you. And the second question is, in your world, what kind of leaders or do you have leaders, and how are they chosen, and what is their role? No, no, no, no. As we have described, we function on synchronism, pure synchronicity. Everyone is exactly where they need to be exactly when they need to be there just by following their highest passion. Now, there are individuals who may choose themselves to be organizers of sorts to help facilitate an amplification of synchronism in many ways to ensure that things are running smoothly that way. But they're not in that sense leaders. We have no government in the way that you choose to express that idea because everything functions synchronistically. We understand the mechanism of synchronism, and we use it. And therefore, the lead, if you want to call it that, is synchronism itself. It is the structure of existence itself that we simply take advantage of. Yes, yes. Does that make sense to you? Yes, it does. Does that answer your question? Yes. Was there something else? Well, I wanted to ask a little bit about the pyramids. So which ones? Since there are so many pyramids in Egypt and in Asia, is there also an error of when those were built, like for a certain global meaning? When they were built... The oldest ones? Yes. Approximately 10,500 BC as you call it. And they had great understanding of what they were doing. Then the knowledge was lost over time, and a lot of the later pyramids do not function in the same way that the earlier ones did. The Great Pyramid of Giza served many different kinds of functions when it was operational in its pristine state, not the least of which was that initiate priests, when brought into the understandings of the mysteries of creation, would be led into the King's Chamber and would lie down in the stone coffer. And they would be taught to generate the gamma state in a meditation. And the stone coffer and the King's Chamber was designed to amplify and magnify that gamma state to the point where it reverberated and amplified and amplified and then suddenly popped them out of their bodies so that in astral form they could go to higher realms, gain knowledge, bring it back, and share that knowledge with society. Although, of course, the priesthood usually kept those things to themselves as to how they achieved that knowledge. They would just simply dole it out as they needed to. You follow? Mhm. Does that answer your question? So could we do the same thing if we went into the pyramid? Well, yes, to some degree. Although again, there has been some deterioration over time, so it's not really functioning at peak performance. But yes, it could be used as a permission slip if you yourself add to it all the things that are missing in your own energy field. Does that make sense? Yes. Use your own energy field to add the things that are now missing, and you could achieve the same effect, yes, as a permission slip. Of course, you don't need the pyramid to do that necessarily. MH. But you can take advantage of that if you wish. It's up to you. Okay. Good. Yes. Yes. Thank you. Thank you.

Hey Bashar, and are you good day? So last session I had talked to you about a dream that I had about reptilian-human sexual contact. Yes. So um, elaborating more on that, um, was that an actual experience that I was having or... yes. It um, because I also got a connection with my subconscious mind that it also um, was connecting me more deeply with my subconscious mind, bringing consciousness into the subconscious? Well, bringing the subconscious into the conscious. Oh yes. Bringing the subconscious into the conscious. Yes. Okay. Although you are also correct in the other direction because many of you think that the subconscious and unconscious are lower than your physical conscious mind, but they're not. They're higher. The physical mind is the lowest level. The conscious mind is the lowest level. Subconscious is above that. Unconscious above that because you're going toward the idea of the higher mind. Yes, yes. So I also got the connection of the reptilians and the Anunnaki. Um, and I was wondering if I got an inspiration that there's an alternate timeline where humans were created not to mine gold. Yes. Of course. Yes. Anything you can imagine in general is somewhere a reality. You can't imagine non-existence, right? So there's an alternate timeline where we were not created to look up to them, that we were created as equals. And that to some degree is where you're shifting to. Yes. That is so exciting! Yes, it is. Um, also along the line of the subconscious mind, was the Sphinx Anubis at one time? Anubis? Yes. Anubis. It was the jackal. The jackal, not a lion. It was the jackal, the god of the underworld, right. So to speak. That's really awesome. Yay! Does that help? Yes. Uh, one more thing, yes. Um, or actually two more. Does Anubis and your father, do they have similar energies? They do. Thank you for picking up on that. Yeah, I actually thought maybe it was your dad, but I just... they resonated so strongly. Yes, there is an energetic connection. It's not that Anubis is my father, right. But my father does have a very strong connection to the archetypal level consciousness that you know in your reality as Anubis. Yes. Um, yeah, with all the hybridization going on, I mean, we just have so much inside of us that doesn't usually look that doesn't represent our physicality. Yes. Um, so there's a lot more going on in your world than you are aware of. Right. And then one more thing, uh, thank you. Um, my alternate incarnation in Essani? One of them. Thank you. Um, is it at the same time that you're there partially? There's an overlap. Hello. Yay! That's all right. Hello. I mean, hello in my alternate incarnation and hello right now as a thank you. Um, also I want to say hello to CBO and tell him thank you because as you have, he also has had a very positive impact in my life, and I want to thank him for that and you. All right. Well, thank you for creating the positive impact in your own life. Yeah. Well, thank you. Thank you so much. You are welcome. So much.

Hello Bashar, how do you good day? Happy birthday yesterday. All right. Thank you. What did you do? Anything I wanted, which I do every day anyway. Okay. Can we hunger out for... celebrate on your birthday? Can you what? Party. You can have whatever party you wish. Okay. Thank you. I'm not stopping you. Okay. With you? Well, not with me physically. Okay. All right. Um, but if you want to create a party, go right ahead. Okay. Thank you. And I have a question about my sleeping habit. Your sleeping habits? Mhm. As opposed to your natural cycle. My natural cycle is too opposite from the social. So very opposite. Like so... So what? Why aren't you following your natural sleep cycle? Okay. Natural sleep cycle is most times 2 to 5:00 a.m., 6:00 a.m. I'm waking up. Yes. Well, if you follow your excitement and express the things that are representative of your excitement, they will most likely fall into your natural sleep cycle instead of forcing yourself to do things that are not necessarily representative of your excitement that force you to have an unnatural sleep cycle. Okay. Do you understand? It's up to you. Right. But it's more harmonious to follow your natural cycle and do the things in your life that would then fall into place in your natural cycle. Right. It's like it's not really bother like used to be, but still sometimes when I think about, oh I couldn't make this, I couldn't make this because I don't like waking up in the morning. I don't know, like you're just creating excuses. Mhm. Are you acting on your highest excitement every moment that you possibly can? Yes or no? Yes. You are? Are you sure? Yes. Doesn't sound like it, because you just said you were not following your natural sleep cycle. Wouldn't that be more exciting to be able to follow your natural cycle? Yes, yes, yes. Then when I ask you if you're following your excitement and you said yes, you were fibbing. Okay. So stop fibbing and follow your excitement. Part of which is your natural sleep cycle. And when you do that, opportunities may come to you in that cycle that will be representative of things you can do that will fall into that natural cycle. You don't have to force yourself to do things and have a sleep cycle that is not natural for you because that will make you tired. Right. It will exhaust you. It will not really refresh you. You may be able to endure it for a while, but it won't really energize you. Following your natural cycle will energize you and will bring you synchronistically the things that you can do that will fit the cycle. Remember, you can't experience what you're not the vibration of first. So you have to be natural first in order for synchronicity to present to you opportunities that would fit within the natural cycle. Otherwise, you can't see them. They'll be invisible to you, those opportunities. Do you understand? Yes. Very totally. Thank you. And yes, and you did tell us Fair Tax because it's closest from Oakland. How about in Japan and Las Vegas? Well, that's up to the people in the area. Now, your Las Vegas is still part of your United States, which is exploring the idea of the Fair Tax. Japan obviously is a different culture, but you can create something similar if you wish. It's up to you. We're simply saying that at the moment, that is the most aligned representation for what it is based on the economic structure you have for what it is that would best avail the health of the economic structure. We're not saying that this is the ideal scenario. Ultimately, you will go through many different transitions with regard to the economics of your world, and you'll have many different ways of expressing that idea. The idea simply right now is that as you have designed your economic structure, the Fair Tax is the one that is most aligned for the growth and natural health of that economic structure at this moment. Okay. Does that help? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. I have one more question. I beg your pardon. I have one more question. Yes. I had a dream two weeks ago about Mount Shasta. Yes. And I still remember how he looks like: white skin, brown hair, and a little ugly face. And like right after I woke up, I realized he was like a gatekeeper for Mount Shasta in some senses. Yes. Although that's a slight interpretation in human terms. But nevertheless, is that someplace you're attracted to go and explore? Yes. When will you go? Um, this Sunday night. Oh, all right. Have a good time. Okay. And pleasant dreams. Thank you.

Hi Bashar, and are you good day? I have a question to you about doing and being. And over the last 5 years I've been trying to make a transition from my career that I've created for myself. Um, I went into nursing school, yes, and found out that the current situation of nursing is not with what I'm aligned with. All right. What are you aligned with? Well, that's what I've been pursuing in my education. I wanted to take advantage of my RN by teaching people how to take care of their bodies, to nutrition and lifestyle choices. And that's exciting for you? It's exceptionally exciting for me. All right. So that's what you're doing. Yes, yes. My question though has to do with doing and being. What's the difference? Because I am... What's the difference in your definition? Doing is like you got to do, do, do. I've got this list of tasks that I have to complete in order to accomplish what it is I'm wanting. And being is feels more in alignment with what you were talking about in terms of if you are in the state of being that is appropriate for you, harmonious and in alignment with your true frequency, the things that you need to do will also align with your state of being and will not need or require effort so much as you will simply take the natural actions that are the natural flowing result of being in that state. So it won't necessarily have to be a list of tasks that you have to do, do, do. There may be some of them. But remember that synchronicity is the organizing principle. Yes, yes. And if it is the organizing principle, which it is, then by acting on your excitement, the things that come with the highest excitement in whatever order that they come are the things that need doing. But you will do them from a state of being that allows them to also be exciting actions. And it will not be more than you need to do. It will regulate itself in order, in timing, in everything in such a way as to show you exactly what needs to be done and when, and no more than that will be needed. Does this help? Are you understanding this concept? It does. Yes. In translating it in my life has been the challenge because I've been applying what you talk about. It's like, but you're not... that's the point. You're not quite. You're still allowing outdated definitions to create a sense within you that more needs to be done than may need to be done. You're not letting synchronicity show you what needs to be done. You're making an assumption of what you need to do. Yes, I guess so. You guess or you know? So it's just, I feel like I'm doing okay. So I don't... I'm not getting paid. Let's take it to a specific level. Mhm. To help illustrate the point. Can you describe the idea now? You're doing what excites you. Yes. Mhm. Can you describe the idea of this list of tasks and how you create that? Okay. I'm working with... okay, I have three people that I work with, yes. And when I work with them, it really elicits that feeling of excitement. I love it. They're making changes. We all are really excited. And so okay, so where does the list... there's this on this side over here and then there's what I've been doing for work over here. And I'm trying to make the leap of... see, these people aren't paying me. I'm doing it to elicit that feeling of excitement. But I haven't, like, to get out and to market what I'm doing requires time. So there's more things that I have to do. So what? Why isn't that part of your excitement? Because it's one more thing that I have to do with all one more thing. If you were doing it in the way that is exciting for you, it would be one more thing you wouldn't be able to wait to do. You're not doing it in alignment with excitement. That's what we're saying. You're making those things look like tasks, defining them as something other than your excitement. If those things actually need to be done, there is a way to do them that is part and parcel of your excitement, and you're not doing them that way. That's why they feel like they don't belong. That's why they feel like tasks because you're using old definitions about the way you're going about doing those things or think that you have to go about doing those things and making them non-exciting when you could be inventing ways to do the things that need to be done in more exciting ways by using your imagination and not just assuming there's only one way to do these things to get the word out, to market yourself. You're limiting your imagination with these definitions that limit you. Yes, yes. Can we use your imagination to come up with something, as you would say in your language, out of the box to advertise and market yourself in a way that would be more exciting for you? Will you allow your imagination the free reign to do that, or are you going to keep it in a box? I will take it out of the box. All right. So now open up your imagination. And now comes the idea of I'm excited to market myself, to get the word out that I'm doing this. That is exciting. Yes. Just getting the word out, is that exciting? Relating to people is exciting to me. And then it naturally flows from me when I do that. So yes, that is exciting. So first question, why isn't that enough? Because I'm still compressing my vision around that. I've got to work this amount of hours per week to make enough money, and then when I get home I'm dead tired, and I'm like... Then why don't you charge more? I have been. I've jumped up my rates a lot. Do you feel good or bad about doing that? I feel fine about it. But I kind of feel like I've reached the ceiling for what I'm doing, and now I'm trying to make the leap over to what I'm wanting to be truly doing. But you keep going back and forth here. Keep going back and forth between two completely different ideas. I know that's what I'm living is two completely different ideas. But... Stop. That's what we're saying. Why aren't you just living your excitement? Don't you believe it can support you? I do. But it's like no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You're already in trouble when that question is asked. Anything other than yes is a no. Do you understand? Because if you really knew that it would support you, you would simply say yes. I know that. You would know it. So here's the crux. Here's the issue. You don't know that it can support you. You're not sure. You don't believe it. That's where you need to focus. Okay. Yes, yes. What are you afraid of? Why don't you believe that what really excites you can support you? Because of the complexity of relationship and talking about money and how is... I'm bringing that into the dynamics of a relationship and saying... I mean, what are you saying? Just is this another way of saying that you don't like to charge for your services? No, no, no, no. What are you saying? I'm saying that I have to make money to support my family and myself. I understand. And you do understand that the definition of abundance is larger than just money? Yes, yes, I do. Are you sure? I'm yes. All right. So why don't you believe that what excites you can support you in the way you need to be supported to continue to act on your excitement? Because that's one of the tools in the kit. You know, yeah, that it supports you to allow you to continue to do your excitement in whatever way you need to be supported, not the way you may think you need to be supported, in the way you need to be supported. Hm, yes, yes. Big difference. So are you afraid that your excitement can't support you? Yes or no? Hesitation? No, no, no, no. It's just like this. It's like jumping off a cliff. Exactly. And I would encourage you not to do so if you don't know that you have a parachute. So what you're saying is you're holding on to old beliefs that you believe you need old things that you believe you need for support. And that's fine as long as you are at least allowing yourself to do the things that excite you to some degree. It can over time demonstrate to you, prove to you, that it can support you. The question is, how long are you willing to wait? Well, my goal is to start at the beginning of the year. I kind of feel like the end of the... But are you afraid? I'm excited and afraid. I mean, I am excited. Well, which is it? I'm... Yes. They're not the same thing. It's, they're mixed. They're together. No, you go back and forth is what you do. You're like a little ping-pong ball. Exactly. So you are excited sometimes, you're afraid other times. So in the meantime, use that process. Find the things that you're afraid of. Find the beliefs that generate the fear. Identify them. Let them go. That's your task right now. So that when you clear yourself out, you will just be excited and you will know it can support you. Yes, yes. Does that help? It helps tremendously. Are you a little bit more excited now? I'm a lot more excited. Oh, all right. Thank you. Thank you.

Hello. Is it time for Cosmic News Network? It is. Okay. Back to the election now? Not yet. You have more news. Uh, I think we have about 10 minutes. I didn't ask you that, did I? I'm not going to tell you. Oh, all right. This is Cosmic News Network signing off. No, no, no, no, no. What time is it? Yeah, 'cause some people ask questions that we weren't... What time is it? 3:30. Can we have 10 minutes? Thank you for asking. I did. Did you? No, you told me no, no, no, no. Somebody help me here. I don't want to get into trouble with you too. Late. Please proceed. Okay. Um, Trump appears to be a bit dumbfounded by having his bluff called. Is there... Well, it's very rare that someone is smart founded. So is there a chance that the seriousness of this sinks in and makes him a better person? There's a chance. What are the odds? Even because of that narcissistic... It's too soon to tell. It's still too fresh. Remember that you're not the only ones in shock. Yeah, he's in shock too. Right. With the new president, do we have a better chance of avoiding the economic collapse that was predicted or the major economic devaluation? You do have better odds in certain ways. Yes. And the risk of a terrorist incident? Still pending. But we'll see. There are moves that need to be made first that will tell us more, that have to do, as you already know, with Jerusalem. Yes. In fact, Trump said that they were talking about moving the capital of Israel to Jerusalem, yes. And that will start something moving. But we'll see. There are other pathways through it other than a terrorist attack. But we'll see. It's too soon to tell. Um, one person wanted to know if the shift to the parallel Earth will contain any Republicans in the sense that there will be an interim period where it will be more representative of the original Republic, then yes. But not in the way that they exist now. So as the parallel realities get farther and farther apart, will literally you stop seeing at some point the people who are of opposing viewpoints? Yes, eventually. But that's not like for a long time, right? Long is relative. Some people may see it in their lifetime. Others may see it in a generation or two. Depends on how they're looking, depends on their perspective, depends on their process, depends on how long they may need something of opposition to hang around as a reflection. Depends.

This was a really cool one. This one says the first day Trump takes office is January 21, 2017, and Trump will be 70 years old, 7 months, and 7 days that day. There you go. What does that tell you? Lucky seven. That it's not an accident. Um, and with all these protests, what are some of the benefits of all the protests that are happening? Well, again, certainly you can see that there are different reality perspectives here now. Of course, the lashing out is not necessarily constructive, but the protest demonstrates in general that there are truly different realities here. You're beginning to recognize that it's actually being shown to you that there are different realities side by side. Is there any chance that the Electoral College will not support Trump? Not much of a chance that it will not. But you may find that within about 15 to 20 of your years, there will no longer be an electoral college. That's got a higher probability. Yeah. There were definitely some people who wanted to know that. Um, will let's see. Um, what if Donald Trump implements unjust laws like discrimination and things like that? What is the appropriate way to respond to things like that? Compassion. And does that mean that you should break the law or should you follow that law, or how does that work? We cannot advise you on that. Right. Because we never advise you to break a law. But we understand the idea that sometimes what you would call a, quote unquote, "just rebellion" may require it. But we cannot be engaged in your politics to that degree to advise you on that one way or the other. Okay. And then lastly, um, what percentage of Earth's population contributed genetically to the hybridization program? About 15%. And so of the people in this room, what percentage of these people are involved in the hybridization program? About 75%. And um, do you know what happened to Napoleon when he was inside the Great Pyramid in Egypt? He had a vision. Do you know what his vision was? He actually had a vision of his defeat and sought to see if it could be changed because he stumbled into a vibration that represented a parallel timeline. He understood there were other options but did not really understand the amount of momentum that was behind the timeline he had already established for himself. That's interesting. Okay. And lastly, for those of us who are joining us in Europe and are quite concerned about what's happening in Europe, that there's, you know, there's a lot of antagonism around the refugees coming into their country and that it seems like the immigration issue is a big one here too. Yes. And so they were wondering what you could share with us about this mirror reflection that's happening in both locations and what is the best way to approach the whole situation at this time. That is a subject that we would need to spend more time on and will not address it at present. Okay. So but in terms of the people in Europe, feeling staying calm, I guess, with all the change? Absolutely. It's the same ideas that we've had here. Yes. Which is that you find a positive way to find the path through it. Now that all bets are off, you have the opportunity to start crystallizing a reality of your preference in a variety of ways by acting on your passion because now everything is unlocked. Now you don't have to rely on what's expected. The unexpected has now reared its head so strongly that you are truly unlocked from the idea of any expectation other than those that are truly relevant. So allow yourself to take advantage of this limbo state by understanding there is very little now restricting you from crystallizing the reality that you prefer. Okay. Well, thank you. Thank you for that update from the Cosmic News Network. It is our pleasure. And since you're in charge, what would you like to do now? We would be very excited for all of you to take a short break and then we will resume the transmission with your holotope experience. Okay.

So we'd really like to thank you all for coming. This is the last part of the session today where we will enjoy the holotope experience. And the holotope was developed by Randall Font and Kirby Seed. And Kirby is also the person who helped to put this event on up here in Oakland and has provided the gorgeous crystals that you see up on stage as well as many in the back. So I'd like to ask you to please stand, Kirby, because we so appreciate this. This is a holotope. So let me move over here, and we have a little surprise after Darryl goes into the altered state. So I will just turn this over to you and you can share what... okay.

Yeah, Bashar's not the only one who has surprises, you know. Now I'm scared. Thank you all.

All right, let us say we will resume the transmission. Hello. Hello. Niia, we have a little surprise for you. Oh, all right. In honor of this being your birthday, well, sort of yesterday. Yesterday, 11/11. And so we did want to wish you a very happy birthday, and in fact we have a little gift for you. Oh, all right. Thank you. It's a bouquet of flowers. Oh, all right. A wide variety, like all of you. And it's just our special way of saying thank you for all the wonderful things that you bring into our lives as well as the expansion of consciousness, and plus you're just really funny. All right. Well, thank you. Yeah. And we'd like to sing Happy Birthday to you. So if we might start.

Happy birthday to you, happy birthday to you, happy birthday dear Bashar, happy birthday to you.

We thank you, Niia. We thank you all. We will never blow out your candles, so they may always burn bright. And we remind each and every one of you that it is called the birthday present. So if you want to constantly allow yourself to know that you are reborn, please remain in the present. So thank you for the beautifully illustrated reminder of the concept, and thank you for adding more colors to our garden. Thank you, Niia. We love you, Bashar. Our unconditional love to you all. And we ask you all now to become very comfortable in your seats and allow yourselves to focus on the holotope in front of you with eyes open (closed if you wish, but eyes open is all right) for it is a reflective mirror. And it will be the mirror that will allow us to journey together at this time into a different reality. So as your lights change and shift, as your music rises, allow yourself to breathe easily, gently, and deeply. And relax and let go of all the cares, all the concerns, all the fear, all the worries, for they do not serve you. And they are not bags that you need to carry on this journey. You have everything you need with you.

As you gaze and breathe at the holotope, allow yourself to see that it symbolizes all of the infinite probable paths that you could take, each of which is going to be representative of someone's harmonious, aligned path of least resistance in the splitting into the multiple parallel realities that represent the world that you prefer. Allow yourselves to simply gaze and allow the play of light and sound into your eyes and ears and allow it to rewire your neurological net within your brains and within your body to be more open to receiving the information, the insight, the imagination, and inspiration that you require to allow you more capability and more opportunity to see the big picture of all changes that may occur in your reality so that you may understand that there is always an opportunity for you to use these events in whatever way you so desire to allow them to unlock you from the realities you no longer prefer and to open up the infinite probabilities of the realities that you do prefer.

Allow yourselves now to breathe easily and gently and take a deep, deep breath in and let it out. And take a deep, deep, deep breath in and let it out. And take a deep, deep, deep, deep breath in and hold it, and hold it, and hold it, and blow it out. And as you do, you blow away all of the negative feelings, perspectives, cares, and concerns that may have bubbled to the surface from the negative beliefs and resistances, outdated and old-fashioned ideas that you may have held on to but now are willing to let go of because you are beginning to truly realize that you can now use this momentum. The shock wave can be ridden. The rapids can be navigated. You can maintain your balance and you can use this energy to accelerate you through this process in whatever way works best for you, with whatever tools work best for you, to allow yourself to arrive eventually more quickly in the placid lake that awaits you of the reality that you prefer, the peaceful, harmonious, loving realm of light and possibility.

Allow yourselves to continue to breathe in that reality. Allow yourselves to feel at ease because it is, as we have said many times, not about the circumstances themselves but your response to them that makes all the difference in the world that you prefer to create, in the experience in which you prefer to live. Allow yourselves to drift and dream along the current that carries you effortlessly down this stream and allows you to remain upright and buoyant and balanced with any rapids you may encounter so that your passage through them will be one of adventure, one of excitement, one of courage, one of discovery, one of infinite probabilities, one where you discover more and more of who you truly are, one where you live to the fullest in every sense and with every sense, capturing every sight and sound and smell, every idea and inspiration coming to you automatically and magically in this new reality stream that you are co-creating together right now so that you know you are never alone, but there are always those that guide you, there are always those that support you, there are always those that love you.

Allow yourself to breathe this in gently and easily and make this truth your own. Allow yourselves to gaze at the reflected mirror of the holotope as it represents the infinite probable paths and infinite probable realities so that it may spin before you and so that you may be the ball that drops into the proper slot that is the equivalent and harmonious with the vibration of your preferred state of being. Allow yourselves to flow downstream through the current, and it takes you where and well it will. And knowing that you will arrive exactly and perfectly where you need to be and when you need to be there. There is no cause for alarm, there is no cause for panic, for these things shall only weld you to the realities that you do not prefer. Allow yourself to break free from the status quo. Allow yourself to drift in the unknown. Allow yourself to take advantage of the fact that now everything is up for grabs and all bets are off. It is now to your benefit that you have entered terra incognita, that you do not know these lands, that they are uncharted waters before you, for now you can set sail in the direction that you choose, in the direction that you prefer, for there is nothing in your way, there is nothing restricting you, there is nothing limiting you, and the wind is filling your sails. Allow yourself to navigate by the stars, by the wind, by your senses, by the infinite horizon before you. And allow yourself to drift and dream on this new adventure, this new awakening, this new opening, this new challenge. Allow yourself to know that you will discover everything you need to know about yourself on this new journey and that this is the true splitting of various probable realities and that you will then stand upon the precipice of the one that will lead you, guide you on the path of least resistance to your truth, your true self, your true reflection, the fulfillment of the dream and the aspect of All That Is expressing itself in all the ways that it can through you.

As you allow yourself to take a deep breath in and let it out. Allow yourself to take a deep breath in and let it out. Allow yourself to take a deep breath in and hold it and hold it and hold it and blow it out. And hear the wind tickling the chimes and the bells that ring out that guide you unerringly toward your new destination, which is the true you, the true vibration, your stronghold, your indestructible core of being so that nothing phases you outside because you know the outside is a game, is a play, is an illusion. And it is how you respond that makes all the difference and is proof of change, for you can respond positively to any event no matter how it appears, even though you are still capable of recognizing the difference between what you do and don't prefer, capable of neutrally observing what is positive and what is negative, allowing yourself then the opportunity to choose what you prefer because you do not invalidate what you do not prefer, so that you allow all things to be equal. And in being so equal, there is no tug upon you to go any way other than the way you prefer to go. You choose to go, and you find yourself drifting in that direction, following the current of creation back to source, back to yourself, back to All That Is.

You are all one. You are all connected. You are all reflections of one another. Fear not. Be yourselves. Give validation to the infinite diversity among you, even in those with whom you do not agree. Allow the diversity to exist, for without the darkness there is no light. Allow yourself to validate all that is in all the ways it expresses itself so that it can express itself more fully through you as an aspect of All That Is. Allow your selves now to drift and dream. Drift and dream. Drift and dream. Continue to breathe easily, gently, warmly, lovingly, nurturing yourself, supporting yourself as creation supports and nurtures you. For you deserve the unconditional love of All That Is, which is constantly coming to you and to which you only have to pay attention to know that it is there always and forever.

Allow yourselves now, as your music softens and your lights dim, to sit in solitude and quietness, in the silence of the stars, in the infinite void that is contained within you. Drift in this dream. Drift in this dream and crystallize that dream that represents your preferred reality, that symbolizes the truth of the vibration that you are. Drift and dream. Drift and dream. And remember, each and every moment you are a new person reborn. It is always your birthday. You are always renewed. And it is up to you to determine and decide what is true for you.

