---
heading: Part 4
title: "Masks"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2015-06-19
icon: Bashar
weight: 348
showdate: true
---



### **Q&A Session 12: Heart Bubbles and Unconditional Love**

**Asker:** I want to talk about um, heart bubbles, energies that HS put out, the electric um, impulses that hearts are giving off.

**Bashar:** Yes. The electromagnetic bubbles given off with every beat of your heart to travel at the speed of light, and therefore you're all immersed in everyone else's heart bubble energy.
**Asker:** my father died of heart disease.

**Questioner:** And was that... did that have anything to do with his blocking that energy?
**Bashar:** Not so much blocking as filtering. You understand? Out of alignment. Discordant resonance. The heart bubble energy that everyone is immersed in was filtered in such a way as to be more out of alignment because of the belief systems in that personality through which he was filtering that energy. So it threw them out of whack, out of alignment, and caused a discordant resonance to vibrate within the body and within the heart.


**Questioner:** how does one avoid such?

**Bashar:** By clearing out your negative belief systems. And this is following your excitement. Yes. Because your excitement will reveal to you any beliefs that are out of alignment with it, so that you can deal with them and identify them and let them go. There are many techniques you can use, but following your excitement will be one of the fastest.

**Questioner:** And then a previous person asked, um, you know, the blockages of following your excitement, and you said, "What are those?" And some of them are monetary or relationships.
**Bashar:** Yes. There are many different kinds of negative beliefs and relationships to things that people on your planet have that are handled in a negative way. But I mean with other people. So if you have a feeling of an excitement that you... yes... is going to affect a relationship with a loved one...

**Questioner:** Yes. Then there's a conflict there. And how?

**Bashar:** No. Your definition is creating a conflict. If you actually are acting on your highest excitement—truly, if you really are, and not just disguising anxiety as excitement (remember, this takes honest self-examination and the ability to discern the difference between actual excitement and anxiety being disguised as excitement)—but if you're really, really in alignment truly with your highest excitement, that is the most loving thing you can do for anyone, because you're being yourself. And then they know who they're in a relationship with. And if they don't prefer to be in a relationship with someone being their true self, then you've learned a lesson, and you can lovingly let them on their way to find out whoever it is they would rather be interacting with. Yes. There's no conflict there. You're doing the most loving thing by being yourself, because then you give people the opportunity to decide whether they actually want to interact with you or not. Yes. Is this making some sense?

**Questioner:** Yes. It does. Yes. Unfortunately, it's hard.

**Bashar:** Why is that unfortunate?

**Questioner:** Well, it's... it's like you say, it uh, requires...
**Bashar:** But remember that by being yourself, you also give other people the opportunity to match the frequency, should they so desire. But that doesn't mean they have to. Remember, we're talking about unconditional love.

**Questioner:** Yeah. Yes. If it's unconditional love...
**Bashar:** Yeah. Yes. If it's conditional, it's not love. So the phrase "unconditional love" is actually redundant, because love is unconditional. Anything else isn't love. It's some interpretation, some symbol, some representation, some half-measure.



### **Q&A Session 13: Healing Acne and Taking Action**

**Questioner:** All. Hi Bashar, and are you good day? I am so grateful that you're here with me right now. You've been one of the greatest inspirations.
**Bashar:** Our deepest gratitude to you as well.
**Questioner:** It is one of my highest excitements to heal um, acne and digestive issues I've been dealing with, and I've... all right. To provide the atmosphere, environment, and resonance to allow people to match that frequency so they may heal themselves is what we know you meant. Can you give me advice on how to do that for myself? Because I've tried a bunch of different modalities and still have... go to someone like... 


**Bashar:** Why not? Confused. Um, why are you unwilling to go to someone like you when you are willing to have people come to you?
**Questioner:** Oh. Do you have an answer? Um, I love you. And I think you're right. I know. Yeah. That's why I said it. Okay. So what's your hesitation? You don't have to talk about it now if you don't want to, but it would serve you to do so. So up to you.
**Questioner:** You know, I just get frustrated sometimes, cuz I feel like I know what I have to do, and I don't want to do it.
**Bashar:** Because what are you afraid of? Um, what are you afraid will happen if you do be the best version of myself ever?
**Bashar:** And you're afraid of that? Why? Uh, come on. It's right on the tip of your brain.
**Questioner:** I guess...
**Bashar:** Because you guess... you don't have to guess. What are you afraid will happen? What definition do you have about being your full self that makes you hesitate? Maybe you don't have an accurate definition of what that means, and that's what's making you hesitate.
**Questioner:** Yeah. I guess I'm a little nervous and scared to do that too.
**Bashar:** And because what do you think will happen if you do?
**Questioner:** I'm not sure. I guess... will you be stoned to death?
**Bashar:** I guess partially. Not that. But being accepted by others who are not themselves yet. Being accepted by others. Yeah. Who are not themselves yet. Are you like the best version of themselves?
**Questioner:** Yeah. You want to be accepted by people who are not being themselves?
**Bashar:** No. I guess not.
**Bashar:** I guess not either. So why do you care?
**Questioner:** I don't.
**Bashar:** Then go find someone like you.
**Questioner:** Exactly. Well, I always pray for more people. People like me. I want more people like me.
**Bashar:** Do you know the joke on your planet about the helicopter and the rabbi and the flood?
**Questioner:** I do not.
**Bashar:** There was an imminent flood coming, and there were people in a house. And people would knock on the door and say, "There's a flood coming! There's a flood coming! Get out!" "No, no, no. We'll stay here. We'll be safe. God will protect us." And the flood waters came, and they got up on the roof of the house. And a boat came along. Said, "Get in the boat! Get in the boat! We'll take you to safety!" "No, no, no. We're staying with our home. God will protect us." And the waters kept rising. And a helicopter flew by and said, "Jump up! Jump up! The waters are almost above your head! We'll save you! We'll take you to safety!" "No, no, no. We're staying with our house. God will protect us." The waters rose, and they drowned, and they died. And they went to heaven. And they met God. And they said, "Why didn't you protect us? Why didn't you save us?" God said, "I sent you people. I sent you a boat. I sent you a helicopter. What do you want?" So the idea is, you can pray and pray and pray, but if you don't do it, it amounts not to much. So pray for people, fine. But go and do something about meeting them. Take an action. Action is prayer in its purest form.

**Bashar:** So prayer is gratitude for what already is, not what you want. What you already have. And by being in a state of gratitude, you're in a state of grace. 

And by being in a state of grace, you act the prayer. You are the prayer through your actions. And that's what makes the difference. 


### **Q&A Session 14: Past Lives, Parallel Lives, and Belonging**

**Questioner:** until recently, I thought that I only had past lives. I wasn't familiar with parallel lives. 

So when my mother passed away a couple of years ago, uh, we could all feel her energy around us. Yes. And we assumed she's gone onto a higher level or a higher vibrational plane, different vibrational plane. And then at some point, she would reincarnate into this world. That's the linear way of looking at it. 

And that experience can be had. But that's not what's mechanically actually happening. Because everything exists at once. And our contact with her ceased. So what I'm trying to understand is: when you pass away, when you die, um, does that mean you go into a different level for a while, and then you automatically are into back into that parallel life? Or do you go higher? And a higher... where you're... P. Attention. You're not paying attention to the structure.

**Bashar:** Everything exists all at once. Okay. It's an illusion that you reincarnate. You can create the experience of reincarnation, but what's mechanically happening is that you're simply making a connection to something else that already exists and interpreting that connection as a past life, a future life, a reincarnation. Those lives, those experiences—physical, non-physical, other dimensional—all exist at once. But the connections you make, when interpreted from a space-time perspective, appear to be happening one after another. That's an illusion. But it's an experience you can have. You can create an experience of that illusion, but that's not what's actually happening mechanically.

**Questioner:** Does my soul at any given time have the option of not having those parallel lives and just staying on a high...

**Bashar:** You have the option of not experiencing them, but you always have them, because they always exist. And they exist within your consciousness, because you are all that is.


**Questioner:** So as all that is, there is nothing you don't have within you. But you don't have to experience them. You can have experiences of yourself that only experience certain things, which is what you're having right now as a physical person. Because you're all that is pretending not to be by having this apparently limited physical experience, where the physical person you are is not aware of everything that you are. So you can have the experience that you're not aware of it, but that doesn't mean it doesn't exist. It doesn't mean that it's not within you. 


**Questioner:** Yes. Does that help? Lastly, yes. Um, even though in this lifetime I consider myself a sociable person, yes, I always had a feeling that I don't belong.
**Bashar:** Yes. Well, many people on your planet are now getting that feeling because you're now becoming more aware of the fact that you have other connections to other places. You do belong. But that can be the way you interpret your growing awareness that you also have connections to other places too. That's just the way you're interpreting it. Thank you. Does that make sense?
**Questioner:** Yes. Yes. It does.
**Bashar:** So the idea is, when you make that awareness happen, when you know you have other connections and feel for a moment that you don't belong, you still do. Otherwise, you wouldn't be where you are. And the idea is to then strengthen your awareness of those connections and bring that energy down to earth, rather than running away from earth to that energy.

**Bashar:** You. And that's why sometimes, again, paradoxically... Naia, you know what's coming. Here. The idea of having a longing is what can sometimes help you understand how to belong where you are. 

### **Q&A Session 15: War, Discrimination, and Resistance**

**Questioner:** I'm not okay with war, discrimination, and things like that."

**Bashar:** Nobody ever said you had to be okay with it. The idea is to recognize that you might not prefer that. That's fine. 

But you can still use your recognition that you don't prefer it in a positive way and create something beneficial from your relationship to it. No one is saying that you have to prefer these things. Just because you can form a positive and constructive relationship to them to get a beneficial effect, one doesn't necessarily lead to the other.


**Questioner:** Yeah. It's interesting. Because the person says that does that mean that more of that stuff is invited into my reality because I can't accept that it exists?

**Bashar:** Yes. Because you're operating on a level of energy that is resistant to what is, instead of using it in a positive way. And by being resistant to it, which is a negative energy, you're compounding the negative energy of that which you don't prefer. So by saying, "I recognize I don't prefer it, but I'm not afraid of it. I can neutralize its effect in my reality, and then create a positive one. And then I can do something constructive and positive about the fact that I recognize that that's something I don't prefer." Right. So you can allow a negative state that you first feel when you see something that's unacceptable to then be just a stepping stone to propelling yourself into a positive state. Couldn't have said it better myself.
**Questioner:** And that's the tricky part. Because I think sometimes when that happens, if you see something that's upsetting or that you don't want in your reality...
**Bashar:** Might be aware that many people around you have a negative position about it.


**Bashar:** But remember also, please, that when you say "that's the tricky part," that's a belief. Because that's the negative belief making you think that it's difficult to move into a positive state when you've seen something you don't like.

**Bashar:** So a great stepping stone in that situation. Because I think many people here can agree that that happens in our reality, where you see things that you're not happy about. Is to recognize that that energy is then there, available to you, to take action to change what it is that you're seeing. And that that's a positive way that you can respond, and it'll also lighten you up. Yes. About the fact that this is essentially a dream, even if it's experienced as being real.

**Bashar:** And it's always an opportunity. It's offering you an opportunity to see if you're going to negatively react or positively respond to something you don't prefer. And what side then are you going to reinforce? Yes. And it's really easy for someone to go into a state where they start feeling powerless, like, "Oh, this is so big, how can I change this?" Right. So if you start feeling powerless, it's a signal to you that you're not working with the correct belief, not one that's in alignment with your true self.

**Bashar:** And that it... your job. Many people have asked us if we experience any difficulty in our reality. And in truth, the answer is: there is one thing we experience difficulty with: experiencing difficulty. That's the paradox. We have a terrible time experiencing difficulty, because we just can't. So we have difficulty experiencing difficulty. And if we looked at your brain, and then we looked at our brain, how much difference is there? A lot. But it's really only the state of being that's different. And do remember, your brain is being rewired with every thought you have. So when you think like us, feel like us, believe like us, behave like us, your brains will be like ours. They will function in the same way. I remind all of you once again: you're already using 100% of your brains. It's just that you're using 100% to make it seem as if you're only using 10%.
**Questioner:** I've really recently started communicating with my higher self, but it's not always clear or consistent. What can I do to increase this communication?

**Bashar:** I think we all know the answer to that. Act on your highest excitement to the best of your ability, with no insistence on a particular outcome. That will make you the most receptive antenna you can be to all energies. You are already receiving, but are unaware that you're receiving. You never have to ask for more than you're already being given, because you're all already being given everything that can be given. If it doesn't feel like that, it's because you are not paying attention, not because you're not being given what you need. So the more you act on your excitement, the more you become your true self, the more sensitive you are to higher frequency energies, the more you'll become aware of the fact of what's already being sent to you from many different sources, more than even just your higher mind. You're always being given guidance. You're always being given love. You are always being given information. Once you know that, you will see that you have everything you need. But you have to become aware of that. You don't have to ask for it. It's already there. You just have to become aware that it's there. Make sense?

**Questioner:** Yes. And I've noticed over the years that you're very consistent. And and that's very similar to the higher mind. Yes. And I believe what this individual was saying is that maybe in the beginning, when you're first actively becoming aware that you're communicating with your higher mind, yes, and you're learning that portion of your own consciousness, yes, it might be helpful to like, play games with it. Yes. Or permission slips, you know. And even listening to the information that you provide is so similar to the higher mind that it is the higher mind. Remember, you're just using us as a mask. That's the point of this entire transmission. Masks. You're using us as a mask to talk to your own higher mind. We're happy to participate, and we are involved, but this information is from your own higher minds. So it's really fun to talk to you. And fun to talk to your higher mind. And I know a lot of times people like to listen to what you're saying over and over again, and it is sort of a training, or an end-training, or something. Your higher mind is a party. Don't be left out. Join the party. Your higher mind is an ecstatic celebration. Give in and dive in. 


### **Q&A Session 16: Shape-Shifting and History**

**Questioner:** My excitement is the idea of physical shape-shifting. I'm on the trajectory of allowing myself to do it. But the more I focus on it, the more aware I am that I stay in the same state.

**Bashar:** And that's exactly why it doesn't work. Because you're too focused on needing to do it. You're shifting all the time. Remember, you're shifting billions of times per second. So when you simply align with your vibration, your highest excitement, drop the expectation and insistence on a particular representation, then if it's relevant, you have the greatest opportunity to shift your physical shape. But you need to ask yourself why you're so insistent about that particular expression. Because when you focus on the idea of shifting the outside more than the inside, then things get stuck in the shape that they are. Focus on changing the inside, and let the outer be the reflection of the change. Many times, you actually do shift your shape quite radically. But remember, as soon as you change into another person, you change your history as well. And everything seems to be as it always has been. And when you look at yourself in the mirror and go, "Oh, I haven't changed that much"... how do you know? How do you know if you now have a different history? You just think you always looked like this five minutes ago. You may have actually looked quite different. So you don't actually always know whether you're shape-shifting or not. How about that idea? So what the person who says "I want to shapeshift" is actually saying is: "I want to remember alternate histories that probably have nothing to do with who I am right now." And that can be done. But there better be a good reason for it. Yes. Yes. It has to be relevant to the path that you're taking. But understand that you're shape-shifting all the time. You're just not aware of it, because you're creating new histories that make it seem like you've always looked like this.
**Questioner:** It's fascinating. Yes. It is. You know, earlier when you were... well, you, Daryl, put the mask on. Yes. And I was looking at you. And you said that your skin color is actually that white.

**Questioner:** But then I also realized that if we were to perceive you physically, yes, you would appear to be glowing to us.
**Bashar:** Sometimes. Yes. Depends on the frequency state you're in. And that would also explain the perception of the whiteness, because of... re... to some degree. Because remember, we are only quasi-physical. We're not as solid as you experience yourselves to be. Therefore, to some degree, we are semi-transparent, and you're seeing the inner glow. 


### **Holot Hope Meditation: The Mask of Personality**

Allow yourself to drift into the dream of this particular permission slip experience by focusing on the Holot eyes open, letting all of the vibrations of the colors sink deeply within your consciousness. All the shapes and forms floating in your eyes before you: the mirror reflection of your higher mind, the mirror reflection of all the different masks that you express in life.

Remember that each and every one of you has many aspects to your personality, many multiple personality aspects, each of which is unto itself autonomous and real, and connected to another aspect of the All That Is that you are. And this you are capable of doing: shifting between all these different personas, all these different masks, because your persona is a mask. Which is why the shifts can occur. Because there is nothing permanent, in that sense, about you, except your indestructible core. Everything else is a projection, a disguise, a perspective, a point of view, an idea, an experience, another personality.

And as you gaze upon the Holot through the eyes of the mask that you are, seeing all the little shapes around the center radiating outward, each as its own mask, its own idea, its own perspective, it reinforces the constant change that you take yourself through, shifting through billions of billions and billions of parallel reality versions of yourself per second, slipping through time and space as time and space slips through you.

Allow yourself to let the idea of your personality begin to dissolve, begin to fade, begin to drift away. You are simply the neutral mask. You are looking through the eyes of a neutral mask. That mask represents a form, a mannequin, a template upon which you project this face, that face, this person, that person, whoever it is you deem you need to be at any given moment. Never really knowing who was there a moment ago, never knowing who will be there a moment from now. Slipping through time and space as time and space slips through you.

Allowing yourself to honor and acknowledge each and every personality mask that you may bring forth for whatever purpose, whatever exchange, whatever relationship, whatever reason, whatever encounter you may deem is necessary for you in this moment. Brings forth different masks, different aspects of the total you, for you are infinite and exist on all levels, and are all reflections. And you will use those reflections as is warranted, as is relevant, as is necessary, to express your journey in this dream you call physical reality. Slipping mask upon mask upon mask upon the template, shifting, ever shifting. Shape-shifting. Soul-shifting. Spirit-shifting. Personality-shifting. Time-shifting. Space-shifting. Constant dynamic change is the fundamental attribute of the mask. It is ephemeral. It is smoke and mirrors. It is a spectre, a ghost, insubstantial, a reflection, a shadow, a play of light. And yet, it reflects the substance of your very being, constantly, dynamically changing to suit your mood, your frequency, your idea of yourself, your beliefs, your feelings, your thoughts, your behaviors, your choices in life, your choices as life.

Masks are a tool of great power and paradox, allowing you to experience the true multi-dimensional, parallel reality potential of the greater beings that you are. Develop an ease of shifting from mask to mask. And even while you may adopt quite solidly the persona of each for the tasks at hand in any given moment, they are nevertheless dissociated from you as simple projections, as a device, as a tool, as a way of experiencing, as a way of encountering, as a way of exchanging, as a way of communicating. They are a tool, a technique, a method. They are a play. And you are upon the stage, and you are the stage.

Allow the higher mind to speak through the mask more and more each day. Neutralize and yet love each and every configuration. Neutralize and yet breathe life into every mask. Neutralize and allow yourself to become malleable, fluid, flexible. And in every moment that you crystallize a mask, so in the next, do you dissolve it in the crucible of your consciousness, for it is but a temporary shadow of your greater being.

Allow the higher mind to see through the eyes of the mask you consider your personality to be. Use the permission slip and neutralize, and allow yourselves to begin to feel and think and see as the higher mind does, to know and to be inspired as the higher mind is, and to see yourself from another point of view. To look from the higher mind perspective and see the physical masks that your personality is playing the game that it plays on the stage of physical reality, while you are up above in the wings, observing, guiding, suggesting, whispering, knowing, loving, playing, expressing the ecstasy and celebration of life.

You are at the masquerade ball of the higher mind, for that is what physical reality is. And each of you carries within you the information that others need, and so they present to you their masks, as you present to them yours. And even while you play the game that the masks are real, the higher mind knows that they are simple projections. They are conveniences. Yet you give them meaning as a form of communication, one to the other, a whole other level of language in the masks you consider your personas to be. For this is a language of the higher mind: the shifting masks that are presented moment to moment. See them as an animation, as a communication, as a language that leads back to the higher mind and its knowledge of itself in all the ways it can be expressed. And for each occasion, a new mask. Yet all the masks are part of you. All the masks are the masks of All That Is, experiencing and expressing itself in all the ways it can, in all the reflections that exists within it.

Breathe through the mask. In and out. Breathe life into it, and allow it to serve its simple purpose of expression and communication and state of being. And allow it to shift and change naturally, automatically, effortlessly, organically. For just as you would not stick on a single word, do not stick on a single mask. For it is a language, and it must flow. All the masks must flow in concert, in harmony, in orchestration, to express the true greater being that you are. To see each mask as one part, one aspect of the higher mind that you are, the greater being that you are, the soul that you are, the oversoul that you are. Masks upon masks in parallel realities. Masks upon masks upon masks upon masks. The projections and reflections of creation, of existence, of All That Is.

Neutralize and harmonize with your higher minds, for that is who you are. And this is but a dream and a whisper that echoes in eternity, in the mind of All That Is, in the heart of All That Is, in the soul of All That Is. Breathe it in, and let it out. Breathe it in, and let it out. Breathe it in, and hold it, and hold it, and hold it, and blow into your atmosphere the crystallization and the fluidity that allows the masks to shift naturally, in perfect timing and in perfect harmony, as a whole being of physical and higher mind.

Walk through life. Glide through life. Float through life. Sail. Act. Be. Do. For you are the spark of life behind the mask. See that in the infinite mirror before you. Know that to be true. And live that in all ways that are true for you.

