---
heading: Part 4
title: "The Story Tree"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2016-06-18
icon: Bashar
weight: 935
showdate: true
---


### ** Not Knowing Your Excitement**

**Audience Member:** I don't... I don't know my excitement.

**Bashar:** One moment. Don't know? Oh, one moment. Making sure that we've got this translation correct. Nonsense. It is very easy to understand how to act on your highest excitement. It may simply be that you have this blown-up idea of what that's supposed to be like. Keep it simple. Start simple. You are here tonight. We will assume because you're excited to be here. Yes? Yeah. So already you understand that you acted on your excitement just to get here. Yes? Mhm. So you can't say you don't know how to act on your excitement. You've just proven that that's false.

But the idea is to not make it such a grandiose thing. When we talk about acting on your highest excitement, we don't mean "highest" in the sense that it has to be the greatest thing you will ever do in your life. We don't mean it has to be a lifelong career. We don't mean it has to be the grandest project that comes with trumpets from Heaven. That's not what we mean when we say "highest." It can be that, but generally speaking, if you find that you're in a limbo state, you're at a crossroads, you can't quite figure it out, go back to the basics. Okay? At every moment in your life, there are a simple array of options available to you. You could read a book, you could take a walk on the beach, you could have lunch with a friend, you could see a movie, etc., etc., etc. Just pick the one that contains even just a tiny bit more attractiveness or excitement than any other option. 

Do that first. Take it as far as you can till you can take it no further. Then, when that seems to lose its momentum, look at the options available to you and pick the next one that contains even just a little bit more excitement than any other, and act on that to the best that you are able, with no insistence on an outcome. And just keep doing that. And then it will build and build and build, and bigger and bigger opportunities will be presented to you when you demonstrate that you're willing to act on whatever contains the highest excitement relative to any other option. That's all it means. But you can build up from there. You can create the momentum from there. 


### **Topic: Fear of Failure and Star Connections**

**Audience Member:** how come I notice that everything I approach with fear, like, I already think that I lost before I try?

**Bashar:** 'Cause because you think that something worse will happen if you actually go forward to act on the thing that excites you. You have a belief that's attached to your excitement that makes it seem worse than the alternative: doing nothing. 

Find out what that belief is and let it go, and then you will move in the direction of your excitement because you will know there's nothing to be afraid of, because you won't have created a reason to be afraid of yourself, of your true self.

**Audience Member:** But what if I fail? 

**Bashar:** What does that mean? What does failure mean? Do you know the story of Thomas Edison?

It took approximately 2,000 tries before Edison actually created a working light bulb.

someone asked him, "Well, how does it feel to have failed 2,000 times?" And Edison's response was, "I didn't fail. I found 2,000 ways not to make a light bulb." 

**Bashar:** Your definition is what makes you experience the concept of failure. If it's an experience you can learn something from, how can that ever be a failure? The failure—if you want anything close to a true failure—is to not be yourself. 

Then you could say you failed. But even then, not really, because that's still an experience that your soul can learn from and use. You understand? So, as we often say: if at first you don't succeed, redefine success to something that works for you.

**Audience Member:** I like that. All right. Then use it. Can I ask... and watch your definitions...

**Audience Member:**  which star civilizations I'm connected to.

**Bashar:** You will have to be a little bit more bold in asking the question before we know that you've asked the question and not be such a shrinking violet. What star systems am I connected to?
**Audience Member:** Why? Uh, why do you want to know?
**Bashar:** I can feel it.
**Audience Member:** Can you? What does it feel like?
**Bashar:** What does it feel like? It just feels like something's grounded in my heart.
**Audience Member:** And that guides you. It just feels right.
**Bashar:** Yes. And what does that mean to you? What does it allow you to do in life, this grounded feeling in your heart?


**Audience Member:** I guess it makes me open and curious.

**Bashar:** All right. And those are strengths and powers, are they not?

**Audience Member:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Then what is there to be afraid of? What is there to be afraid of? If you are strong and powerful and grounded in your heart and you know that that's true for you, what is there to be afraid of?

**Audience Member:** What if it doesn't work?

**Bashar:** What of that? What if it doesn't work? What does that mean? Didn't we just go through this? Did we not explain that when you act on your highest excitement and you do it to the best of your ability, that you need to lose any insistence for what the outcome actually looks like? Remember that part of the formula?
**Audience Member:** Yeah.
**Bashar:** So if you lose any insistence for what you believe needs to happen, then you're not creating the idea that something is supposed to work in a certain way. You just allow it to work as it needs to work. You don't have to make it work. And if you don't have to make it work, then you can't fail at making it work, because you don't have to make it work. Just let it work, because it already does. Does that make it easier?
**Audience Member:** A lot easier.
**Bashar:** All right. Then there you go. Allow it. Allow it. Allow it. You have some strong Arcturian energy. You have some strong Pleiadian energy. You have some strong Sirian energy. You have a few other things, and you're very strongly connected to the hybrids as well. But we won't go into that right now.
**Audience Member:** How come?

**Bashar:** Stay in that state and move through your life in that energy, and all the answers you need will come to you. It's not our job to tell you the next things about your connection to the hybrids. But I guarantee you, someone will.


#### **Topic: Dreaming and Lucidity**


**Audience Member:** Um, you make... speak up. Speaking of dreams, um, I exercise my power of choice by choosing not to dream when I was younger, and it's getting harder to choose to remember my dreams. Do you have any baby steps to help me remember them?
**Bashar:** Why do you believe you need to?
**Audience Member:** I'm excited for them, and I think I would enjoy them.
**Bashar:** I see. You understand that physical reality is also a type of dream, yes?
**Audience Member:** Mhm.
**Bashar:** Well, do you remember what happened in your physical life?
**Audience Member:** Yes.
**Bashar:** Then you remember your dreams. Okay? What if you don't need to remember your dreams because you're living your dreams in physical reality?
**Audience Member:** Wow. What about that idea? Does that definition work for you?
**Audience Member:** Absolutely.
**Bashar:** And if you allow that definition to work for you and don't need to remember, maybe you'll start remembering. Okay? I'll do that. You follow the paradox here?
**Audience Member:** Mhm. Absolutely. Use the power of paradox.
**Bashar:** I will. You are dreaming right now. Therefore, maybe you are living your dreams. Therefore, maybe you don't need to remember the ones that may occur at night, because you understand that what you call a dream is just your physical mind's way of creating symbols to remember an experience that you're having. And if you're having certain experiences that you know to remember right now, what actually gets in the way of living your physical dream? Then maybe you don't need to know those things right now. And when you relax the need to know them, maybe then, in perfect timing, you will know what you need to know. Yes? Yes. But you yourself can be the living dream. Remember that we no longer sleep because we are living the dream. We are lucid in the physical dream. Therefore, we are always dreaming, and we are always awake. Maybe that's where you're heading.

**Audience Member:** How do you know?
**Bashar:** I think I do know.

**Audience Member:** All right. Did you dream that you knew that?
**Bashar:** Um, no. It's a choice, and it's a feeling, I guess, and it's a knowingness for you.
**Bashar:** Yeah. Then know that you're dreaming now, and the more you become lucid in this dream, the more you will connect to remembering whatever it is you need to know when you need to know it. Yes? Yes. Understand, we are discussing states of being. This is the science. It's all about resonance. It's all about frequency. It's all about states of being. When you allow yourself to engage in these dialogues with us, we are delivering to you the information that is necessary to allow you the greatest probability of getting into the state of being that will serve you best. So the path we take and the information we give is simply always designed for that particular experience. You understand?
**Audience Member:** Yes.
**Bashar:** So you understand that you are having a dream with us right now. This is a dream. It's a fun dream. All right. Um, you also mentioned that we all have what you call "staff," our guides.
**Audience Member:** Um, I feel like two of them have made themselves known to me, but I just can't remember their names properly. Do you mind letting me know who they are? Tweedle Dee and Tweedle Dum? They kind of feel that way, actually. There's a strict one and a more loving one.
**Bashar:** Yes. Well, the more loving one is Tweedle Dee. The stricter one is Tweedle Dum.
**Audience Member:** Okay. Thank you.
**Bashar:** You understand that's not literally their name, yes? But it is the state of being you need for now, and they are happy to play this game with you.
**Audience Member:** I think so. Yes. And it, of itself, is a dream. Yeah. They gave me their names, and then they wiped half of it away, so it's like them.
**Bashar:** You did for your own purposes, okay, that I don't know of yet. You will when you wake up in the dream you're having right now.
**Audience Member:** Okay. I will leave it up to my higher mind. So thank you so much.
**Bashar:** All right. Sweet dreams.

#### **Topic: Contact, Politics, and Mock Elections**

**Bashar:** Um, in December, you were talking about the fall of 2016. Yes, I was. I believe, but I'm not positive, in what reference you made this comment, but I've been very curious ever since you said that you—or a group of people, I don't know who, beings—were waiting for us to change something. Do you remember making that statement, and is it appropriate... but we're not waiting.


**Bashar:** We're watching to see if you choose to change certain things. Remember, this is all about leading up to the idea of contact more openly. Therefore, certain things need to change to give us an indication that you're actually moving more strongly in the direction of choosing contact more openly. So we are watching, but we're not waiting. So that was what you were referring to: contact, for the most part.
**Audience Member:** So it's for us to be less afraid and more open.
**Bashar:** Yes. Okay. Because then you are matching our frequency more closely. And when you match our frequency more closely, you increase the probability of existing in a similar reality, and thus we can interact more closely. Right now, you are too vastly different from our frequency.
**Audience Member:** Okay. So that leads me into another thought that I've had often, and I have done what I have learned to call "programming." It's a type of... it's a permission slip.
**Bashar:** Yes. A permission slip.

**Audience Member:** Yes. But I sometimes feel that maybe my focus would be better suited to just raising my resonance, which is also what you can use permission slips for, if you wish.
**Bashar:** But again, the basic permission slip is to act on your highest excitement to the best of your ability with no insistence on a particular result. That's the basic permission slip. All other permission slips take their cue from that formula. So, as we're looking at the circus around politics that's happened these last two years, your planet is quite full of clowns, isn't it?
**Audience Member:** It's... yes. It's amazing.
**Bashar:** Yes. So instead of getting all worked up over it and fearful, why would you choose to do that? It's kind of... there's a lot of bait, you know. The "what ifs." Don't take the bait. Okay? Are you a fish? No? Then don't swallow it hook, line, and sinker. So what I was thinking is a better response would be to take that and strongly put intention towards what you prefer, and action. You must take physical action to ground the intention. So do the things that are representative. Act to the best of your ability in all the ways you can that are more representative of the version of Earth that you prefer, the version of society you prefer.
**Audience Member:** Well, that's where I get confused on what action. Some of these structures, like the legal system, it's so...

**Bashar:** It's so what? You created it. Change it. Or create your own.
**Audience Member:** How? Create a new one?
**Bashar:** And suggest to everyone that this might be something they would prefer to replace the other one with.
**Audience Member:** Okay. Well, I have ideas, but I don't know where to go with them.

**Bashar:** Then you're not relying on your imagination enough, because you may be taking it too literally. The idea is, you can act out many different things, even by mocking them up. Why not have a mock election? Can you gather your friends and vote the way you wish to vote and elect who you wish to elect in a mock election, even if it's not what you consider to be the actual one? You are actually acting it out and creating an energy state, and that leaks into your planet, even if you just mock it up. Do the best you can. Take what actions you can. Don't limit your imagination and think, "Well, if it's not the real thing, I can't do anything." You can do many things. You need to be more playful, more imaginative, and know that that actually has an effect. Okay? You understand?
**Audience Member:** But I don't know who we would be voting for.
**Bashar:** Create your own candidates.
**Audience Member:** Oh, just make one up?
**Bashar:** And make why not? If the candidate you make up is more representative of the attributes you would prefer to elect, then make one up. Take it as far as your imagination can take it. Don't sell yourself short. Okay? Don't stop yourself. Loosen up. Let your imagination run.
**Audience Member:** Okay. Great.
**Bashar:** Um, that's just one suggestion. See what other suggestions your higher mind and your imagination can come up with. Be creative. When I get an idea, then just start asking for ways to act on it and act on it. It'll come, even if it seems... oh, no. Here's that word: crazy. Act on it to the best of your ability if it's representative of what you prefer, representative of your excitement. Many of you have already heard stories of people mocking things up before they actually manifest it in their lives. Yes. You can do the same. Do you not believe you have the power to make a difference?
**Audience Member:** No, I believe I have a tremendous power to make a difference.
**Bashar:** Then it has to go hand in hand with actual physical action in order to ground the energy, because you are experiencing yourself as a physical being. So just sitting and thinking about it isn't going to do much. You actually have to do the actions, the behaviors, that are representative of what you wish and prefer to be true in the best way you can. And if you can't actually affect the structure that's there, make up your own structure to whatever degree you can and act on it. Okay? That will actually have an effect. Okay? You follow?
**Audience Member:** Yes.
**Bashar:** Because, again, please, all of you, remember: you never change the world you're on ever. You shift yourself, bit by bit, to different versions of Earth that are successfully and successively more reflective of the change you've made in yourself. Okay? The world that you were on a moment ago still exists and will never change. You're just focused in a different reality that is more representative of what you prefer. So just raising your resonance doesn't get you there. You're missing the point. You can't really raise your resonance unless you actually do something that is representative of the raising of your resonance. Okay? You're not completing the circuit. 


**Bashar:** You may raise your frequency to some degree through certain methodologies, but the idea is that even if you're just meditating, that's an action. It's a physical action. But if you actually have a scenario that you're bringing into the meditation, then you need to make it a dynamic meditation and actually act it out to the best of your ability. Then you're putting that vibe, as you say, into the world. You're radiating that frequency to the point where somebody will then see you as an example of the change, and then you will attract people of like mind, and then you gather more and more and more, and you become the majority. You understand?
**Audience Member:** Yes.
**Bashar:** Does this help you?
**Audience Member:** Yes. So you said "grounded," and that the physical action acts to ground the energy in the physical reality so that there will actually be a physical effect. So that makes me think of another issue that I wanted to ask you about. Sleep is sometimes not coming easily for me.
**Bashar:** Maybe you're not on your natural biorhythmic cycle. Maybe you're forcing yourself to be asleep when you don't need to be, and forcing yourself to be awake when you should be asleep.
**Audience Member:** Okay. Because I like to sleep. I like to be awake in the middle of the night.
**Bashar:** Then there you go. So, would it be helpful for me to ground my bed with all these things that they have come up with?
**Bashar:** Not if you're not following your natural biorhythmic cycle. It's not going to do much good for you, because then you're only forcing yourself into a cycle that's not natural. Okay? You understand? So follow your natural cycle. It's not a "should." Follow your natural cycle, and you will find that things will flow more easily in your life.
**Audience Member:** Okay. Um, my guides give me little symbols, and today and yesterday...
**Bashar:** You mean like tiny little symbols that you bang together and make music?
**Audience Member:** No. Like, on my dashboard, the "D" on my dashboard has been flashing. So I get out my manual, and I don't see any evidence that that's us telling me there's something wrong with my car. So what are they trying...
**Bashar:** Drive. Drive to be the driving engine of your life, doing what I'm just suggesting to you. You need to take action. You need to move forward.


#### **Topic: Time Perception and Synchronicity**


**Audience Member:**  when I was younger, time was very easy to figure out, and now things took a long time, and I had time to do everything, and everything's so sped up.

**Bashar:** Yes. But the idea is that if you're doing more than you need to do, it will translate as not having enough time. When you trust the synchronicity in the kit of excitement, it will organize everything for you, and you will have time to do everything you need to do. And what you don't have time to do, you don't need to do. 

excitement is a complete kit, it contains many different tools, one of which is synchronicity. Correct? So if you're acting on your highest excitement, that's the first thing you do until you can do it no further. Then you act on the next thing, and the next, and the next. The synchronicity in the toolkit of excitement will show you exactly how much time you need to spend on any given thing that is representative of your excitement. And whatever you don't have time to do at the end of the day, when you're excited about going to sleep, you didn't need to do that day. It is actually truly an organizing principle. It will show you exactly how many things you need to do, when you need to do them, how much needs to be done in a day, and so forth. Let it organize your schedule. Let synchronicity be your guide, and then you will have exactly the amount of time you need to do all the things you actually need to do. The other things, at that moment, you may not need to do as much as you think you may need to do them. Okay? Does that help?

**Audience Member:** Yeah. It's just very scary.

**Bashar:** But why is that scary? If it's a perfect organizational tool and it's actually showing you what you need to do, the only reason that would be scary is you're not trusting that to be true, right? You think you're going to miss something.
**Audience Member:** Yes. Totally.
**Bashar:** Well, then you don't understand how the tool works. Because if there's something that is truly important for you, how can you possibly miss it if it's contained in the organizing principle? You think it will leave something out. It leaves nothing out that's really relevant. That's one of its traits. It leaves nothing relevant out. So you can't miss anything. In fact, the only way to miss things is actually to spend time that you will miss them by worrying about it. You understand?
**Audience Member:** Yes.
**Bashar:** Worrying that you will miss things makes you miss things, right? Trusting the flow, you can't miss anything that's really relevant for you. That's how it works.
**Audience Member:** This sort of illusion that I'm living in this 1920s silent movie where everything's just sped up, versus how things felt, you know, 20 years ago. Yes. It's literally like a day goes by like 20 seconds. Things are accelerating.
**Bashar:** But things seem to accelerate when you're living more in the moment, living more in the now. You create less time. Remember, time is something you're creating. I know. Therefore, if you're actually living more in the moment, you're more efficient, okay? And therefore, you can do more things with less time. Okay? You understand?
**Audience Member:** Yes.
**Bashar:** So that's the natural progression: to do more things with less time because you're doing them more in the moment.
**Audience Member:** No, that makes sense. And probably why, you know, children have so much time on their hands.
**Bashar:** Yes. But again, watch your definitions. It's your definitions of your relationship to the idea of time that make you feel like you don't have enough time. There is always enough time because you're the one creating it, right? But if you create more details, then you need more time. But if you don't need that many details, then you also won't need as much time. Right? Work more holistically.
**Audience Member:** Right. Totally makes sense.
**Bashar:** Absolutely. Yes. You say on your planet, "Work smarter, not harder." Work more holistically, and then you won't need as much time to accomplish things, right? 



#### **Topic: PTSD, The Story Tree, and Abusers**

**Tania:** the recent shooting in Orlando, the terror attack, that you already predicted?
**Bashar:** No. Not even close. Just checking.

**Tania:** Okay. So the next one, this actually relates to the monologue that you gave in the permission slip, and that is... um, this is an individual that wrote in that they were repeatedly abused in childhood. All right. And since then, their brain just seems to be in a state of anxiety. Always in a fight-or-flight state.

**Tania:** And they wanted to know if the Story Tree could help them get over their PTSD and then regain balance.

**Bashar:** Yes. This is what it's designed to do.

**Tania:** Okay. So even mechanically, what's going on when you're doing the... when you're doing this permission slip? When you talk about the part where you sort of dissociate, or you see the imagery of what happened, but you imagine it is happening, in a sense, to someone else because you're dissociated from it.

**Bashar:** Yes. It's like watching a movie. It may look like you, but it's not you. That's the dissociative part. Again, it's not about denial. It's just a technique to begin to rewire the brain in a certain way to make it more receptive to the positive vibrations that will reinforce the positive story. This is a technique. It's a very specific technique designed specifically for the rewiring of the neurological system in the body.

**Tania:** Okay. So, for example, in the example you were giving, this might be a person seeing this happening to a child.
**Bashar:** Yes.

**Tania:** So that, in and of itself, could evoke some pretty strong feelings, of course.
**Bashar:** And again, you can use this technique for that as well. Any traumatic experience, any abusive experience, any negative experience that you call such, can apply to this technique. Right? Because people have PTSD from observing other people being abused. We understand that. And there's so many reasons why. Does the brain choose the PTSD as a way of resolving the issue, in a sense? What is happening is the neurological system is in a closed feedback loop, thus reinforcing the original trauma over and over and over again. The idea is that techniques like the one we have just described to you can break that loop. Can break that cycle. So it's almost like the brain starts to sort of malfunction. It gets stuck in a loop. It's not that it's actually malfunctioning. It's actually functioning too well, but only along a specific line. There is no other input coming in that should be coming in. All the input is simply based around that experience. Therefore, all the efficiency of the neurology is simply focused in that experience.
**Tania:** Is it, in a sense, the brain saying, "You need to come at this a different way, otherwise it's just going to keep repeating over and over again"?
**Bashar:** Exactly. So it's actually a very powerful tool for you to give yourself in learning how to recognize that you've created a brain loop. Yes. Because it's important that you perceive something from a new perspective. Yes. And these kinds of tools can help you achieve the different perspective that is required to break you from the loop. Because in the loop, the person can feel powerless because they feel like, "I can't stop this loop." Yes. And therefore, again, this permission slip is specifically designed to interact with the neurology in such a way as to help break the loop.

**Tania:** What I've noticed about permission slips is that when you experience something and you feel powerless, you can feel very stuck in that place, and it shows you that you're having a definition that tells you that there's nothing you can do about something, or you're just telling yourself a story about the situation that's reinforcing the idea that you are powerless.
**Bashar:** Yes. And of course, there is always the ability to remember the Primal Story. And the Primal Story is: you can't feel powerless unless you're empowered to create the feeling of powerlessness. That's the Primal Story. And then you know if you've changed a powerless interpretation of a situation by the fact that you feel relieved and you no longer feel disempowered. Correct? Similar to a permission slip you gave a long time ago called "Circuit Breaker."
**Bashar:** Yes. This is another form of circuit breaker, but something slightly more sophisticated and more specific.
**Tania:** Yes. So I think that a lot of people enjoyed that and got a lot out of it. And another person wrote in and said that they were... um, they wanted to know if they can use the technique to change an experience that they gave to someone else.



**Tania:** Okay. So when you say that, you're saying that the person can heal themselves in relation to something they may have done that they're not so...
**Bashar:** The technique can be used for the abused and the abuser. Because, again, remember, it takes a victim to make a victim. The abuser has also been abused. Therefore, it will work for both sides of the coin.

**Tania:** And would you say that if the abuser then uses this technique and dissociates from the negative energy associated with their guilt, yes, does that in turn impact the individual that had the experience, regardless of whether they're even aware of the other person's...?
**Bashar:** It depends on many different factors. But again, being a physical reality, the most effective might be, if possible, that the person who has used it on themselves as the abuser to transform themselves thus offers, at least, the opportunity to benefit the abused in the same way, with the same tool, to help them as well.
**Tania:** You mean by sharing it? Or you're saying energetically it's just an automatic thing once the abuse...?
**Bashar:** Actually, no. I'm saying physically they need to communicate to the person that they abused and help them out of it, if at all possible.


### **Guided Meditation: The Story Tree**

**Bashar:** Breathe gently, easily, deeply. Let go of your concerns. Relax your physical form. Let your thoughts drift. And as your lights change and your music rises, allow yourselves to focus on the mirror of the Holot, for it is a mirror, and it reflects. For the purposes of the permission we have shared with you of the Story Tree, this Holot is all the branches that you can create radiating out from the central trunk, going deep into the roots of the beginnings of your experience of your life in physical reality in this incarnation.

Therefore, use this Holot experience now to begin to allow yourselves to let the Story Tree permission slip sink in, so that you may, with strong roots embedded deep in the ground, draw forth from the earth the nourishment that is required to allow the tree to grow tall and strong, and allow it to blossom with its leaves, flowers, and fruits that will give you the opportunity to neutralize and shift those vibrations that are out of alignment with your true self, and allow them to transform into those frequencies that will serve you in more constructive, creative, loving, positive ways. So that you may allow yourself to experience the growth of your being and the support of the universe in shifting to frequencies that allow you, ultimately, to take advantage of the parallel realities that you are passing through all the time, but in such a manner of expressing more consciousness.

So that by using this permission slip, and by being the Story Tree and telling yourself the story that is more true for you vibrationally and energetically, you may transform that from the earth into that which reaches to the sky and bathes in the sun, that allows you to live more freely, more openly, and to generate the shade that will cool and calm the ground and the roots, so that you may get the reverberation from the top to the bottom that will ultimately penetrate every branch, every leaf, every flower, and every fruit that you bring forth in ways that will feed your soul and also allow the blossoms to give delight to those who shall look upon you and see that you have grown tall and strong, and yet flexible enough to bend with the winds of change, and know that you will always be able to draw forth the sustenance that you need from all the experiences you have had, no matter what the vibration was at that time. They can all be transformed up through the roots and the trunk and the branches and the leaves into the experiences that serve you now and allow you to find yourself ultimately in a forest of similar trees, all swaying in the breeze, creating a beautiful, verdant landscape on the rolling hills of reality, becoming the Forest of Truth, the forest that receives the unconditional love and light of All That Is and bathes in it and is immersed in it, grounded in it, and celebrates life in all its forms, in all its ways.

Allow yourself to breathe gently and easily through all your leaves, and breathe out that which is no longer you, shifting, growing, changing with the seasons of your life into the beautiful Story Tree that tells the story of who you are and who you shall become. Allow yourself to grow and branch out. Allow yourself to dream. And allow the roots that now can serve you in positive ways to stretch out and connect to all the other roots of all the other trees, so that you all become one tree, supporting each other, shading each other, nourishing each other, delighting each other, and covering the landscape of your life and providing home and shelter for all that live within. All the thoughts, all the feelings, everything that is you, lives within that new forest created by that single Story Tree and all the others that you connect to, to share life, to share love, to be who you are truly, who you are.

Transition and shift into that vibration in comfort and in ease and in peace, for that is all contained within you. There is nothing that is really external. You contain everything that you need to grow strong and tall and to reach toward the light of the sun and to breathe in that which shall sustain you and nourish you for all your life and beyond. For you lay the groundwork, and you lay the foundation for the beauty that is to come, the beauty that is always here, the beauty that ever was. Tell yourself a new story. Work with your higher mind and your imagination to be the new story that you know you can be, to live in that story, to love in that story, to experience life as that story.

The winds pass through your branches and your leaves, creating a beautiful, beautiful music and a song and a story of life, a song and a story of eternity, a song and the story of you. The true you. The beautiful you. The blossoming you. The verdant you. The living you. The powerful you. Deserving of life and deserving of love. The vibrant energy, the core of your being, spreads out through the trunk, the roots, and the branches, and the leaves, the flowers, and the fruit, and allows you to live a story that is surpassingly sweet and sustaining.

Breathe it in and make it your own. Breathe it in and make it your own. Breathe it in, and it is yours forever and ever. Sway in the breeze. Delight in your new story. Empower yourself. Be the source.