The Structure of Existence


# The Nature of Consciousness and Existence

**Question:** What exactly is consciousness?

**Bashar:** It is self-awareness and self-reflection. In order for you to know that you are "you," you have to have something else to compare it to. Without a concept of an "other," you would not have a concept of "self." Therefore, consciousness is literally self-reflection and self-awareness—the ability to know the self by knowing what is *not* the self.

As we have described from time to time, existence is one unbroken thing. There is an aspect or form of existence that we call "the One" for convenience, which does not know itself. It is completely homogeneous; there is nothing else but it, so there is absolutely no reference point for it. Therefore, it has no sense of self, no experience, and no self-awareness whatsoever.

However, there is also the version of existence that *does* know itself, and that is what we term, for convenience, "All That Is." It is literally the existence that is aware of itself because it creates within itself a kind of reflective pattern—a resonance of energy—and therefore creates "otherness" within itself. It creates a reflection of itself, and therefore it can know itself by comparing the reflection to itself.

Those reflections continue to reverberate infinitely, and each and every one of those reflections is literally all that exists within All That Is. All That Is is made of all of you, all of us. Everything you can imagine is a reflection of existence knowing itself through All That Is.

Consciousness very importantly requires the concept of otherness within existence in order to know itself. Life experiences, time, space, and all that you ever have experienced or will experience are the product of All That Is knowing itself in all the ways that it can. Every single thing, every single being, and every single concept within existence are all the different "eyes of God," if you want to put it that way, through which it sees itself in those reflections.

Because it is actually consciousness itself—because it is conscious of itself—all the reflections are also made of that consciousness. All the reflections are conscious too, such as all of you and all of us. Everything may not express the idea of self-aware consciousness in the way that you do, but everything is still an expression of self-aware reflected consciousness. Even a rock has some degree of awareness that it is "this rock" and not "that rock." It may do that through a being such as yourself—by you noticing that there is this rock and that rock. You are including the idea of your reflection of consciousness in such a way that the rock can know itself through your perception. Even though it may not know itself exactly in the way that you do, it is still on some level aware that it is its own rock.

So, consciousness is everything, everywhere. You can experience it in a number of different ways if you get more aware of nature, more aware of All That Is, more aware of different parallel realities and dimensions, and different aspects of imagination and creativity. There cannot be anything that you can imagine that is not somehow part of All That Is.

Existence is what it is. It is in no way, shape, or form subject to anything, because everything exists within existence. Time and space are subject to existence; existence is not subject to time and space. Existence just has one quality: it just *is*. That is its nature. Therefore, non-existence is not something that existence can become. Non-existence has its own quality: it is that which does not exist. Therefore, by definition, non-existence doesn't exist.

Everything that you experience is part of existence, real unto itself, a reflection of All That Is experiencing itself in all the ways that it can, expanding infinitely to allow for the expansion of All That Is knowing itself.

The structure of existence never changes; that is fixed. It is a definitive reflective structure. What changes, what expands, are all the different viewpoints, experiences, and perspectives of the structure that never changes. So it is both changing and unchanging, exhibiting that paradox of that which does not know itself and that which does.

This is why it all comes down to that ancient idea you have heard on your planet for thousands of years: "Know Thyself." As you know more and more of who and what you are as an expression and a reflection of the infinite of All That Is, you experience more of being All That Is. Each and every single one of you is an aspect, a reflection of All That Is.

Remember that this is why we say that your point of power is in paradox, somewhere in between what appear to be two polar opposites: that which does not know itself and that which does. This is, in a sense, the truth of existence itself, because everything issues from that center point. It demonstrates very clearly that even though sometimes you think of existence as a duality (positive and negative), it is in fact actually a trinity, because there is always a balance point in the center. Being in that balance point, being in that state of being, is always the state that will allow you the best possible way to know yourself, the best possible way to receive more of the reflection of yourself.

As you expand your perspective and your experience of All That Is from your unique point of view, you then become more and more, in all ways, who you truly are—which is All That Is. But you have decided here and now to play the game for a while of forgetting who you are. You need to forget who you are in order to remember who you are from a new point of view. You have to wipe the slate clean in order to have a truly new experience. If you exist only in a timeless state, there is no change, there is no growth, there is no discovery. So you play the game of imposing on yourself these kinds of blinders—to forget that you are in fact infinite, eternal, and All That Is—so you can play the game of *not* being All That Is, and explore and discover new perspectives of yourself. That is what allows All That Is to grow and expand forever and ever. It never ends.

You have ideas on your planet that you call such things as "blending with God." Well, when I blend with God, I guess that's it? No. Because as you blend with God, what you actually experience is that you *are* God. There is nothing but you. And this is what each and every one of you can experience, because it is holographic in nature and structure. Just because you might suddenly experience yourself as All That Is doesn't mean it is necessarily finished. You could experience yourself as All That Is from one perspective, then from another perspective, on and on. The ring has no beginning; the ring has no end. Existence just *is*, and it is always becoming and being simultaneously. Again, the paradox shows its head.

Now that you may have a bit of a reflection of the idea of consciousness being a reflection—a sense of self based on the sense that there is another that appears not to be you (of course it is, but appears not to be)—you have a sense of that game of existence that it plays with itself to awaken itself to new understandings of exactly what it is.

Please remember: you are valid, you are valuable. If you weren't needed, believe me, you wouldn't exist, because All That Is doesn't make mistakes. The fact that you exist is validation enough to prove that All That Is needs your unique perspective, your unique reflection, your unique experience in order for it to actually be all that it can be.

***

# On Judgment and Projection

**Teresa:** Hi, I’m Teresa. I have a question about judgment, specifically in the negative sense. I feel like on a practical, day-to-day level, there is a lot of negative judgment happening. I’m wondering how to understand this negative judgment better, especially when confronted with things that seem seemingly bad and that we shouldn't necessarily accept.

**Bashar:** You can always recognize what you do and don’t prefer. But the concept of recognizing what you prefer doesn’t mean you need to invalidate what you don’t prefer, because it is an equally valid choice. You can recognize that you don’t prefer it from a neutral, observational position.

The idea of judging something negatively usually represents that you are judging something negatively within yourself. If you understood that everything is neutral and that it is truly an equally valid choice, then you wouldn’t have any charge on it. You would know that it can’t affect you because you’re not accepting it; you don’t prefer it, so you can’t be affected by it. If you know that you can’t be affected by something that someone may offer you that you perceive to be negative in energy or state of being—if you know it has nothing to do with you and cannot be experienced by you just because you can observe it neutrally—then what reason do you have to judge it?

**Teresa:** What is the advice for people when, say, there are groups showing their hate for another type of person? How do we respond to that?

**Bashar:** As a culture, as a group, you recognize that what they are expressing is hatred for some part of themselves. Do you understand? It’s just that they are in denial about it. Remember, a person who is in denial is also in denial that they are in denial. They may have been brought up to believe that they are unworthy, unloved, or undeserving. They may actually feel that they are in judgment of themselves, but they are afraid to look at that because they are afraid that if they do, it will turn out to be true that they are unworthy. So they will do everything to avoid looking at that within themselves. That means they have to look outside themselves and project what they don’t like about themselves onto others as convenient scapegoats.

If you understand that those people who hate others are, in a sense, in pain from hating themselves so much, you can have the compassion to help them start to find a way to look at themselves and heal themselves. By understanding there are ways to validate themselves, they would not have to judge themselves negatively and therefore would have no reason to judge others in that way.

**Teresa:** But when you have a group like that, I’m not able to necessarily speak to these people, or people with that understanding aren't necessarily able to speak to these people. Why not?

**Bashar:** Why not? They are. I suppose you have these conversations with people. Do you allow them, from that neutral standpoint, to speak their mind? If you don’t allow people to speak, you can allow them anything, because again, you understand it doesn’t really affect you. Now, this doesn’t mean you excuse someone who is perpetrating something negative upon another or forcing themselves on another. But you understand that dialogue, communication, and helping them see themselves in a more positive light can work wonders and work miracles.

There is actually a story on your planet about an individual—an African American man—who went around speaking to members of an organization you call the Ku Klux Klan. To this day, just because he was dialoguing with them and allowing them to understand him as a person, 200 or more of those individuals gave up their connection to that organization. It can be done. You just have to understand what the mechanisms are that are at work and understand how to address the things that those people fear and hate about themselves.

**Teresa:** Can that filter down to less important things, such as people critiquing other people's art, for instance?

**Bashar:** Again, you always have the ability to decide whether information given to you, or a perspective given to you, is advice that you could incorporate. It might teach you something. But the point is, you have the ability to decide what is and isn’t true. If you accept the idea of information or a particular viewpoint without a judgmental charge on it, then you can decide for yourself what is worthy or valuable to you to incorporate and what you need to leave behind. That has nothing to do with them; it’s up to you to develop that discernment within yourself.

Just because someone might critique you doesn’t mean that it’s necessarily applicable to you. But you get to decide whether it is or not. They don’t get to decide that; you do. They are just offering you a point of view. If you react to it negatively, then in some senses you actually are believing what they are saying to be true. So that might give you an opportunity to look within yourself: if you get such a critique, decide whether you’ve been critiquing yourself too harshly or not.

**Teresa:** Is critiquing as a whole necessary for us?

**Bashar:** Yes, it can be, because it can be used as a course corrector. You won’t always necessarily come up with every bit of information that you may require in life by yourself. That’s why there are so many people. Everyone is a reflective mirror for everyone else. That’s what relationship is for: to give people something to offer them that helps them become more of who they are. Sometimes people will do it negatively, sometimes positively, sometimes neutrally. But the point is, if you don’t have that reflection and feedback, you may actually be missing out on a synchronicity that is giving you information you need. Even if the information they’re giving you is not literally what you need, it may spark you to think of something you hadn’t thought of before. So in that sense, it all has value, whether you use what they literally said or not.

It’s about being imaginative, open, creative, and willing to understand that nothing happens in your life without a reason. You get to decide how it applies and to what degree it applies. But if it’s happening, it’s happening for a reason. When you stay in the positive state of knowing that it must be there for a reason—even if it’s something you don’t prefer—you stay in a positive state and use what you don’t prefer in a way you *do* prefer. Then you get the benefit out of it. If you use what you don’t prefer in a way you don’t prefer, you don’t get the benefit.

***

# Living in the Now and Planning

**Questioner:** Hello Bashar. Many times you, and other people like Eckhart Tolle, have talked about living in the Now, the Power of Now. That really is all there is, right? There is only Now. Look at your watch; it’s always Now. It’s never "then," it’s never "will." It’s always Now.

But Mark Twain said, "Plan for the future, because without a doubt, the future is where you will spend the rest of your life." We understand the sentiment. Are you saying you can’t plan?

**Bashar:** The idea is that your plan has to contain an opportunity for spontaneity too, because you have no idea what’s actually going to happen. So, continue to plan for the future, but live in the moment and allow for spontaneity. Every plan should contain at least the possibility that the plan will fall apart.

***

# Advanced Technology and Human Readiness

**Questioner:** My friend didn’t quite buy all of this, so I encouraged him to ask a question. He asked: If you assist us and have such advanced technology, why haven’t you given human beings solutions, processes, or formulas to create cleaner energy and more environmentally friendly materials?

**Bashar:** We have. But most of you don’t do anything with it. We give you enough—we give you a start—and we watch to see what you do with it. If you don’t do much with it, what’s the point of giving you more? We cannot just load the whole thing onto you; you wouldn’t understand it. We have to take you through a process of evolving your understanding of the technologies.

We have actually shared the basic principles with many people on your planet, and we watch to see how far they take it. For example, some of your physicists have been interested in understanding how we use our spacecraft. We have explained the principle of how we go from star to star very quickly. While moving more slowly we can operate on different kinds of electromagnetic and gravitic wave technology, going from star to star happens very differently.

The principle, to keep this brief, is that you think of an object as existing in a location. We don’t think that way. We think that *location* is a property of the *object*. So, if you change the locational variable in the energy equation of an object to another locational variable, the object has to stop existing at the first location and simply immediately start existing at the second location—not actually having traveled the intervening distance, just disappearing from one spot and appearing in another.

We have described an experiment to test this out for yourselves. Take something that has very little friction and very little mass, like a hollow conductive ball of steel or copper. Put it on a very flat table (at least 10 feet long). Put it at one end and, with whatever technology you have, make it resonate to the point where you can read its entire energy equation. Then move it to the other end of the table, take another reading, and see if your technology is sensitive enough to tell the difference between those two frequencies. There should be a difference.

If you can measure the difference, then you can put the object back in Location A and overwhelm it with a vibration of Location B. It should start rolling down the table and stop at Location B, thus proving the principle that things resonate to certain locational frequencies. We have described this experiment to several people on your planet to date. No one has done it. Therefore, there is no point in giving you more information until you at least begin with the basics.

We are always willing to share, but we will only go so far until we know that you are ready for more. It would be the equivalent of handing a child a nuclear weapon. Our technology is roughly 3,000 years ahead of yours. We can’t just download it all for you; you simply wouldn’t understand it. We are happy to give you the basics and help you through the process.

***

# Efficiency and Following Excitement

**Questioner:** I’m trying to follow your advice to follow my highest excitement to the best of my ability and without any expectation. What do you say about efficiency then?

**Bashar:** Efficiency is automatically built in. When you act on your highest passion to the best that you are able, with no insistence or assumption as to what the outcome is supposed to look like, you start to activate the toolkit of excitement. That toolkit contains the driving engine that moves you through life. It contains the organizing principle of synchronicity that actually brings you the things you need to do in the order in which you need to do them. You can’t get more efficient than that.

It is automatically built into the idea. That’s why we say that when you do that and activate that kit, it’s a complete kit and it leaves absolutely nothing out that is relevant for you in your life. It is the path of least resistance. When you lower the resistance as much as you can, then you flow through life. Again, you can’t get more efficient than that.

***

# Frequency, Healing, and Resonance

**Questioner:** You were describing sound and location. For those who are able to "tone quantumly," is that what they're doing with their healing for people?

**Bashar:** In some senses, yes. Although remember, the idea is that you put out a frequency that the person requiring the healing is invited to match. If the person matches the frequency that represents a healed state, the person heals themselves. No healer heals another directly.

It’s basically the same principle as moving from one frequency to the next. Remember, you are all shifting through parallel realities billions of times a second anyway; it’s just that you don’t know it. When you become aware of the idea that it’s all about resonance, all about the frequency of energy of consciousness, then by putting out certain frequencies that are representative of a certain path, a person who is willing to match that frequency will follow a similar path.

It’s all about knowing that’s how things change: by shifting the frequency. It’s a similar analogy to some of your technology, such as television. You’re watching one program; you want to watch another. What do you do? You change frequencies, and then you get a different result—you get a different program. Change the frequency within yourself in the way you prefer, and you get the program that is commensurate with that frequency. You cannot experience what you’re not the vibration of.

***

# Human-ET Hybrids and Evolution

**Questioner:** I have a question about human-ET hybrids. I was aware that my DNA was altered when I was a little girl. Does that make us living hybrids?

**Bashar:** All humans, in a sense, to begin with, are hybridized. To be human is already a hybrid. Remember that in ancient times, long ago, an ET civilization that most of you refer to as the Anu or Anunnaki arrived on your planet. They found the naturally evolved hominid and crossbred their DNA with it into what you call *Homo sapiens*. So you already contain hybridized genes just by being *Homo sapiens*. Other kinds of alterations have occurred over time. So, in that sense, to begin with, you are all hybridized.

There are different phases of hybridization. One thing that is important for many of you to understand is that there are other societies that actually function as an evolutionary mechanism in nature by hybridizing other societies. It’s one of the ways that nature expands. Earth is becoming, over time, what we call the sixth hybrid race. In time, the five hybrid races—including our own—and the sixth (your world) will merge to become the seventh hybrid race, which will be something quite different and unique.

But you are going through an evolutionary process now where you’re becoming really more human in many ways, because most of you aren’t really human yet. In other words, you think of yourselves as human, but there are different things going on in your genetic makeup that have not necessarily allowed you to express your full human capacity. For example, many people on your planet believe that you’re only using 10% of your brain. Nothing could be further from the truth. You’re using 100%, but you’re using 100% to make it *seem* as if you’re only using 10%. When you start to understand your true capacity, you will express more of it and actually express your true gifts as a full human being. So you are, in some senses, still evolving into your full humanity. That’s, to some degree, what becoming the sixth hybrid race is all about.

**Questioner:** Is the memory and abilities I’m starting to remember locked in my DNA, or is it actually some ET species communicating that with me?

**Bashar:** It can be both. Again, there are those from other dimensions and other realities that are also part of the evolutionary agenda for your planet and are helping out. So there is communication, there is energy, and there is genetic material that can be activated. There are many different pathways to the natural evolution of the species on your planet to become more fully realized. It’s a process, and a lot of different beings are involved, obviously including us.

The idea of sharing information with you—the information itself contains certain frequencies, certain resonances, that you may not necessarily perceive in the translated words. Therefore, by resonating to those energies, by matching some of those frequencies, you also can experience an acceleration within your own evolution, or simply what you call overall "Ascension," which is simply the raising of your frequency to becoming more expressive of who and what you truly are.

***

# Alternative Energy Progress

**Questioner:** You mentioned that you have supplied or enlightened people on alternate energy technologies. Some people have posted work on YouTube of things you have shared. Have they actually created energy, like lit a 100-watt light bulb?

**Bashar:** They are only at the beginning of such technology. They have noticed that there are certain energetic effects coming from some of the devices that they have been willing to create, but it’s just the beginning. There are other things, other pieces of the puzzle, they have yet to add to really get the final effects. But they are noticing that there are effects.

***

# Tuning Electronics and Schumann Resonance

**Questioner:** Another channeler talked about how the radiation or waves from cell phones aren't in tune with us—it’s usually a discordant frequency. Is there a way for us to tune electronics better?

**Bashar:** Yes. Your Tesla knew how. The idea is that there is a frequency that can actually bring all of the electronic waves on your planet into a single harmonic. It’s based on what you call the Schumann resonance, the vibrational frequency of the Earth, which starts somewhere around 7.83 Hertz (though it does go up and down based on different variables). If you can allow yourself to create a harmonic that is a harmonic of that Schumann resonance, it can actually entrain all other electronic frequencies to go into that harmonic. That is not then harmful to your species; it is not discordant anymore.

That would be an addition to, or different technology than, what we’re using right now. Although it can be an offshoot of what you’re using, it’s not necessarily that difficult. Again, your Tesla understood this. You may wish to study his work.

***

# Delusions of Grandeur and Nightmares

**Andre:** I recently heard about something called "delusions of grandeur," and I have experienced this myself on several occasions. Sometimes it’s very exciting, and then I get blasted back into reality, and it’s not so nice.

**Bashar:** The phrase is usually representative of the negative ego expressing itself. "Delusions of grandeur" can have negative meaning, positive meaning, or be used negatively or positively. In some senses, it is a way of sometimes reminding people that they might be getting ahead of themselves. Otherwise, it can be used to suppress people. You have to have the discernment to understand how it’s being used. Some people who are afraid of people excelling might say you’re having delusions of grandeur just because you’re attempting to go beyond what they believe to be your station in life. They think you shouldn’t be reaching for the stars; you should be happy just to reach the moon.

You have to be able to tell the difference between when they’re attempting to put you down, as opposed to when someone might actually be logically and wisely advising you that you might be thinking more highly of yourself than you need to be in a negative way.

**Andre:** I have another question about recurring nightmares I have about the ocean. Do you have any insight into what that might be?

**Bashar:** Usually, though not always, it is a reflection of dealing with deep emotional issues. Does that ring a bell?

**Andre:** How can I deal with those more efficiently?

**Bashar:** Are you experiencing the ideas of believing in a lack of self-worth or lack of deservability?

**Andre:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** Then that’s a good place to start. Understand that you have belief systems about yourself that are filtering your energy in a manner where you are creating a discounting energy of yourself. Is there something in life you would rather be doing? Something that is your dream, your passion, that you’re holding back from for some reason?

**Andre:** Probably, yeah.

**Bashar:** That means yes. What would that be? Or what might it be? It doesn’t have to be the end-all-be-all, but can you name one thing that you would really be passionate and excited to do that you are not doing for some reason? For some belief system that something bad might happen if you do, or that you’re not good enough, not worthy enough, or someone might reject you if you went in the direction of your truth? Any of those ringing a bell?

**Andre:** Those are ringing little bells.

**Bashar:** Do they add up to one big bell?

**Andre:** The one big bell.

**Bashar:** Can you give us an example of what you’re passionate about that you’re not doing?

**Andre:** Well, I’m doing these things, but I would like to be doing them like a thousand times better.

**Bashar:** That’s what we say: when you’re doing your excitement, you have to do it in the most exciting way. If you’re not really doing it in the most exciting way, to the fullest that you can, you’re not really doing your full excitement. So what is holding you back in your belief system? What’s holding you back from doing it a thousand times more strongly? What are you afraid will happen?

**Andre:** I’m afraid of... making things worse.

**Bashar:** Can you be as creative at making them better? That’s the question. Don’t use your creativity to make things worse; that proves you *are* creative. So why not use your creativity to make things better for yourself instead of worse? The universe doesn’t care which way you use the energy. Since you have proven to yourselves that you can make things worse, why not choose to use the same creativity to make things better?

What’s one little fear you have of something that might happen if you actually open up to being the you you prefer to be?

**Andre:** I’d probably get too wild or something and kill myself.

**Bashar:** Too wild and kill yourself? Fascinating that you would equate the idea of having so much fun that you would kill yourself potentially. Why would you kill yourself if you’re having fun?

You see, this is what we’re talking about. You have definitions that you’re treating as if they’re facts. You do not have a "tendency." You are making a choice to believe in something. You’re treating the idea of tendency as if it is a law of the universe. It’s not. It’s an opinion. It’s a belief. It’s a perspective, and that can be changed.

If you would love to change it, then change it. You have to find out what *it* is first. You all operate on a belief system: whatever you believe to be true is what you do. You can recognize that there may be things you would prefer to do that you’re not doing, but the only reason you wouldn’t do them is that, somehow in your motivational mechanism within your psychology, you must be defining it as something that wouldn’t [be good/safe]. That’s why you would move away from it with all your power and all your strength.

You have to find the definition that is coloring your excitement and making it seem darker than it is. When you find that definition—that’s dampening it down, filtering it so you can’t see the light in it clearly—then you can let go of that definition. Once you discover what that definition is that’s out of alignment with your truth, you will see that it’s nonsensical. It makes no sense. It’s something you picked up on the way from your parents, your society, your friends, your school. Someone somewhere fed you a belief that has nothing to do with you. It belongs to them. You’re carrying around belief baggage that has nothing to do with you. Drop it. It doesn’t belong to you.

But you have to identify what that belief is in order to see how nonsensical it is to keep buying into it. That’s the process. You ask the question in one of two ways:
1. "What would I have to believe is true about myself in this circumstance in order to feel what I’m feeling?"
2. "If I did act on my highest passion, what am I most terrified might happen?"

One way or the other, the answer—the definition—will come to you if you’re willing to receive it. And once you receive it, you will see there was actually nothing to be afraid of. It’s just something you bought into and believed to be true, and that’s what made it seem real.

Remember, physical reality is an illusion. The belief systems are simply designed to make you believe that it’s real. That’s how they operate. If belief systems didn’t work to perpetuate themselves and make it seem real, you couldn’t have a physical experience, because physical reality isn’t real. It’s just a projection of consciousness. It’s a shadow play, a projection on a wall, and the beliefs make it seem dimensional and solid. It’s not.

You get to choose what to believe is true within the parameters of the game that you’re playing. You can decide that some definitions and some beliefs simply don’t work for you, and decide which ones do, and move through life that way. Again, you will never be contradicted by life itself. What you put out is what you get back. It may not always look like you think it may, it may not always look like you expect, but it will be there for a reason. If you stay in a positive state with it and know that there must be a positive reason why something showed up—even if it’s something you don’t objectively prefer—it’s there for a reason. If you stay in the state of knowing that, you will always get the positive benefit from why that has shown up. If for nothing else, sometimes you will draw what you don’t prefer as a contrast to more clearly understand, by comparison, what you *do* prefer. And that’s how you use what you don’t prefer in a preferable way.

***

# Choice, Randomness, and Hidden Propulsion Tech

**Questioner:** Does choice become random if you allow yourself to present yourself with truly equal options? Or is it then when your true unbiased preference can shine forth?

**Bashar:** Well, yes, and there’s a little bit of both in that. You understand that synchronicity on your planet can allow for a number of different kinds of paths to serve the same purpose or the same function. So, unless there is some reason why you really need a specific thing to happen in a specific way, most of you are satisfied enough by simply putting out the energy of the theme you’re exploring and allowing any number of things to show up seemingly randomly that will work for you in a certain way. As long as that certain way is fulfilled, it doesn’t really matter whether you choose A, B, C, or D.

**Questioner:** How advanced is the propulsion technology on Earth at the moment that is hidden from the public?

**Bashar:** It is capable of manipulating electromagnetic and gravity waves to a certain extent, but it’s not as far along as many people suppose. It’s not as controllable by certain people as many people suppose. Nevertheless, it is farther along than you’ve been told.

In other words, there are crafts that have been created by humans on your planet that do exhibit some of the traits that you assign to some of our craft. But, to use your own vernacular, they’re the "Model T" version compared to our craft. But they still do remarkable things.

**Questioner:** Are they transdimensional?

**Bashar:** They can be, but it’s not really fully controlled at this time. Therefore, there have been what you would call a few unintended events. Therefore, it’s not really completely under your guidance yet. Besides, certain things won’t be allowed because they impinge on other realities that you have no business impinging on. Until you learn to do what you’re doing in a more beneficial way, some of the technologies that you may actually have access to are not actually allowed to go as far as they could. And many of the people working on those technologies actually don’t realize that some of that information is being withheld from them, in much the same way that they might be withholding information from the general population of your planet.