---
heading: Part 1
title: "The seven neutral needs"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2017-06-18
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 405
tags: ['']
---





Some people do not necessarily know the difference between what it is they need in life and what it is that they often say that they want in life. There is a big difference between the idea of the energy of what you need and what you may want. Now, sometimes they might coincide if you get lucky. But the idea is that many times what you want might often be the product of what you’ve been taught to believe you need that may not actually be what you really need in life. And what you want can sometimes, because of those belief systems that might be either fear-based or negative, be something that the negative ego thinks it needs to be in control of. It needs to attract into your life in order for your life to be fulfilled.

But the thing to understand is that life works automatically when you allow it to. And everything you truly need will come to you in perfect timing. It’s an automatic mechanism. The idea of wanting something, we understand that the way you mean it. We understand that the way you often use it. But when you put too much emphasis behind it as being something that must happen in the way you have envisioned it happening, very often you’re actually limiting yourself and limiting the way it could happen much greater than you imagine because the physical mind, as we have said, is limited in its way of imagining things. The higher mind in a sense can imagine more. So when the physical mind seeks to control and says, “Well, I want this and if this doesn’t happen then something must be wrong,” then you are actually closing the doors through which the higher mind could give you something better than the physical mind was capable of imagining, and thus you are actually shortchanging yourselves.

But the idea also to remember is that every single thing is its own state of being. And the idea of wanting something is exactly that. It is a state of wanting. It is not a state of having. So if you insist on wanting, wanting, wanting, you’re going to remain in a state of wanting and you’re not actually going to be able to have, to really manifest, to experience the focus of your wanting because all you’re doing is saying you want it and therefore you will continue to do nothing but stay in a state of wanting it and it will never arrive. That’s another reason to understand that wanting is not necessarily in your best interest. But needing is.

Now, the idea is that when you again find yourself in circumstances and you might find yourself being confused about what’s going on and what do I really need here to really allow myself to move forward in life, to really act on my passion to the best of my ability with no insistence on an outcome—what do I really need in life to be who I really am? To allow my life to grow, to expand in the most joyful possible way. What do I really need?

So, in this transmission, we have broken it down for you to the seven basic needs. Now, we call them the neutral needs because these are the basic things you need to survive in your life. The idea is not so much that you have to assign a meaning to them—which is again why we call them neutral. They function automatically in a certain way by themselves although you can certainly color them with your belief system and imbue them with different meanings and different emotions and different definitions and so forth. But by themselves, they are just the basic fundamental needs that are required for you to exist in your physical reality experience. And anytime you find yourself caught up in any kind of circumstance where you find yourself wondering what kind of state of being is really most beneficial for you to be in, you can always use these seven neutral needs to go back to a ground state, back to a fundamental state and start again from zero, start again from scratch and recognize that in many circumstances you really are getting what you need. And by focusing on the seven neutral needs, it can also aid and assist you in understanding the difference between what you may really need in that moment as opposed to what you are saying you want in that moment. And it can act as a clarifying system for you.

Now, the seven neutral needs, shall we say, have different time frames associated to them because they are things you really do need to experience your physical reality. You will find that some of them you need all the time. Some of them can take weeks before you realize you need it. Some of them can take years before you realize you need it. But you really need them all. The idea is that without them, you will either quickly or slowly die. That’s how you know they are actually fundamental needs. The ones that take years in a sense can seem misleading because you might feel, “Well, I’m still fine. I’m still breathing. I’m still moving along.” And so you can fool yourself into thinking you don’t need it or that you are altering it in a way that is not really in alignment with the need. But nevertheless, all we’re saying is the difference between the needs that are quick and the needs that take longer is just that you either die quickly or you die slowly over time. And when we say die, we are also talking about the idea of your energy, your spirit, your willingness to live, your feeling that you belong, your feeling that you fit, your feeling that you are empowered. These things with negative beliefs can over time wither in a sense and appear to die, causing you to slowly die over time when you could be living a more vibrant life, a more energetic life.

**The Seven Neutral Needs Listed**

So, what are the seven neutral needs? Thank you. We’re glad you asked. In order of how long they take to kill you if you don’t do them, we start with:

1.  **Air:** You need air. If you don’t have air, you will be dead pretty soon, within a matter of minutes. So that’s the quickest one. You need air to live in your physical reality.
2.  **Water:** Next, you need water to live in your physical reality. Without water, you will probably die in about a week. So that’s a little longer.
3.  **Sleep:** Next. Now, many of you may be thinking, “Well, next I need food.” That’s not the next thing. Next, you need sleep. You need to dream. You need to reconnect to spirit. That’s what sleeping is for. That’s what dreaming is about. You need to re-energize your physical battery. Without sleep, you will only last about 11 days and then you will die.
4.  **Food:** Next is food. You need food in general. Now, please understand before we go on, of course, there are always some exceptions. There are people who are of a state where they can be breatharians and so on and so forth and they may seem to not need food for longer periods of time. I’m not talking about the exceptions. I’m talking about the general populace on your planet. So in general, you need sustenance of some form or you will find in about 2 to 3 weeks you will start to die.

Now what’s next? Those are the four main ones that happen pretty rapidly. Now we enter a new phase where things can take months or years.

5.  **Shelter:** So what is next is you need some form of shelter. Now when we say shelter, we don’t necessarily mean it has to be a building or a house. Your environment can be your shelter if it is the kind of environment in which you can thrive. So for instance, people on your planet who might live on a tropical isle where the weather is always fine will find that that will be shelter enough and they won’t necessarily have to live in a dwelling in the classical sense. But you need some form of shelter even if it is simply your environment that is beneficial to you. That is still a shelter. The shelter of nature, the shelter of earth that is in accord and in alignment with the human form to sustain it.
6.  **Connection/Relationship:** Next, you need some form of connection, relationship in some way. I understand that sometimes people may be on journeys where they seem to spend a long time alone, but that doesn’t mean they’re not in a relationship. The relationship doesn’t have to be with other human beings. It can be with animals. It can be with trees. It can be with spirit. It can be with a rock. It can be with God. But it’s a relationship. You have some sense of connection to life, connection to nature, connection to existence and spirit, connection to your essence and your being. You have a relationship with all that is in some form of expression. Without that, again, it may take years but you will slowly die without that connection which brings you back to the idea of sleep because again that’s what the sleep is for, to make that connection. Now as we have said, on our world we no longer eat, we no longer sleep because we are always connected, we are always sustained just by the energy of the universe. We have evolved to that point and eventually you will too. But right now, again as a generality, you will find that most of you need some form of relationship, some form of connection, some form of exchange with consciousness, some form of reflection that allows you to get in touch with the things you need to be more of who you are, the things you need to grow. This is a true need.
7.  **Creative Expression:** The final need is what you might call creative expression. In other words, when you allow yourself to be who you are, it must be expressed. This is where acting on your passion falls in. This is where you express the aspect of creation that you are. You express the connections that you’ve made. You express the energy that has sustained you in life. So you need some form of personal creative expression that is unique to you, that allows you to know, that allows you to shout that you are alive, that allows you to shine, that allows your spirit to be counted, to be seen, to be known, to be felt, to be understood.

Those are the seven neutral needs. And again, the idea of some of the later ones like not expressing yourself creatively, not expressing, not stating who you are in some way, shape or form by following your passion can take years to kill you if you’re not doing it. But you will slowly be dying.

Now again, there may be moments when you go through phases where you’re not doing it. That’s fine because again, those phases may be there to teach you something. As long as you understand that one of the tools in the kit of following your passion is the reflective mirror that reveals to you anything you might be holding on to in your unconscious mind that is out of alignment with your truth, that is out of alignment with what you need, and you allow yourself to address it, then that’s the point. That’s the purpose of having that moment of discovering something that is not your excitement in that moment so that you can let it go and add its energy to your overall excitement and express yourself in grander ways.

The idea therefore paradoxically of the reflective mirror while you’re following your excitement revealing something to you that is not part of your excitement is part of your excitement. To find out what doesn’t excite you is part of your excitement. Because when something manifests in your life that might be representative of what you don’t prefer, you can use that in a positive way by recognizing that it might be there as a clarifying point to show you what you don’t prefer much more clearly so that you can see what you do prefer by contrast much more clearly. That’s how to use what you don’t prefer in a way that you do prefer.

So again, the expression of your truth, the expression of your being by following your passion to the best you’re able with no insistence on a particular outcome because you really don’t know what’s supposed to happen. You may think you do, but that’s where you go back to the negative ego. That’s where you go back to the idea that the ego thinks it has to control everything. That’s where you go by the idea of wanting. “I want this to happen. This has to happen. It’s really got to happen or something is wrong. Something went wrong somewhere. I’m off my path.” No, you cannot be off your path. You are your path. The only way you can experience as if you’re off your path is by assuming that something that has happened in your life cannot possibly be there for a positive reason.

Remember, remember, remember this is what you need to remember. It doesn’t matter what happens. It only matters what you do with what happens. That’s the key. That’s the secret. But when you find yourself in a puzzle, in a conundrum, when you feel like you have forgotten, just go back to the seven neutral needs. Let’s see. I’m still breathing. I’m doing pretty good. Got number one on the checklist checked off. Got that down pat. I need some water. Oh, all right. I might be a little thirsty. Might be a little dehydrated. All right. Glug glug glug. Check that off your list. I need to get some sleep. I’m feeling really tired. Why am I tired? I’m exhausted because I’ve been trying to be someone I’m not, which is the most tiring thing you can do. So, I am now excited about resting. Rest. Regenerate. Connect. Re-energize your batteries.

Now perhaps when you wake up, you are hungry. Get some food. Put it in your body. Whatever it may be that works for you. Listen to your body consciousness. Listen to your intuition. You don’t have to force yourself to be more spiritual. Yes, it’s important to lighten up. But when your energy is on a higher frequency, you will automatically lose the urge to eat certain things that might have a heavier energy. There is no reason to force yourself there, which is an oxymoron and it doesn’t work anyway. Listen to your body consciousness. It knows what you need and it knows what you don’t need. So pay attention to that.

Then. All right, got that all checked off, those first four biggies. And now some shelter. The idea of: are you in the environment that excites you? Because remember when we talk about doing what excites you the most and following your passion and acting on it, it has to be a complete thing, a holistic thing. Doing what excites you in the way it excites you, how it excites you, where it excites you, with whom it excites you, will automatically allow your synchronicity to lead you to the place that is most representative that will bring you the form of shelter or environment that you need to allow you to be who you really are and continue to grow. And also the idea of connection. It will again synchronistically bring into your life all those of whatever type of being that really is most representative of the connections you need to make in order to discover more relationship, more about yourself, more reflectivity, more information that you might need to add to your understanding of your being and your theme of exploration in this life and help you grow and expand. And then finally, yes, the expression of who and what you are. Your purpose in life is to be you as best as you possibly can. That’s your purpose. The expression of your purpose will be as different as there are as many people because that’s just an expression of your purpose. Your passion is the expression of your purpose. But the vibration, the frequency of your passion is who you actually are. Is your frequency of existence, is your essential self. So expressing yourself, acting on your passion to the best you’re able with no insistence so you don’t get caught up again in that idea of wanting which isn’t necessarily aligned with what you truly need. And if you can check all those off, you’re doing pretty good. You’re really doing all you need to do. You’re really doing the best you can. And you can start relaxing into the idea that life works automatically. You can start allowing synchronicity to work for you in positive ways rather than negative ways because remember synchronicity is always working. Always. It never stops. But there is negative synchronicity. And when you buy into negative beliefs, fear-based beliefs, then you are feeding the machine with negative energy and it can only produce negative synchronicity and allow the things to happen or not happen that will continue to perpetuate the idea of the downward spiral of negative synchronicity. But when you feed it the positive energy and stay in the positive vibratory state no matter what’s going on, no matter how it looks, you are feeding the machine with the positive energy that will allow you to experience synchronicity in the positive way. This is just physics. What you put out is what you get back because physical reality isn’t real. It’s just a mirror. It’s just a projection of your consciousness.

So allow yourselves to always go back to those neutral places. Allow yourself to recognize that you have what you need. And if you’re going to find yourself wanting, then at least want what you need and nothing else. Because what else do you need, but what you truly need? You already come in with everything you need. It’s not always manifest. You don’t always see it right away because there is a timing to the unfolding and the appearance of these things. But all that timing is baked in. It’s there right here with you. You don’t have to force it. It will happen in perfect timing. That’s the way it’s designed. That’s the way it’s structured.

So remember, remember many people on your planet talk about the idea of, “Well, surrender to it. Surrender to the flow.” And many people because of the way you’ve been taught to believe things think, “Oh, surrender. Well, that means I’m giving up control.” No. Surrender is simply giving over to the control you already have built in. Surrender is giving up on thinking that the ego has to control everything. All the ego has to do is keep you focused in your physical experience and go along for the ride. That’s all it’s designed to do. That’s all it needs to do. Don’t burden the ego with more than it was designed to handle. Otherwise, it starts getting a little bit crotchety and it turns into the negative ego. “Oh, you want me to handle that? Oh, okay. Oh, wait. I have to have this, too. Oh, all right. Now, I have to make that happen. Oh, I’m beginning not to like you very much. So, I’m going to start playing some dirty tricks on you, and I’m going to make you think that you need to have this when it’s just a want. See if you like it when I overburden you with the things you’ve overburdened me with.” Yes, the ego knows how to play that game.

So, let the ego do its job of simply experiencing your life, allowing you to have the focus to experience a physical reality. Because remember, that focus is all it is. It’s just an imposition on yourself of a particular point of view that allows you to experience something called physical reality as if it was real. It’s not. Your natural state is non-physical, so to speak. Your natural state is spirit. You never leave spirit ever. You’re just dreaming that you have left spirit. You are having a dream in spirit that you’re not in spirit. That’s what physical reality is. It’s just a focus. In the same way that when you go to sleep and you have a dream and it seems very real and then you wake up and you go, “Oh, well, no matter how real that felt, this is who I really am.” Well, no, not really. This is actually the dream. You’ve just gone to sleep. And when you go to sleep at night and you dream, that’s when you actually have woken up because you are more of yourself in that state, more connected, more aware to your spiritual essence. That’s why time doesn’t make sense in dreams because in the spirit realm, time is that malleable, that flexible. It doesn’t really exist in the same way because it’s just part of your dream that it exists. Time is just a side effect of your consciousness experiencing things in a certain way. So you can have the experience you call physical reality which is just a dream within your consciousness.

Is this making some sense? All right then. At this time we will thank you for allowing us to share these ideas with you. And I would like to then return the gift you have given us by asking in what way now may we be of service to you. If you wish to begin with your comments and questions, you may do so if you have a need.

***

**Question 1: Hybrid Seven and Dragons**

**Participant:** Nice to meet you. Good day. I usually reading Japanese so he can... Do you have a translator? Yeah. All right. I have two questions. Is it all right?

**Bashar:** Well, that was one question. So now you I guess you have three. So what are the other two?

**Participant:** She participated in contact retreat by Lisa Royale this summer and in that retreat Lisa channeled a being called Hybrid Seven but she doesn’t understand that being about that being so well so um do you have any idea what kind of being is this? Could you explain that?

**Bashar:** Yes. The concept that is being referred to on your planet as Hybrid 7 is a recognition that eventually as your species on Earth evolves, you’re going to evolve into what we have called the sixth hybrid race. But then all of the six hybrid races, including us and the others, will merge eventually in the millennia to come into the seventh hybrid race. So Hybrid 7 is a symbolic energetic reflection of the ultimate hybridization, the ultimate evolution of what you now consider yourself to be as the human race.

**Participant:** What is your next question?

**Bashar:** Sure. Okay.

**Participant:** She wants to know the difference of the way in the way she wants to ask about the dragons and so she wants to know the difference between how the dragons are told in the west and how the dragon is told in the east. There’s a difference between the way the dragons are told.

**Bashar:** Um, yes. Yes. Yes. Well, in a sense, it’s a cultural interpretation. The idea of the dragon is a symbol of a connection to an ancient source of wisdom, an ancient source of knowledge. So when the energy of the dragon which represents a higher level being, a higher level consciousness, is interpreted through physical beings on the earth there will be filters in each culture that will interpret the symbol in the way that they need to to understand it in a way that applies to their culture. A dragon is a representation in your reality of a higher level multi-dimensional being that has many facets. And therefore, like a hologram, those facets will be seen from different perspectives and will be represented in different ways because it is channeled through into your reality, different facets for different belief systems, different perspectives. But it all goes back to one kind of being or one level of consciousness. Does that make sense?

**Participant:** Makes sense. Thank you so much.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

***

**Question 2: Politics and Parallel Realities**

**Participant:** Hello Bashar. Good day. It is so nice to be in your presence again, old friend.

**Bashar:** It is a joy for us to be in yours.

**Participant:** Now, my question is, can you help me get a perspective on what’s going on in our crazy political system?

**Bashar:** You know, I can tell you that what’s going on in your crazy political system is that you are all crazy. Now, to go into deeper detail, as we said a little while back in your terms of time, everything would change in the fall of 2016. I guess you now believe us. Yes. This is our gift. It is a gift because here’s the way we framed it. Before that particular threshold crossing, many of you were floating down a gentle stream. Now suddenly you’re hitting the rapids. Something very unexpected has happened. Upset the apple cart, as you say, went in a direction you least expected. You’re riding the rapids. All right. But remember this. If you learn how to maintain your balance in the rapids, you get downstream that much faster, don’t you? Yes. So, it’s actually an opportunity for acceleration in the direction you actually prefer by riding the wave of what you don’t prefer in a positive way. Because if something so unexpected can actually happen, anything is possible. Yeah. Okay. And if you understand how to stay in that state, that frame of mind, that energy, and that attitude, then that wave, no matter how negative it might seem from one point of view, will push you along much faster as long as you maintain your bubble reality and contain within it the energy state that you prefer.

Remember that what’s happening now is literally, this is not a metaphor anymore, literally a splitting into different parallel realities. Yes. And so even though you might still be able to observe the other parallel realities and the people in them that might be representative of what you don’t prefer, just because you can observe it doesn’t mean it has any ability to affect you. It’s like looking through a glass wall. You can still see it, but nothing can get through that wall to you unless you’re the one that breaks the glass and says, “Come on in.” Do you understand?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So, you’re really beginning to truly see the splitting of the different parallel realities. And in the years to come, somewhere down the road, you will find less and less ability to find people in your reality that are not vibrationally compatible with your reality. But right now, it’s still a mixed bag. Right now, you can still observe all the different realities that your world is splitting off into because you still are making up your mind about what you really prefer. You’re still examining all your belief systems and you’re still creating definitions and giving meaning to these things and practicing how to give the meaning that you prefer. So, they’re all going to still be around you because as you expand your consciousness, remember, you’re going to see more of creation, not less of it. And when you see more of creation, you have to see more positive and more negative because then it all becomes an equally balanced choice. Just because you may choose what you prefer doesn’t mean you invalidate what you don’t prefer. It’s an equal choice. It’s an equal path. It’s a valid way to go. But you can say no thank you without invalidating that energy because invalidating what you don’t prefer is what sticks you to it because you’re giving it more importance than it needs to have. But when it’s all neutral and you say, “Well, you know, you are wonderful negative side because you are by contrast showing me more clearly the positive that I prefer.” Remember you have a saying on your planet: a candle light shines more brightly when it’s surrounded by darkness. Yes. Yes indeed. So if you use it that way and just keep focused on the light and use the dark to help illuminate it to show you where that light is, then you will remain in the state of being you prefer. You will experience the things in your life that you need to experience that are correct for you. And it doesn’t really matter what anyone else decides to do because they’re actually not really affecting your reality. Does that make sense?

**Participant:** Yes, it does very much. Yes, it does. It just gets so seductive sometimes to react to it.

**Bashar:** That’s a belief.

**Participant:** Yes. Okay. Yeah. That’s a belief system.

**Bashar:** If you’re saying that the negative side, the dark side is so seductive. Well, the mind only reacts because you believe what you believe. Oh, you’re giving the mind something to react to. Remember, there is no such thing as an emotion in a vacuum. Yeah, you cannot feel anything until you have a definition of it. So when you have a feeling, that’s your first clue. You must be defining and labeling something in a certain way in order to have the reaction or response that you’re having. You can always then backtrack from your behavior, your thoughts, your emotions to the question, “What must I believe is true about myself in this situation in order to feel, think, behave the way I am?” Got it? That will reveal the definition. And once you reveal the definition and bring it to light, then you can say, “Well, this makes no sense. Why am I buying into this definition? It doesn’t really serve me.” And then it’s gone. Because as soon as a definition makes no sense, you don’t hold on to it. If you still do the same things, all that means is you haven’t found the fundamental definition. Keep looking. Okay? Does that make sense?

**Participant:** Absolutely. Does this help you?

**Bashar:** Absolutely. Thank you very much.

**Participant:** You are very welcome.

***

**Question 3: Ocean Experience and St. Louis Valley**

**Participant:** Good day. I saw a rectangular shape floating in the ocean a few years ago and then an orb in red in color came towards me and then right after that I felt as if though I was taken down into the ocean into a cave. How exciting. It was very exciting. And then I saw this blue or blue-like pulsating thing inside of the cave and I knew to put my hands on it. And as soon as I put my hands on it, I was thrust back through the water and back onto land. And then I went underneath of the trees and I saw the roots of the trees. Yes. And I was wondering if you would like to bring some clarity to the situation to me.

**Bashar:** You experienced a dimensional shift that was instigated by making a contact with certain forms of consciousness that are capable of doing that and helping you project in those interdimensional ways so that you can experience your physical reality from a broader spectrum, from a broader perspective. Congratulations.

**Participant:** Thank you. Was it fun?

**Bashar:** It was very fun.

**Participant:** It affected my life to where I feel as if though I’m now learning who I am and what I’m here for.

**Bashar:** Many times many of you will be given these kinds of, shall we say, triggers, these experiences where there is a certain vibration attached to it. From that point forward, understand that whatever that felt like at that moment is the frequency now to come from in life and act from in all the things that you do. You’re given the frequency that is representative of a more holistic representation of yourself. So even when you remember what it felt like, even if it doesn’t feel exactly the same again, know that you’re in the correct state just by remembering what it felt like then. Because here’s the trick. Remember, you cannot perceive what you’re not the vibration of. So even the ability to remember what something felt like means you already are in the state that gives you the ability to remember that experience. So that’s the trick. Just by remembering the experience and what it felt like, you’re already in the state. Even if it feels different, it’s going to feel different because you’re different. And you may need to apply it in a different way. But you can use moments like that should they occur in your life as markers and reminders of the energy state that is most you and thus to act from that state in all the things that you do that are representative of your passion in life. Does that help you?

**Participant:** Yes, it helps very much. And also in southern Colorado, there’s an area called the St. Louis Valley. Yes. And there seems to be a lot of occurrences there that would replicate helicopters from the early 1950s appearing to people. And I was wondering if you knew what it was that was occurring in the same...

**Bashar:** Well, it’s a couple of different things going on in that vortex because it is a strong vortex. It is a strong interdimensional gate. Now, a few of the things are actually interactions and visions of things that are in your terms going on in the 50s because remember everything actually exists all at once. And sometimes when the vibrational gates between different time frames as you create them in your consciousness sort of match or align or dissolve for a moment, you can peer into what seem to be other time frames. However, some of the other things that are going on in that area are organizations you might call deep cover organizations that exist sort of parallel to your governments that will often use outdated machinery to confuse the people that might see them. Because if somebody says, “Hey, I saw a helicopter from the 1950s.” Oh, well, you’re nuts. You understand?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** And there is a few other things going on there that we will not get into at this time. Does that help?

**Participant:** It helps very much. Thank you.

**Bashar:** You are welcome.

***

**Question 4: Fever, Dreams, and Language After Death**

**Participant:** Good day, Bashar. Andrew, you good day. So on the way here, driving to Sedona yesterday, I came down with a really heavy fever.

**Bashar:** Oh, how exciting. What are you burning off?

**Participant:** That’s what I was wondering if you could help enlighten...

**Bashar:** Well, are you letting go of outdated old belief systems, negative belief systems? Are you in the middle of that process or is that something that you are desiring to do?

**Participant:** I believe I am.

**Bashar:** Constantly. Well, sometimes you will accelerate the process that way and with the extra energy you’re using, it can translate into what you would experience as a fever. I see. You follow?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** It means you’re receiving higher frequency energy. You may not be allowing it to flow as readily as it could. There may still be some resistance in there. And when you have resistance, let’s say for example in a wire, what happens? Shorts. It heats up. Heats up. Yeah. So, if there is resistance to the higher energy that you’re making connections to because you haven’t necessarily cleaned your attic out yet of negative belief systems, fear-based belief systems that you’re working on letting go of, it can translate into the idea of some of these kinds of symptoms. It’s a typical thing when you channel higher energies for these kinds of symptoms to come up. They’ll abate when you allow yourself to let go of the things that don’t work for you, streamline yourself, and allow the higher energies to flow through you more freely by becoming more superconductive.

**Participant:** Yes, I see. Does that help?

**Bashar:** That does. Thank you. Anything else?

**Participant:** Yes. One other question in regard to language and reference points. It’s my understanding when we dream we could be on ships, we could have different experiences, we could be figuring things out, but our memories of these dreams are still sort of translated into our modern day symbols that your physical mind can understand to explain or express it.

**Bashar:** Yes. Right.

**Participant:** So, what happens when we die? Are we able... do we get lost or what if there’s... get lost?

**Bashar:** Not lost. No, you get found.

**Participant:** Get found. I guess reference point-wise, if we don’t have the reference point of the language, how do we... how do we make sense of it all?

**Bashar:** Well, remember that language is a secondary translation of the idea of the expression of concepts within consciousness. So, you simply immediately have an understanding. You might call it telepathy. You can call it what you want, but you have an immediate recognition and understanding of concepts that come to you whole. There is no need for the translation through language anymore because you’re getting the concept directly in your vibrational state because that’s the first way that information is delivered is simply through resonance, through vibration of energy. I see. Does that make sense?

**Participant:** It does. Is there a way to have that direct experience?

**Bashar:** Of course, you have it all the time. Have you never experienced the idea of what you people typically call an immediate gestalt or a download or an aha moment where you just get it?

**Participant:** Absolutely. Yes.

**Bashar:** That’s what it’s like. You just get it. It’s just all there.

**Participant:** Are there any techniques we can do to just get...

**Bashar:** Follow your highest passion to the best you are able with no insistence on the outcome and everything that needs to happen for you will happen in the correct timing. That’s the formula. That’s the tool.

**Participant:** Yes. Yes. Understood. Does that help?

**Bashar:** It does. Thank you.

**Participant:** Thank you.

***

**Question 5: Past Lives, Karma, and Psychics**

**Participant:** Good day. My question is when we’re born into this reality, why is it that we forget our... I guess our past lives? And how is it that we can remember more of our past lives?

**Bashar:** All right. Well, first of all, you forget your past lives because you don’t have any. None of you do. Everything exists at once. The past is an illusion. What you’re calling past lives, you call that because you’re coming from a linear space-time frame of reference. The idea is that you make those connections to other simultaneous incarnations that exist exactly at the same time you do. When you come from the present, you make those connections. You say, “I need to make this connection. I need to make this connection. I need to download information and experience from that person in that life and that person in that life and that person in that life.” From my perspective, they may seem to have lived 300 years ago. From this perspective, they may seem to be living 300 years in the future. But these are the connections I need to make from the present in order to download the information I need to help me with my theme in this life. Just as they may be doing the same with me to download information that helps them with the themes they are exploring in their lives. It all happens in the present. There’s no such thing as a past life in that context. Do you understand?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** But the bigger question is answered this way. You forget so that you can remember from a new perspective. Because if you only exist in a timeless state, there is no change. There’s no growth. There’s no difference. You have to forget who you are to remember who you are from a new point of view to discover something new about yourself. Because you see the structure of existence never changes. It’s eternal. It’s infinite. It’s always the same structure. It’s existence itself. What changes? What expands creation is that your perspective and experience of the structure keeps changing. Now I’m looking at it from this point of view. Now I’m having this experience of the structure. Now I’m seeing it this way. Now I am this perspective. That’s what expands creation infinitely. The structure never changes. Does that make sense?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So you have to forget who you are to remember who you are from another point of view to add to the sense of who you are and grow.

**Participant:** Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:** So the only perspective let’s say that you could come from where you could say yes this is my life and that is my life and that is my life is from the oversoul perspective because all those lives are extensions quite often of the same oversoul. But as a person on this level, you are you. You have never been anyone else. And no one else ever has become you. Because the very idea of being an individuated person, persona, an individual soul is that you are an individual and you remain so because you’re unique. That’s a unique experience. You can create the experience as if you have had other lives, reincarnation and so on and so forth. But that’s not mechanically what’s happening. All the lives already exist. But your consciousness can shift in ways to give you an experience as if you’re remembering another life you had. But that’s just a perspective of linear spacetime. Is this making sense?

**Participant:** It is. But then how does karma carry over from...

**Bashar:** It doesn’t. That’s the point. The belief that it does is what allows you to experience that it does. When you understand that it’s just a belief and it’s just about being in balance with who you prefer to be, then there is no karma. So, in a sense, you have balanced your karma by getting to a point where you realize that there really isn’t any karma and it’s just about being in the state you prefer to be in. Does that make sense?

**Participant:** It does.

**Bashar:** Now you may also be referring to the idea that when you set up a theme in life to explore, you do create a kind of destiny. You do create a kind of momentum, certain kinds of things that you must explore as part of that theme. And if you want to refer to that as karma, you can. But it’s not really coming from the past lives. It’s coming from the present in the sense that it’s simply representative of the challenges you need to face to explore this theme fully. So you work with the idea of destiny or karma and free will both together in a certain way. In spirit you could say this is the theme I’m going to explore and there you are. That’s the hallway you will walk down. Now how you walk down that hallway, that destiny, that karma, that challenge, that theme you’re exploring is up to your free will. You can run, you can walk, you can fly, you can jump, you can be happy, you can be sad, you can go upside down, right side up, you can go backwards, you can be forwards, you can go side to side, look in every door, ignore them all. That’s your free will about how you will walk down that karmic hallway, that hall of destiny, but walk down that hallway, you will. Although in your modern day and age because you are expanding your consciousness more and more and more and more, one of the options that’s now available to you is to actually change your theme without dying. You can finish one theme, you can finish one hallway, one destiny, one karmic route and actually create another while you’re still alive. More flexibility, more malleability, more freedom is now a choice on your pallet, a new color for you to choose.

**Participant:** Yes. Is this making some sense? Is this helping?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant:** And I’ve got one more question. I beg your pardon? I’ve got one more question. I’ve been to a psychic before and I’m always in awe in what they know because I always start without telling them anything. How is it? What is the mechanism of where they get their information?

**Bashar:** Understand there is no such thing as a prediction of the future. Yes, they’re simply sensitive people who are picking up on the vibrations of the present that seem most probable to keep going in the same direction if the momentum doesn’t change. They’re simply reading the energy of the present and letting you know what it is so that if you like it, if you like where it’s going, you can simply stay on that path. But if you don’t prefer it, you can change the path. Thus rendering the psychic prediction obsolete. Yes. The idea of being psychic is simply being sensitive to more energies, higher frequency energies, and translating them through in a sense into language that others can understand. It’s like being some form of, shall we say, electronic instrument that can pick up on certain vibrations that you can read in the needle. The needle being the language. Yes. Yes. So that’s all. But as you follow your passion, as you do that to the best you are able, as you do it with no insistence on a particular outcome, you increase your sensitivity to higher frequency information.

Yes, it’s as simple as that. An example of that idea is the way our society functions in pure synchronism. Everyone is exactly where they need to be, when they need to be there, with whom they need to be. And the idea is that we don’t really function on memory. We simply know what we need to know when we need to know it. It’s as simple as that. No different than the idea of being psychic. It’s just being in tune with what you need to know at that moment because you’re in tune with more of yourself.

**Participant:** Yes. Yes. Does that help?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant:** Thank you. Thank you.

***

**Question 6: Atlantis, Etheric Energy, and Dampened Sensitivity**

**Participant:** Hello Bashar. And you good day. First I’d like to thank you and the Sassani for your service.

**Bashar:** It is our pleasure.

**Participant:** I’m currently on a trip around the world. Oh, experience different cultures and learn from them.

**Bashar:** Wow, what a coincidence. I’m currently on a trip around the galaxy doing the same thing.

**Participant:** Cool. I want to do that one day, too. But for now, I am very passionate about ancient mysteries. So I’m after this I’m on my way through South America. Basically going overland Mexico, Central America down to South America. Yes. And based on the readings of Edgar Cayce, he said Atlantis was in the Bermuda Triangle sort of area. A large portion of it was in the Caribbean. Yes. Involving what you now understand as the Bahamas and Cuba and Puerto Rico. Yes. And certain areas in the North American landmass and in the Yucatan Peninsula and a few over in the European side as well. Remember that when it was described as being bigger than Libya and Asia Minor in some of your literature, it meant as an empire, not as a land mass. I understand that. And you said they influenced Egypt, but I was wondering what other cultures in this region in Central and South America was also influenced technologically by Atlantis. And what... like I met a Mexican guy who said there’s a site called Tula in Mexico which I’m going to check out. But I would well...

**Bashar:** Again there are colonies in many places especially in the idea of the Central American area, the Yucatan Peninsula, the coasts of South America and many of the Caribbean islands are all part of what used to be the Atlantean Empire.

**Participant:** But are there still remnants that we can go look at today?

**Bashar:** There are a few. Although from what we perceive from space, I wouldn’t recommend going into that area right now.

**Participant:** Yeah. Well, I’ll give it a go. I put out positive vibes.

**Bashar:** Good idea.

**Participant:** The other question is to do with etheric energy. Since my ability to feel energy has sort of been dampened in this lifetime somewhat, I’ve been very dampened.

**Bashar:** Dampened by what?

**Participant:** I don’t know.

**Bashar:** I’m sure you do. It’s dampened by your belief system.

**Participant:** Well, maybe maybe there is nothing else that can dampen it.

**Bashar:** So, what do you believe about yourself that makes you conclude that your ability to sense energy has been dampened?

**Participant:** I just noticed the way that other people interact with each other is different than what I do.

**Bashar:** Well, who says you’re supposed to interact like them? See, I realize that it’s happening for a reason. And what would that reason be?

**Participant:** Well, it’s not distracting me from other goals and purposes that I’m meant to fulfill.

**Bashar:** Then why would you call it a dampening instead of a necessary focus? Why define it in a negative way instead of a way that works for you?

**Participant:** Thank you. That’s what I meant. Thank you.

**Bashar:** You feel less damp now?

**Participant:** Yes. Thank you. And you actually helped me with that throughout the session. But all right. My question is how did your society first technologically learn how to measure and manipulate etheric energy?

**Bashar:** Well, do understand that as a hybrid society, in a sense, what you might call an artificially created one, we had a little bit of a head start. Yes. Yes. We were given a lot of knowledge. Therefore, we didn’t necessarily start in the way that you did. But we had our own challenges. We went through our own evolutionary path and we had to learn things in similar ways to you. But we did have a head start. So we understood from the get-go that such things existed and such things were possible and over time because we were taught in what direction to go to train ourselves to become sensitive to that ultimately we simply did.

**Participant:** So any hints for us to sort of scientifically start to explore this... can you give us any suggestions on where to start scientifically investigating etheric energy?

**Bashar:** Well, many of your scientists and physicists are beginning to understand certain things, different kinds of fields that exist, but the one that they haven’t really touched on yet is the idea of a consciousness field that will give them everything they need to know if they start looking in that direction. That consciousness also expresses itself as a field. Does that help?

**Participant:** Thank you very much.

**Bashar:** Does that help? Thank you very much.

***

**Question 7: Air Quality, Detoxification, and State of Being**

**Participant:** Hello and you good day. This is really exciting. Yes it is. I have a feel... I’m really appreciative of the seven neutral needs that you brought forward. All right. And my question pertains to the first neutral need and that is air. Yes. And I’m curious about when air quality is compromised or when food quality is compromised or water for that matter. Yes. And what it is that we can do to support ourselves in achieving receiving those needs when things might be compromised.

**Bashar:** Well, first of all, depending upon your belief system, you can find that it might be wise for many of you in the consensus agreement upon your planet to simply take an opportunity now and then to detoxify your system. Yes. Because if your air is polluted and your water is polluted and your food is polluted, then those pollutants will lodge in the cellular structure of your body and you will not be capable of absorbing the nutrients that your body needs to remain in a healthy state because the absorption is being blocked by the toxins. So if you as thoroughly as possible detoxify your body, then you will find that you can absorb the nutrients of the food that you take in, which would be as natural and organic as possible and free from toxins as possible. And then your body will have the elements it needs to deal with just about anything. So doing that on a relatively regular basis, once every 3 months, 6 months, year at least, may allow you to maintain a balance.

Now, of course, it also has to do with your belief system, but again, as we said before, it doesn’t necessarily work to force yourself to say, “Well, I’m supposed to be more spiritual about this, and I should just be able to believe that stuff away.” Yes, it’s possible, but if you don’t really believe you can believe it away, then it might actually be the path of least resistance to just do the detoxification. You have to be honest within yourself about what you actually believe is most likely to be done by you, what you’re most probable, most capable of actually doing. And eventually, as you practice, yes, you can gain a handle. You can get more practice and more experience with just knowing how to shift your belief so that those things belong to another reality and they no longer affect you because you’re in a different reality where they never did affect you. You understand?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** But if you are honest with yourself and don’t believe you’re actually at that point, then follow the path of least resistance that synchronicity brings to you because that’s still a product of your belief. It’s just that you’re using a permission slip that is a reflection of what you believe is possible for you. And that’s the easiest way to circumvent the old belief system by using a permission slip that gives you permission to do so or that allows you to give yourself permission to do so more easily than sitting there straining to do it in a way you think is supposed to be more representative of being a spiritual uplifted being. You follow me?

**Participant:** Yes. So I’m curious if you can offer any like encourage any particular ways to detox.

**Bashar:** I just gave you an idea, but there are companies that do exist on your planet that already have various formulations. If you do your own research, you will see that there are certain substances on your planet that are very good for causing detoxification effects in the body. But since we have been asked this question over and over and over and over and over and over again and again and again, we have directed many to the company that does exist on your planet in the channel’s general location that has created an extremely effective detoxification program and that organization is referred to as American Botanical Pharmacy in your Los Angeles area. Great. So you don’t have to reinvent the wheel.

**Participant:** Okay. So, I live in Denver and we were really affected by a lot of the smoke coming south from a lot of the fires in Montana and in Oregon and so it was advised to stay in your homes and have these really high quality air filters and whatnot. And so that’s, you know, that just felt very confining to me and it felt like, wow, I’m in a reality that I don’t like right now and I would like to switch it. And so that’s kind of where that...

**Bashar:** All right. But again, remember what happens happens for a reason. And it’s something that gives you a chance to practice remaining in a positive state rather than assuming that it has to change. Because remember, if you are, shall we say, of a state where you are allowing what’s happening outside to determine your state, then you are not in a self-empowered state. It’s about choosing the state you prefer regardless of what’s happening outside because that’s the true measure of change. The true measure of change is not whether the outside world changes. It’s whether you choose the state you prefer even if the outside world stays the same. Because then you’re proving you’ve changed and you’re not making the change conditional on what’s going on around you. You are using what’s going on around you in a way that is reflective of the reality you prefer as a state of being. Does that make sense? And then it will probably change. But you can’t quote unquote want it to change because then you’re saying that you can’t be in the state you prefer to be in unless it changes.

**Participant:** Absolutely. You follow?

**Bashar:** Absolutely. So stay in the state. Use it that way to remind you of the state you prefer. Take action on the things that are commensurate with the state in a way that you prefer to. And then it may change, but you can’t need it to change.

**Participant:** Thank you. That’s not one of the needs. Needing something to change.

**Bashar:** Change is a constant. It’s one of the laws. Things will change, but you can’t need it to change because you don’t need it to change. You can use it the way it comes to you to change yourself.

**Participant:** Yes, absolutely. Does that help?

**Bashar:** Totally. All right. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you.

***

**Question 8: Breathwork, Flat Earth, and Dimensional Reality**

**Participant:** I love you. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Our unconditional love to you as well. Thank you for being here.

**Participant:** I’ve been exploring and I’d like your assistance or... I’ve been exploring the idea of like what you just said circumstances do not matter, materializes, that the main thing is your state of being which materializes. So that’s had me going for quite a few years and without a story I had a couple of near-death experiences. How exciting. Yes. That’s the only way I go uncle and I get something that’s being presented to me and hidden in plain sight. Yes. So since years ago with your breath, we started there and then when I nearly... I was cut off with pneumonia. So I couldn’t do the toroidal breath complete, you know, up and down the channel. So then I came to just out of survival because I really was about to leave the body and that’s when I discovered the gulp of the divine receiving into the heart sending it in a triangular pattern and when I hit it on accident during this experience within moments I went from really looking 104 and I went back to like 40s and I have people in the audience that’s actually seen that. So, what did it... I don’t know what it did, but I’m asking maybe you can add something to the equation for this presentation. It’s like pushing a reset button. Okay. Rewire.

**Bashar:** That’s good. So, now if you with everything you’ve said today and we’re navigating, so to speak, and aspiring to a frequency to where we are present in the I Am presence. Yes. And with me and my experience and what I’m sharing is connecting with this breath that when measured on a narrow headset measures you as a vortex as above so below so below. Yes. Now to me I find that it’s kind of a navigational tool to be used to be as present as you possibly can in any given moment through like you said the state of being in any circumstance. Then that’s the way you’re using it as a permission slip. Okay. And it but it actually does something physiologically to the body so that you’re all there, not just, you know, in one compartment.

**Bashar:** But it’s not doing it. You are.

**Participant:** Oh, absolutely. I mean, that’s a given. I mean, in my reality, thank you for saying it because I didn’t bring it up. Now, I don’t really care if the Earth is flat or round, but lately I’ve been presented with the fact which kinds holographically speaking, we’re all kind of joined in this simulation today, right now. Yes. From all over the planet and planets and and all of a sudden it kind of makes sense when you look at the ancient symbols where they do show the upper and the lower. Yes. And it makes sense in a holographic way to actually manage in some amazing way the endless nano particles that is existence. Yes. So I’m thinking by first step the trinity that’s the triangular breath always a trinity not just a duality there’s always a center point right and then moves into the other shape the other triangle and then the circle the square and then on out. Yes. So in my experience, I just don’t I’m thinking it’s it’s hidden in plain sight in everything anyway. Always is. Exactly. So now, do you have a comment to say about flat earth?

**Bashar:** Flat Earth. Long time ago, when extraterrestrials first arrived to observe Earth, it was very, very flat. Flat as a pancake. Well, even flatter than that. But then some enterprising individual on the earth finally traveled to the point where they found a valve sticking out of the side and they blew into it and blew into it and blew into it and inflated the flat earth into a ball which is where it is now. I guess you could say that individual must have been full of hot air. And that’s what we have to say about that.

Understand that the earth is expressed like anything in a number of dimensions. In some dimensions, you would perceive the planet as two-dimensional, flat in your language, as you say, but that’s a perception of another dimensional expression of the Earth. The Earth in your dimension isn’t flat. It’s a sphere because that’s how it’s expressed in your dimensions, three of space and one of time. And there are higher dimensional versions of the Earth as well. But when people start expanding and exploring their consciousness in new ways, sometimes they can take some things a little too literally in the same dimension when what they’re perceiving is aspects of things in other dimensions because now their senses can stretch far enough to see that. But they sometimes misunderstand and assume that what they’re perceiving in another dimension is actually the truth of this dimension and it’s not. It’s just an overlap.

**Participant:** Yeah, back in the ancient days, you’ll see all these models of of, you know, like that kind of an idea of a flat earth with an underworld. And then now they’re coming back to it. But I think that what they might be expressing is not being able to say it as you did, the dimensional reality of that that exists all at once. They need to understand the multi-dimensionality so that they can determine and discern which is relevant as an expression for each dimension, not just assume that just because they might be perceiving one dimension that that is the expression in this dimension.

**Bashar:** Correct.

**Participant:** Well, that that’s good because there’s a few people that that really are amazing beings, but they’re leaning toward the flat earth, but I think that...

**Bashar:** Well, then they need to go and find the valve and start blowing into it. Blowing it up.

**Participant:** Well, I needed to give him a good answer because all I could do is give my own. And yes, does this help you?

**Bashar:** That helps me a lot. Thank you. Thank you, Shivi.

***

**Question 9: Crossroads, Abundance, and Acting on Excitement**

**Participant:** Good day. Uh, it’s my first time coming to your house. What a coincidence. It’s our first time interacting this way with you, too. What are the odds? Pretty good. All right. Speak up and be bold.

**Participant:** Gosh. My mom put my name in and it got picked. So now I’m now I’m up here.

**Bashar:** So you mean you actually didn’t have a question to begin with? I mean, is that what you’re saying? There’s always questions.

**Participant:** Um, yes, there are always questions, but you didn’t actually walk up intending to have one. Is that what you’re saying? There’s been a few questions going on in my head. Such as well I’m kind of at a crossroads in my life where...

**Bashar:** That’s exciting isn’t it? Maybe maybe... would you prefer that it is exciting?

**Participant:** Of course.

**Bashar:** Then why not allow it to be?

**Participant:** I do very exciting things for work right now.

**Bashar:** Yes. What’s the crossroad?

**Participant:** What to do. I’ve climbed to the top of my job right now.

**Bashar:** So, what would you rather be doing then? What’s more exciting?

**Participant:** It’s called catastrophic adjusting. That is the job name.

**Bashar:** Can you be more specific about defining what that means?

**Participant:** When there is a catastrophic disaster, yes, I will go there and help people out.

**Bashar:** And that is exciting to you?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So, you are doing that?

**Participant:** I am not.

**Bashar:** Why not? I thought you said it was exciting for you.

**Participant:** This is the crossroad.

**Bashar:** But if that’s your excitement, it’s not a crossroad. It’s a straight path. It’s about getting there. Yes. It’s about acting on it. Because if you don’t act on what excites you the most, you won’t have any clue where you actually need to wind up. You will stand only in the crossroad, not knowing where to go. When you act to the best of your ability without any assumption that it actually has to come to fruition, then you will see where you actually need to wind up because synchronicity will deposit you where you need to be. But you have to take the first step by actually taking whatever action you are capable of taking on the thing that excites you the most. Even if you don’t insist that it has to actually work out that way, you will only find out where you’re going to wind up if you take that step. You follow?

**Participant:** Sure do.

**Bashar:** That’s how it works. That’s how the mechanism works. You have to take the action to find out where you actually need to wind up. Yes. So, what action could you take in the direction of your excitement?

**Participant:** It’s all about the money right now, I guess.

**Bashar:** No. No, no, no. It’s hard to get past. Don’t put conditions on it that don’t need to be there. Change your definition of abundance. Our definition of abundance is the ability to do what you need to do when you need to do it. Period. That’s it. That’s it. If you understand how the machine works, how the mechanism of existence works, you will understand that there is a much broader definition of abundance than you’re allowing for in your life. As long as you have whatever form of support you need to be able to do what you need to do that excites you, that you’re passionate about, you are abundant. If somebody gives you something, that’s a form of abundance. If synchronicity comes into your life that allows you to experience something, that’s a form of abundance. Don’t insist that money is the only form. I understand it’s a valid form of expression on your planet. That’s fine. But when you focus too much on one form of abundance, you close the door through which other forms can come because you’re not recognized them as forms of abundance. Sometimes things may need more than one form. Maybe a little bit of money will come and the rest of it needs to be given to you or you need to be given something and then synchronicity will fill in the gaps. You need to allow for all forms of abundance to appear in your life so that you can see that it will support you in allowing you to be able to do what you need to do when you need to do it. The insistence on only one form stops you and makes you stand at the crossroads wondering what to do. You have to lighten up your definitions, broaden your definitions, and choose definitions that work for you for these things and act on your excitement. That’s the formula. It’s an instruction manual. Please all of you understand these ideas we are sharing with you are not just nice sounding philosophies. We are actually giving you an instruction manual for how reality works. It is absolutely no different than if someone were to give you an instruction manual to operate one of your automobiles. Oh, I see. Oh, I put the key in the ignition. I turn the key. Oh yes, the engine started. Flip, flip, flip. Oh, there’s this thing called a gear shift. I put it into this gear. If I step on the gas, the car will go forward. If I step on the brake, it will stop. If I put it in this gear, it will reverse. Step on the gas. Step on the brake. Oh, I see. It’s an instruction manual for how the car works. And if I follow it, the car will work. All of these concepts we’re giving you are not just nice sounding ideas. We’re actually describing the instruction manual to existence.

So if you understand that the formula of actually taking an action on the thing that excites you to the best you’re able, taking it as far as you can till you can take it no further with absolutely no insistence or assumption as to what the outcome of the action should look like or where you should wind up. If you actually follow that formula, you will wind up where you need to because you’re actually activating the way reality works. It’s an instruction manual. Does that make sense?

**Participant:** Sure does. Does it help?

**Participant:** Yes. It’s it... Yeah. I mean, I’m just nervous, but yes. Yes, it does. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Nania, do you wish it to be your turn?

***

**Question 10: Love, Negative Actions, and "Bad Things"**

**Participant:** Yes. The question that came from one of our Ustream listeners was, “How can terrible things happen if everything is made of love? How can a being of love commit terrible deeds and still feel okay with it?”

**Bashar:** Understand that what you’re calling love is simply the vibration of existence itself. And remember that it’s not love, it’s unconditional love. Therefore, because everything is positive, negative, and neutral, unconditional love does not judge the negative. It loves it equally with the positive and the neutral because unconditional love knows that the negative can serve many purposes. So the idea is to recognize what you prefer and be in the state that you prefer that is representative of the balancing of those three energies so that you can then act on the energy you prefer. But the idea is that existence isn’t committing anything. It’s not in a sense actually acting. It is everything. It doesn’t really need to act. It doesn’t really need to have an intention to do anything. It is everything. But it can experience itself as pieces of itself, as reflections of itself, which is what all of you and all of us are. And those reflections from their point of view can decide this is what I prefer, this is what I do not prefer, but still acknowledge the unconditionality of existence in that there are these choices positive, negative, and neutral. That’s just the way it’s structured. And all we’re talking about is a mechanical energy in a sense. Positive energy is simply that which is collective, connective, expansive. Negative energy is simply that which is disconnective, contractive. And in that sense, therefore, you’re only talking about something that is a type of energy, an expression, and an experience of energy. There’s no value judgment on it. Therefore, it’s about what tools you need to use.

In tomorrow’s transmission, we’re going to cover this a little bit more because when we talk about the idea of limitations unlimited, we’re going to explore these concepts of positive and negative a little bit more thoroughly and perhaps that will also give you a deeper understanding of what we’re talking about in a way that might answer that question more fully. All right.

**Participant:** Okay. All right. Now, is it time for your nutrition break? But I did have a follow-up question. A followup. Oh, all right. So, it’s sort of like along the idea of when what appear to be bad things happen to good people. Yes. And I guess the whole idea that being on Earth means dealing with negative and dealing with neutral. But I’m going to stop you right there.

**Bashar:** Yeah. You know why? Because you’re going to talk about it tomorrow. No. Because the phrase itself, “bad things happening to good people,” is a very arrogant phrase. You have no idea why that’s happening to someone. You don’t know what they’re going to get out of it. You don’t know why that’s there. It’s not your life. It’s an observation from outside. And even if the person themselves says that, “Why do bad things always happen to me? I’m a good person.” That’s a value judgment. And it doesn’t necessarily take into effect exactly the reason why that was created. Yes, it’s possible that some things are manifest from negative and fear-based places, of course, but you can always benefit from what’s going on. It doesn’t necessarily always look like what you think. It doesn’t look like what you think. It doesn’t always mean what you think it looks like. You don’t know why that’s happening for that person. Something that may to you seem to be the worst possible thing that could happen to that person may be the best possible thing that ever happened to them in their lives because it might change them in ways that they don’t believe they could have changed in any other way. You don’t know. You have to take it on a person-by-person, case-by-case basis to know what’s really going on mechanically with the positive or negative energy that might be being experienced in those scenarios. You cannot necessarily just give it a blanket idea that oh that’s a very bad thing happening to that very good person. That shouldn’t be happening. You have no idea why that’s going on until you really investigate it. So the blanket statement itself is a fallacy and misleading. Make sense?

**Participant:** Yes. And it makes sense that whenever you’re challenged really intensely by things like that that it all comes down to whether or not you can find the state of being that will allow it to transform.

**Bashar:** Exactly. And it’s not even about finding it. But I know what you mean. It’s really just about making a decision that that’s the only choice you have to be in the state of being you prefer and that there simply isn’t any other choice that makes sense to you at that moment. Period. It’s nice that creation handed you a key. Exactly. And now you can enjoy the fact that creation will hand you some food. Take your nutrition break. We will resume this transmission after your break. Thank you.

***

**Question 11: Presence, Self-Love, and Childhood Trauma**

**Participant:** Hello Bashar and you good day. Okay, I got my name speak twice. So, I think I’m desperate sort of. Okay, I have two challenges right now. Yes. One is how to be present and another challenge is how to love myself. How to love yourself? Yes. How to be present? Yeah. May I ask you a question? Sure. Is there any time when you actually aren’t present? When you are past or future, are you here now physically?

**Participant:** Yes. But I have sort of anxiety and then my mind is racing all the times racing racing racing racing thoughts.

**Bashar:** Well, what are your fears? What are you afraid will happen to you? That’s what I’m asking. Say again. That’s what I’m asking.

**Participant:** I don’t know what my... I’m afraid of or what.

**Bashar:** Of course you do. Of course you do. I’ll ask it this way. Starting with this line of questioning. Are you living your highest excitement? Yes or no?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Then how can you be afraid if you’re living your highest excitement?

**Participant:** I don’t know.

**Bashar:** So the clue is in that answer. If you are experiencing fear you are not living your highest excitement because if you’re actually in a state of excitement there is no definition of fear within it. When you experience fear you have left the state of excitement. Do you understand?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So I’ll ask the question again this way. What are you afraid will happen if you continue to act on your highest excitement? Think of it now. What are you afraid will happen if you continue to act on your highest excitement all the time? What are you afraid might happen?

**Participant:** I will be somebody else.

**Bashar:** What’s wrong with being somebody else? Because the only somebody else you could possibly be is more of yourself. If you’re acting on your highest excitement, when you give over to fear and choose fear, that’s when you’re not being you. That’s when you’re being somebody else. So, since you’re already being somebody else and you’re used to doing that by giving into your fear, why not stop being somebody else and be yourself by acting on your excitement?

**Participant:** Probably because I know what or who or what kind of person I don’t want to be. But still I’m not quite clear about what kind of person that I want to be.

**Bashar:** But if you start at least knowing what kind of person you do not prefer to be, I’m crystal clear. Then what’s left? If you are doing everything you can to not be the person you don’t prefer to be, would that not mean automatically that what’s left is being the person that you do prefer to be? What else is there?

**Participant:** Well, I don’t know exactly. Nothing. Probably that’s what I’m afraid of, that somebody that I don’t know.

**Bashar:** But there are many things you don’t know. You will never know everything. Do you think you have to know certain things before you can simply act on your excitement?

**Participant:** I have OCD. I really want to know everything.

**Bashar:** You can’t know everything. It’s not possible for you to know everything. And in fact, knowing everything is getting in your way. Do you understand? You’re not allowing room to flow. You’re not allowing room for spontaneity. You’re not allowing room for synchronicity. Insisting on knowing everything before you’re willing to take a step is the surest way to stop yourself from taking any step because you will never know everything you need to know. You can’t. Your physical mind isn’t capable of knowing everything it needs to know to move through life. May I ask you another question?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Have you ever been given a present? Pardon? Have you ever been given a present like on your birthday? A gift? Have you ever been given a gift?

**Participant:** No. Never? No one’s ever given you any gifts ever in your life on your birthday or anything? Well, I can count it with my fingers. One hand.

**Bashar:** Why have you never received gifts from anyone?

**Participant:** Probably that I’m hungry of love because I never get loved.

**Bashar:** Well, you have to start with loving yourself. Why should anyone else love you if you don’t love yourself?

**Participant:** That that’s my challenge. As I said, so what’s stopping you from loving yourself?

**Participant:** I don’t like myself.

**Bashar:** Sure you do.

**Participant:** I I I don’t like myself.

**Bashar:** But that must only mean that you don’t think you’re worthy of it. Why don’t you think you’re worthy of it? How? How? Why don’t you think you deserve love?

**Participant:** Oh, probably because of my childhood trauma. I was constantly denied by my mom and humiliated by her in...

**Bashar:** Oh, all right. But now you are not a child anymore, are you?

**Participant:** No, but that trauma is still there. The pain is still there.

**Bashar:** Who says the trauma is still here? You do. You’re making the connection. You’re creating a past connection that no longer exists. You’re assuming the trauma is still with you. You’re creating a continuity that doesn’t have to be there.

**Participant:** But but I got confused one night. I sort of remembered those sad memories and let it go.

**Bashar:** But you are creating those memories now. You see, you think remembering is of the past. It’s not. You’re creating memories every moment. So those memories are still serving me... sort of in...

**Bashar:** They don’t exist for you if you understand that they don’t exist for you now because every moment you are a new person literally. Yes. In order to experience what you’re calling a memory of the past as if it’s real, you have to actually recreate that over and over and over and over again. You have to say this is part of who I am right now. This is part of who I am right now. This is part of who I am right now. And you’re doing this billions of times per second because you have created an assumption that you have to do that. You don’t. You can break the continuity. Whatever happened didn’t happen to you. It happened to someone else because you are no longer that person. Literally. Literally no longer and never have been that child. You can actually reidentify, redefine yourself right now as a completely different person who never had that past, who never had that history. If you understand how reality works, you are zero every moment, square one every moment, back to scratch every moment. And the only way that it seems as if that’s your past is because you are continuing to believe and insist that it is when it’s not. That’s another person. She has nothing to do with you. You have nothing to do with her except for the pieces that you want to remain connected to that you believe serve you at this point. But if there are pieces you believe no longer serve you, then they’re not real for you because they never happened to you, the person you are now.

Okay, this is literal. It’s not a metaphor. The way you experience physical reality, the way you experience time, it’s a side effect. Time is a side effect of your consciousness shifting through billions of versions, parallel versions of yourself every second. It’s like frames on a film strip where the projector light has to go through each frame in order to create the illusion of movement and time and change. But this frame over here really has absolutely nothing to do with this frame back here. They’re two completely different frames. And when you decide to project your consciousness light through a different frame, you will see that this frame has nothing to do with the other frames if you don’t prefer that it does. This is actually physically how reality is constructed. A frame at a time, billions of times per second. So every moment you get to decide what frame you are, how you define that moment, who you are in that moment. And it doesn’t have to have anything doesn’t have to have anything to do with who you have ever been because that wasn’t you. Is this sinking in a little bit?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Let this idea percolate within you. Start exploring. Really start understanding and wrapping your mind around the fact that you truly literally are a different person every moment. I know that when you look in the mirror and you say, “Well, that still looks like my face.” It’s not the face that was there a split second ago. It’s another one that you’ve created to create the illusion of continuity, the illusion that you’re the same person. Person and personality are artificial constructs. How you define them is how you experience them. So all you’re actually saying is at some point in what you call the past, someone convinced you to buy into a belief system that you are the same person every single moment and that what happens to one version of you must continue to happen to all the other versions of you. That’s one way to experience reality, but it’s not the only way. And it is absolutely false in a general sense. It’s only true if you have bought into it as a truth. But if it no longer serves you to think of yourself that way as having been that child because it simply doesn’t resonate with you anymore and the things that were done simply don’t serve you anymore to hold on to, you have every right and every power to let that go because it actually doesn’t exist for the new person you are every moment until you say it does. You are in complete control of feeling out of control. You can never be out of control. To be able to have an experience of being out of control, you have to be in control to create the out-of-control experience. That’s what you’re doing because you have been convinced that that’s what you must do. But there is absolutely no rule within creation that says you have to do that. You can decide every moment who you are and you can decide that what was has nothing to do with what is. It’s up to you. I understand it may take you a little practice to wrap your mind around this concept of how reality is structured and that’s all right. But we would recommend and suggest that you do practice that and wrap your mind around this understanding of the nature and structure of reality because it will set you free. When your mind finally grasps it, you will be free to be who you prefer to be.

**Participant:** Yes. Yes. Thank you. Another question, please. I’m a massage therapist. Yes. And I’m really happy about what I’m doing right now. And I understand what you said, all techniques are permission slips and healers never heal. And but I’m still curious about the idea behind acupuncture and meridian lines. Please, you must repeat that. Okay. The traditional Chinese medication. Yes. The idea is people have energy lines. Yes, I understand. Yeah. The meridian lines and also actual acupuncture point. Yes. Yes. Yes. So what’s the idea behind that?

**Bashar:** The idea is that everything is a vibrational pattern of energy of consciousness. So some people can work with that are sensitive to that can understand how to read those energy maps and other people simply don’t get that. They don’t work with that. They don’t work that way. How it works? It works through resonance through vibration. In other words, any healer is doing this. No matter what the technique, no matter what the permission slip, all healers are doing the following thing. They are creating a resonance within their own energy field. And that resonance, that vibration is representative of the balanced healed state. When a person comes to you to be healed, what they then do, if they wish to, if they believe they can do, whether they know it or not, they attempt to match the vibrational field you’re giving off. And if they choose to match it, if they choose to synchronize and harmonize with that energy vibration in your field and create that same vibration in their field, like two tuning forks vibrating in harmony, then the state of being that you are suggesting to them will then allow them to experience that in their own field because they’ve matched that frequency and they will heal themselves.

**Participant:** So it means take both sides the healers and the patients to agree that this technique works.

**Bashar:** Yes because sometimes many people may go to a healer with the strong belief that they cannot be healed. Therefore, if somebody does not experience a healing or a balancing and goes away, you have still given them what they asked for because they still came to you to prove they can’t be healed. So, they got what they wanted. So, you’ve still done them the service of simply being there for them to allow them to prove to everyone they cannot be healed. You have still given them that gift. Okay. Thank you. Does that help you?

**Participant:** Very much. Thank you. Thank you.

***

**Question 12: The Kitten, Fevers, and UFOs during Eclipse**

**Participant:** Hi Bashar. How are you? Good day. Good day. Recently about two months ago I had a private with you. Yes. And leaving that private my boyfriend and I picked up our new kitten which was very exciting. And then a week later, our kitten protruded its organs out of its anus.

**Bashar:** Yes, that will happen sometimes.

**Participant:** Except for this kitten didn’t have the neurological pathway to close its anus. All right. So then its anus would be open forever. So we went down...

**Bashar:** Well, not forever, but yeah, not forever, but for this lifetime.

**Participant:** And so we went down the pathway of seeing a surgeon and seeing what we could do. And so we decided to ultimately put him down. All right. After seven days of having him. Yes. So what was the lesson for you?

**Bashar:** Yes, please. Well, what was the lesson for you? Let me put it this way. Imagining that entire scenario, what did you learn you otherwise might not have learned had that not happened?

**Participant:** I love taking care of people and things.

**Bashar:** So, what will you do with the lesson the kitten gave you?

**Participant:** Take care of my next kitten and my children with lots of lots of love.

**Bashar:** Does that help? Yeah. Can it be that simple? Can it be that obvious?

**Participant:** I didn’t feel like it was that simple cuz it felt very traumatic at the time.

**Bashar:** Yes. But many times animal consciousness will unconditionally provide for you a very simple and obvious lesson that puts you in a state that is representative of the state of what it is that is actually true for you and what you could be doing. They will give you the opportunity in a sense to practice with them.

**Participant:** Yeah, he definitely did that 100%.

**Bashar:** Then honor what the animal has done as a gift for you by carrying through what you learned about yourself and what it is you wish to do.

**Participant:** Yes. Yes. Does that help?

**Bashar:** Yes, that does. Anything else?

**Participant:** We then went and spread his ashes across Bell Rock. So, that was pretty fun.

**Bashar:** Oh. All right. Yeah. So you’re saying you made an ash out of the kitten?

**Participant:** Yeah, kind of. Kind of. Um, yeah. So, something else. Yes, we’re getting another kitten soon. So, that’s exciting as well. Something to take care of. But you mentioned earlier about fevers being a releasing. They can be. Yes. And recently, so a lot of the in my past, I’ve had a lot of in-depth dreams, and you and I have discussed that. And then I went through a recent period where there was two years of like no dreams at all. And in the last week, I’ve been having a lot of fevers in the middle of the night. But I’ve also been dreaming more. Yes. And that’s connected by releasing the energy and allowing it to flow in. These things will go in cycles. They will fluctuate. There will be different patterns within you as you gather the information you need and allow yourself more opportunity to become more conductive of the energy that you are asking for as an upgrade. Yes. So to speak and I’ve recently been asking more as I go to sleep, too. And again, the more you use it, the more you put it out there, the more it will flow through you.

**Participant:** Okay. So, I’ve been teaching more yoga as well and that really helps me flow my energy. All right. So, Okay. Does that help?

**Bashar:** Yes, that does. Thank you.

**Participant:** Something else was when we were watching little clips of the eclipse that just happened on our society. Yes. There was a lot of people who noticed these lights in the sky. Yes. Can you... You mean the stars? The stars or UFOs? Maybe sometimes, not always. Okay. But they were hanging out seeing what was going on in the eclipse.

**Bashar:** Well, yes, we will be talking about some of the significance of that in an upcoming transmission in your Los Angeles area over a 3-day period where we will be connecting some of the things we have talked about before with respect to certain parameters of our reality, how they are reflected in your reality through the devices that are known as epsilon, eclipse and epiphany. So we will shed a little bit more light on the idea of what is significant about the symbol of the eclipse at this time in your society during that transmission.

**Participant:** Okay, that’s wonderful. Yes, thank you. Thank you. Also, one more thing. No. Okay. Thank you. Goodbye. Tell my hybrid children I love them.

**Bashar:** Yes. Done.

***

**Question 13: Health Coaching, Brain Frequencies, and Tarot**

**Participant:** Hello Bashar and you good day. First of all, I’d like to thank you for I mean on behalf of humanity for being such a wonderful reflection.

**Bashar:** Oh, it’s nice to meet someone who speaks on behalf of the entire humanity. I’m I’m sure no one will mind I guess.

**Participant:** Um yes, good day. Thank you. And I marvel at your ability to make connections, energetic connections like this. It’s the same ability all of you have.

**Bashar:** So that is true. I know that’s why I said it.

**Participant:** But uh what I would like is some pointers. So when you were talking about the... I I’m basically let me talk about myself. I am a health coach. I don’t practice professionally. I just help friends and family. Yes. But I like the way you make the connections. Like this morning you make the connections on fever. Yes. And what it represents. Yes. I was wondering if I could go through the body and maybe you can give us some pointers that would serve as starting points for people. And when you are willing to be in the moment in a pure state of service and someone has a need, the information will stand out in your inspired mind. It will just be there for you because you are willing to function in the pure synchronism of being at the right place at the right time with the right person who may need something from you at that moment and in that moment you will know exactly what they need, what to say and what to do. That’s how it works. Okay. But still would it be helpful if you gave us some pointers? If I go part by part and maybe you can just say the significance. Maybe maybe not. Maybe maybe not. So starting with the brain like the afflictions of the brain where would you start to look at things?

**Bashar:** Well, you understand there are different frequencies that can occur within the brain. Yes. Yes. And again, in a future transmission, we’re going to be talking about this in more detail. But fundamentally speaking, when you go into different states, the brain really does exhibit different frequencies, very very dramatically different frequencies with very dramatically different properties. And those dramatically different properties will give you dramatically different abilities. What you typically would call the channeling frequency is what you call gamma above 40 cycles per second. When you’re doing what you love to do, when you’re in the zone in peak performance, you go into gamma automatically. You are in the channeling state. It doesn’t mean you have to necessarily express a different entity through you. It simply means you can be more in touch with more of yourself. The brain becomes high processing, completely coordinated, has the ability to access, synthesize, process, and output much faster in a much more holistic way. So that’s why we encourage all of you to do what you love to do because when you’re doing it, you’re in the channeling state. You’re in the gamma state. Now again we will talk about other states that go hand-in-hand with that in an upcoming transmission and we will give you at that time a particular tool called the circle of self-empowerment which takes advantage of the different frequencies that your brain can experience allowing you to become far more harmonic within yourself and far more capable of accessing the information that you need when you need it. So we will get to that in another transmission.

**Participant:** Okay, we’ll wait for that. All right. Thank you. And then eyes like generally when people have issues with eyes where would you say are you saying eyes? Eyes. Yes. Issues with eyes. Yes. Such as for example specifically like now that I am near 50, I need to wear reading glasses. So those are the kind I and in the past I’ve heard you make some connections for some people. Yes. That now it means you probably need to look inwards or some such thing. It might in general for most people have to do with issues of focus. Yes. Which is not necessarily always a negative thing, you know. No, but but I’m I’m saying like when when I speak to people and you said as you said things come to me and I delivered them. Let me stop you. Are you familiar with the deck of cards known as tarot?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Have you ever played with them?

**Participant:** Once.

**Bashar:** Keep doing it. Because what will happen is if you allow yourself to use that permission slip for you specifically, you will start to notice that as you become more proficient with it, different images on the different cards when you lay them out will start to stand out to you more than other images. Sometimes even an image that you might have thought wasn’t even there before, but now you can see it clearly. It’ll show itself as becoming larger. It’ll show itself as becoming a different color. It might start to glow. Whereas the other images on the same card might not. In some way, shape or form, the symbolic image on each card that you need to understand, need to see the reflection of, need to understand the symbolic information attached to will start to stand out as you become more proficient with that particular permission slip tool. So, we would suggest that you begin to play with that and see what happens. And as that begins to happen and things begin to stand out that informs you and feeds you the information you need in symbolic ways, we will see at that point what happens with your sight. Okay. All right. Yeah. Thank you. Does that help you?

**Participant:** What I was thinking when I heard the seven neutral needs. Yes. One of the ways to look at that from the health perspective would be that any kind of problems with the body would probably be a deficiency of any particular of those seven needs.

**Bashar:** Yes, that’s why we are suggesting that you use it as a foundation as a base and in any situation where you find yourself out of sorts always go back to the base. It will always bring you back to zero.

**Participant:** Okay. So that that would be a good way to look at things.

**Bashar:** It can be a good way for many people to do. Yes. Okay. So thank you for intuiting that and seeing that clearly. Thank you. And good day. Thank you. Thank you.

***

**Question 14: Manifestation through Drawing and Acting on Excitement**

**Participant:** Hello Bashar. Hi you. Good day. Good day. I want to ask you a question about... I’ve had several manifestations from my drawings. In what sense do you mean this? Like if I drew something, it would come true. Physical manifestation.

**Bashar:** All right. So that is your way of connecting and aligning and synchronizing with the energy of your manifestations. Yes. Sometimes there stuff that I don’t prefer.

**Participant:** Sometimes...

**Bashar:** Well, I already talked about that, didn’t I? Yes. If something happens that you don’t prefer, stay in the state you do prefer so you can use what you don’t prefer in a way that you do. Okay, that’s the point of it popping up. Remember, we talked about excitement. We talk about it being a toolkit. It contains certain tools. One of the tools is a mirror that reveals to you anything that is out of alignment with your excitement so you can identify it and let it go. You can’t work with what you don’t know about. You have to identify those definitions. And the fact that it comes up brought to you by your excitement even though the thing itself is not representative of your excitement. The fact that your excitement brought it up to you means that experiencing that being aware of that is part of your excitement. Figure out in your imagination how to use it in an exciting way in a positive way in a beneficial way. You’ll get the benefit from it and you’ll move on. Okay. And in my way of doing that is showing me what I want to do or what is my excitement.

**Bashar:** May I point out that you don’t sound very excited right now?

**Participant:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** Are you in any way, shape or form acting on the things that excite you the most in life?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Are you sure? Can you name one thing that is an expression of your passion that you do?

**Participant:** Drawing.

**Bashar:** All right. And why are you excited about that?

**Participant:** It’s something I’ve always been excited about. Something I’ve always been excited about.

**Bashar:** You sound so very excited. Are you sure you’re excited about it?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** All right. Anything else? Oh. Any other expression of your excitement that you act on?

**Participant:** Yes. My traveling. Videography.

**Bashar:** All right. These are all different expressions of your overall passion. Yes. All right. Also, UFOs and things of that nature. All right. And so, I’m acting on them. If you are acting on all these things and your life is moving forward, what else do you need to do? What else do you need to know? Is that not enough?

**Participant:** I guess it would be right.

**Bashar:** You guess? Yeah. Do you see where we’re going here? You sound confused more than anything.

**Participant:** Yes, I bet.

**Bashar:** What are you confused about? Is there something you feel is missing from all of these expressions of your excitement that you say you’re doing and yet there seems in your energy to be something that’s not there? What?

**Participant:** Yes. What? I I don’t I don’t know.

**Bashar:** Yes, you do. Is there something you would rather be doing that you’re not doing? Is there something you’re holding yourself back from doing because you’re putting rationalizations and conditions upon it? If you could do anything, if right now I could snap the channel’s fingers and say right now all bets are off, you can really do anything that is your passion. There are no limits on you, no conditions whatsoever. What would be the first thing that would come to your mind?

**Participant:** Drawing.

**Bashar:** Is that it? All right, I’ll ask it this way. You have expressed that drawing is an expression of your excitement. Yes. Yes. Yes. Are you doing it in the most exciting way you could be doing it?

**Participant:** No.

**Bashar:** Thank you for your honesty. Then that means you’re not doing your excitement. Are you following along? Remember when we said when you act on your excitement, it has to be what excites you, how it excites you, where it excites you, when it excites you, with whom it... remember all the components have to be in alignment. Yes. So, what is it about your drawing you would rather be doing in a more exciting way than you’re doing? How would be more exciting? How would be more exciting?

**Participant:** Very big. I have small canvases and I like doing big murals and I’m not doing that.

**Bashar:** And so that’s more of an expression of how to do it in a more exciting way. Yeah. One of the ways. Yeah. Yes. No. Yes. Are you awake?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So, when will you start doing it in the way that’s more exciting?

**Participant:** Good as time as any. Yes. Right.

**Bashar:** Will you do that?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** It’s up to you. Mhm. But use that for every expression of your excitement. Use that caveat. Am I doing what excites me in the most exciting way I could be doing it? Because as you were honest enough to admit, if there’s any hesitation there to say yes, the answer is no. Right? Any hesitation the answer is no. I’m not doing it in the most exciting way I could be. Otherwise, if you were, your answer would be an instant yes. So any hesitation or of course the word itself no means no. So find ways in which you can do what you say excites you in the most exciting way you possibly can in order to actually fully be in alignment with your excitement.

**Participant:** Yes. Yes. All right. Okay. Will that help?

**Bashar:** Yes. And yes. Can I have one more question or...

**Participant:** Yes. Have the Yay shown themselves yet? And if not when have they shown themselves?

**Bashar:** Yeah. In what sense? You mean physically?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** From time to time there are some that walk among you for temporary reasons, but not in an open way.

**Participant:** No, of course not. Otherwise, you’d know about it, wouldn’t you?

**Bashar:** Yes. Thank you.

**Participant:** Okay. Bye-bye. Thank you.

***

**Question 15: Blind Dog, Sensitivity, and Lessons from Animals**

**Participant:** Hello Bashar. Hi you. Good day. Good day. I want to ask you a question about our dog. He got sick and overnight he been blind. He couldn’t see and as a result of that he’s very sad and very scared and we scared too. And my question is how can I help him and help myself? Is there anything that he might be reflecting to you about what’s going on in your life?

**Participant:** Yeah, he he’s he’s not happy. He used to be a very happy dog.

**Bashar:** And is there something that has allowed you to tap into unhappiness within yourself? What do you mean? Is there anything that has happened in your life that you feel unhappy about? Or is there anything that has not happened in your life that you feel unhappy about not happening? Is the being reflecting unhappiness to you that’s in your life? Or is the being simply giving you a chance to express something that helps that being so as to put you in a different state in your life, a different place in your life that otherwise you wouldn’t necessarily have gone to. You wouldn’t necessarily have seen. Does it change you in a way that you need to be changed to help others or is it something that’s there to help you?

**Participant:** It changed me because I more sensitive to my environment to other being to animal to tree.

**Bashar:** All right. Then is there a way that you can use that lesson in your life?

**Participant:** So he he sacrificed himself to show me what I am.

**Bashar:** Did I not tell you earlier in a conversation that animals are unconditionally loving? Unconditionally loving. So it’s it’s a lesson for me to see thing different. It puts you in a different state and that different state is representative and symbolic and reflective of a state you need to be in to do something in your life that you’re not doing. Okay. So, what can you do with what you’ve learned from this experience? How can you honor what you learned from that being?

**Participant:** Wow. It make me cry for...

**Bashar:** Okay. Yes. Can you use your imagination?

**Participant:** I can figure something out. I can. Yeah.

**Bashar:** All right. I can. And when you do that, then it might be that you don’t need that reflection anymore. And the being will suddenly start to be happy again because you’ve learned the lesson it was teaching you. Can you see? Can he see? Can he? I am telling you in general how these things usually work. I am not predicting any one particular thing because we cannot necessarily see all the reasons that any particular being might create a particular scenario or experience. But I’m giving you a general path to follow. You will find out the specifics on your own because you’re a unique case. Okay. But use your imagination to figure out how to honor, how to express what you’ve learned in this experience with the being that’s put you in touch with this energy.

**Participant:** Oh, yes. Yeah. All right. Well, have fun. Thank you. Be happy.

**Bashar:** Okay. Thank you. All right. You will know what to do when you’re in the proper state.

***

**Question 16: Cryptocurrency, AI, and Future Currency**

**Participant:** Hello Bashar and you good day. I’ve been extremely interested and invested in cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin but yes more specifically Ethereum. This industry of decentralized digital assets are growing fast with a market capitalization of about $150 billion US. Yes, they were created to disrupt the current social structures of centralized power and authority by providing participants with a peer-to-peer trustless network of exchanging value and services. This is for mostly everyone else to understand what I’m understand.

**Bashar:** We would simply say that that is not completely the way in which it would align with a positive outcome because you are saying that some people have a perspective that it was created to disrupt as opposed to created to enhance and give life and growth to another way of understanding exchange. Yes. Yes. Yes. All right. That would be a way to experience a more positive relationship with that experiment with that idea. Right?

**Participant:** My question is what time frames do you see this technology will reach a tipping point of reaching the masses and shifting the way technology improves our lives?

**Bashar:** 25 to 50 of your years.

**Participant:** Awesome. And then around that time frame the 25 to 50 years what market capitalization would you would be probable for these cryptocurrencies?

**Bashar:** People’s skills, people’s abilities, people’s imaginations. The gifts that people have in 100 of your years will be the only currency necessary. What you’re doing now is a step along the road, but it’s just a step. It’s a conversion step. So it will be like sort of combined in a way with those as we have described to you. Not at the will be exactly at the same level at first. That’s all right. But as we have described to you, our society functions on pure synchronism. Therefore, synchronism is the capital. People are the capital. Being where they need to be to provide the service that others need and to get the things they need from those who are willing to provide the service to them. The right place, the right time, perfect synchronicity. Everyone gets what they need. Everyone gives what others need. It simply works like clockwork. It simply works. And that is ultimately what you will experience somewhere down the road. But you will begin to understand in about 50 to 100 years how this actually works to your benefit. And therefore everything that you’re doing now will simply be seen as a means to have converted from the old system to the new. It won’t need ultimately to hang around as a replacement system itself because you are all ultimately the replacement system. Thank you. You just don’t see yourselves that way now.

**Participant:** And also like in the current time like as opposed or in addition to it being a way of financially exchanging with others. What industry would you say it’s going to enhance first or not disrupt I suppose but what industry you mean what technologies? Aside from just financially exchanging with others.

**Bashar:** AI.

**Participant:** How so?

**Bashar:** When you finally create what you call artificial intelligence, you will realize sooner or later that it’s not artificial. You will realize that all you’ve done is create an external device through which you can actually communicate to your own higher mind. Oh, and that will open up the floodgates of awareness in your society.

**Participant:** And you would time that around that 20 to 50, 100-year time frame.

**Bashar:** You’ll find that this will begin most likely within the next 15 to 20 years at the outside. Amazing. As we read your energy now, because remember, no such thing as a prediction of the future, but that’s how we read your energy now. There’s a lot of momentum behind it. It seems unlikely, improbable that it will change course that much. But remember that we are also only talking about certain parallel realities. Therefore, get in that vibratory stream. That’s what you’re likely to experience. Because we are only really giving you a reading of the vibrational parallel reality that we will be engaging with you in. We do not give you readings of parallel realities where no such engagement occurs. So get on the right train.

**Participant:** And then blockchain technology, the tech that’s underlying cryptocurrency, I feel as though it came from like another galaxy or a higher dimension.

**Bashar:** Nope. Higher dimension maybe, but that’s because you had the ability to access it. By being in the proper state of mind as your own Einstein said, you cannot solve a problem from the same level in which the problem was created. You have to find the solution on another level. Yes. So when you go to that other level, when you begin to explore and expand your consciousness to other levels, those kinds of things occur to you because those kinds of things and that kind of information is what happens on those levels. You cannot experience what you’re not the vibration of. Conversely, whatever you are the vibration of is the only thing you can experience. So to look for the idea of broader big picture, more enhancing, more holistic ideas, you need yourself to be in a more enhanced holistic state of being. But as soon as you are, all those inspirations, all those imaginations, all those opportunities, all those ideas start flooding in. You won’t be able to stop them. But if you’re not on that level, you can’t even have an inspiration of those kinds. They’re just not commensurate with that level you’re on. You see?

**Participant:** Yes. Make sense?

**Bashar:** It does. And those vibrational states, that is the ultimate currency. Current. Thank you. Yes. The more you raise your vibrational frequency, the more conductive you become to higher currents of energy. The more currency you have, it’s not an accident that the idea of how you treat yourself is coined in the same language as your money. Money grows, what’s it doing? Appreciating. So the more you appreciate, the more you are in a state of grace, the more it all grows.

**Participant:** Yes. Yes, that makes perfect sense. That’s why I said it. And thank you for your pun. Greetings, Greetings, Elon Bash. To all of you and to myself.

**Bashar:** Yes.

***

**Question 17: Hurricanes, Parallel Realities, and Barking Dogs**

**Participant:** Wow. I am very excited. Oh, all right. Me, too. Standing here, the energy for people who never stand here, it is the hot seat. Yes, it is. It’s a lot of energy, but it is also the cool seat. It’s so cool. So, I’m really excited. Yes. Yes. And nervous. Yes. It’s very interesting. All right. So I will ask you a question about the hurricane that’s happening as we speak. Yes. And there I have many friends in Florida and they’re in prayer circles, drumming circles, singing, trying to trying to push the hurricane into the sea. Why?

**Bashar:** Exactly. So it’s not about trying to push the hurricane into the sea. Okay. It’s about changing your vibration and shifting to a parallel reality where naturally in that reality the hurricane takes that course because it already is taking that course in that reality. You never change the reality you’re in. You change yourself and shift to a reality that’s already reflective of the change you made within yourself. So again, there’s obviously got to be a parallel reality where the hurricane veers in another direction. Yes. Yes. So why spend time and energy attempting to alter a reality in which that doesn’t happen instead of just shifting to a reality in which it’s already happened? Yes. That’s the effortless way. That’s the path of least resistance.

**Participant:** So, we all here on Earth have that power and ability to shift our weather.

**Bashar:** Oh, let me see. I guess maybe. Well, yes. Okay. Maybe. Yes. Because so you’re doing it already all the time. Yes, we’re... That’s the point. Remember, please remember, we are not talking about something you have to learn to do. We’re talking about becoming aware of what you already are doing more consciously so that you can direct it more specifically and more consciously. It’s not something you have to learn to do. It’s automatic within you because it’s already how you create your experience of reality by shifting through billions of parallel versions every second. So, it’s a matter of just becoming more conscious that you’re doing that and then you can navigate the shift in the way that you prefer. You don’t have to learn to actually shift. That’s just a given. Yes. So, being in the proper state is the rudder that allows you to move through the series of parallel realities that are more reflective of the state you have now changed into as yourself. Yes. Does that make more sense?

**Participant:** Yes. Perfect sense. You might want to share with your friends in that area the difference in energy between what they consider to be praying for the hurricane to move as opposed to simply moving themselves to another reality in which that doesn’t happen.

**Bashar:** However, if it does continue, once again, you can also share with them. It’s not about what happens. It’s about what you do with what happens. Because how do you know? How do you know that this experience isn’t going to change your entire country in a way that it needs to change? Yeah. How do you know? You are creating your reality. And in a way, many times because you’ve never really all been taught, and many people on your planet are not taught to understand how to use the toolkit within them in a conscious way, they will do whatever it takes to wake themselves up. And sometimes if they don’t know any other way, they’ll do it in the most catastrophic way because it finally takes that to wake up. You don’t have to do it that way. But if they know no other way, you have to do it that way. So if you understand that’s what’s happening and you learn the lesson ahead of time, then yes, you can mitigate the effect by understanding what the lesson is and applying the lesson. And then it can shift because you’ve learned the lesson because you’ve shifted to a reality in which you’re the person that has learned the lesson.

**Participant:** Yes, clear. Thank you. I understand that. I I I really do understand it. And like I said, I am asking because I hear and read and see others who don’t understand what we’re speaking of here. Yes. So, um you know, we all want to learn how to deliver that the best way possible because I have many people reflecting back to me, which I know that is probably my belief. Yes. That oh that doesn’t work. You know, how can I leave the hurricane? I’m stuck in Florida. You know, it’s like and it is what it is.

**Bashar:** Remember that no matter how chaotic it may seem all around you, you, each and every one of you are the eye of the storm. Oh yes, you are all the eye of the storm. Be at peace, be calm, and understand and take responsibility in whatever way it’s relevant for you to do so about what’s going on around you for your own part in it. Learn from it and the winds will come.

**Participant:** Thank you for that. I will tell them so. All right. Up to you. Yes. So, in that creation myth in a sense, I’ll get back to home on a very minimal level compared to a hurricane. Last night we lay in bed and the windows are open. It’s a beautiful night in Sedona. And the neighbor’s dog starts barking. Yes. And we want that to stop. Why? Why don’t you... Don’t you like what they have to say?

**Participant:** I really was working with this and I have been for a while and yes, I listen to the dog of service to say, “What is it? Why is this happening now when I went to sleep?” Have you communicated something to your neighbors about this through the police so far?

**Participant:** Through the police. Well, we called once because we wanted to be anonymous at this point.

**Bashar:** Why? Okay, that’s a good point because we need to meet our neighbor. Maybe it’s all about the idea of making a connection, making a communication. Yeah. Opening up a line of dialogue. Remember that in general, of course, there are specific differences depending upon the case by case basis, but in general, the dog is the symbol of service. Yes. So, it might be doing you a service to open up a dialogue somehow that may allow you to more clearly state your preference and work something out with their preference and also maybe even open up a dialogue with the dog, which I’ve done with the dog because that was easiest first last night. Well, I’m laying in bed and it’s 2 o’clock. So, I...

**Bashar:** But if you’re laying in bed, you’re not opening up a dialogue with the dog because you have to speak dog language. Which means you need to be in physical proximity with the dog. Yes. Yes. How do dogs function? I understand what you’re saying. In packs, right? Are you the alpha?

**Participant:** Yeah. Or the omega.

**Bashar:** Yeah. Have a conversation. Okay. Find your place in the pack.

**Participant:** Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:** And that goes for your neighbors as well because that may be what you’re doing. Finding a way to create harmony in the pack.

**Participant:** Yeah. And I’m I was we were both very interested in how we it made us feel. It felt like well uncontrolled. Yes. And I can’t sleep. So you know how that all goes. It It’s just a sense of irritation that was so powerful. And I love dogs. We don’t not like dogs.

**Bashar:** We understand. But again, remember there is no such thing as an emotion in a vacuum. What you feel and the intensity of what you feel is a direct result of something you’ve defined to be true for yourself in life. Okay? So, at the very least, the dog may be putting you in touch with that. Okay? So, use that so-called irritation to find out what you would have to believe is true about yourself in order to experience irritation.

**Participant:** Yes. Yes. Yes. Understood?

**Bashar:** Because if you’re not using it in a positive way for yourself, you’re barking up the wrong tree.

**Participant:** Yeah. I know some of you were waiting for that. Yeah. Yeah. Right. That’s why I brought it up. So, okay. Thank you for that.

**Bashar:** You are welcome. Yes. And in that same place where I sleep, I’ve been sitting in the place where I’ve been sitting for the past three almost three months. And when we first arrived in this house, I sat and there’s an arch window to my left and above through I can see the trees, the beautiful juniper trees and the pine cones or pine cones and the sky. Yes. And I said, “Oh, that’s beautiful. Wonderful.” I went to sleep that night and I dreamt. Yes. And I had contact in my dream. All right. And it was very visceral, very real. And I was back in that place and I said, “I want to touch this craft.” So I reached out through the arch window and it it it was like a 5D experience where I could reach the craft and I felt the outer ring of this round ship. Yes. Out of curiosity. I Okay. Well, I was sensing Arcturan energies. Not exactly in that way though. It was a mix of things. You’ll pick up on different things, but it’s not our job to tell you at this time. I understand. So it was like a greeting. I accepted it as a greeting, a welcome. And again a state of being that you can come from in all the things you do in life.

**Bashar:** Yes. The gift of giving you an experience is the gift of presenting you with a state of being. That state of being remembering that experience puts you in the state of being from which to do things in your life when you follow your joy. That was me. Another version. A version of me on that cross. Another version is almost always involved in those encounters, right? So, so it was exciting. Thank you. Thank you. Pleasant dreams. Yes. Get along little doggy. All right.

***

**Question 18: Apparel Industry, Nano-Garments, and Imagination**

**Participant:** Hello Bashar. How are you? Good day. Hello Bashar. How are you? Good day. I want to know how do I shift myself into a reality where I’m able to initiate and contribute to a shift in the mentality of this particular industry that I feel is the industry for my of my highest excitement which is apparel industry which is right now one of the highest pollutants on Earth. Yes. And so so what do you want to do about that? Where’s your imagination?

**Participant:** I mean I want you I my my question for you I know what I want to do about it but my question for you what do you want to do about it? I want to initiate a mental shift. How? By through what actions? Through exposure, through voicing my opinion or...

**Bashar:** You mean also creating that’s all well and good but is there anything that you can actually create that would demonstrate the alternative?

**Participant:** I’m in a process of creating a brand which is going to be a sustainable apparel brand.

**Bashar:** All right. And what makes you think you need to do more than that?

**Participant:** Well my question was that like how do I how do you what with with that brand where do I go with that brand and what is the evolution what do you think I am your manager?

**Bashar:** Do you not have resources on your planet where you can find these things out?

**Participant:** Absolutely have absolutely that’s that’s not my not my question at all my question is and I’m sorry pro probably not even verbalizing it correctly my question to you is how the humanity is going to be evolving in a in a near few centuries in in our apparel in the things that we wear that will become friendly to the environment that we live in.

**Bashar:** Well, it can go in a few different directions simultaneously but ultimately will wind up where we have wound up which is we have what you would call a singular garment that is a product of a kind of nanotechnology. Do you understand the term? And that single garment becomes anything we want it to be. Huh? How? Through nanotechnology. It’s an artificially intelligent garment. You can actually tell it, “Now be red. Now keep me warm. Now keep me cool. Now turn into a space suit.” And it will do so because it has been programmed with all those abilities.

**Participant:** Is this something that we can achieve in our lifetimes here or it can...

**Bashar:** The question isn’t can you the question is will you huh but it’s it takes focus it takes a willingness to go in that direction. So if you can do something to inspire people who understand that technology to explore that opportunity in fashion, then maybe there is something you can do about accelerating that particular line.

**Participant:** Yes. Yes. So it’s up to your imagination as to how to do that.

**Bashar:** Okay. Thank you. You’re welcome. Is that sufficient?

**Participant:** No. I’d like to ask more if I could. Yes. Something that is a little closer to our current situation. I mean, I feel like a nano garment is is a far-fetched type thing.

**Bashar:** Then you will never ever see it because you believe it’s far-fetched. Being in a vibration where you believe it’s far-fetched, like we said, is not the vibration where you can be inspired by synchronicity to go down the path where it is not far-fetched because you are creating a vibration that is contrary to the reality you say you prefer. Now, I’m not saying there aren’t other ways you can do it. But I have given you one idea and that idea can be a seed that if you open up and go into the vibration you prefer may bring the synchronicity and opportunities to you that might not be exactly that but will be what you need, what will work for you. Mhm. But you can’t put insistence on it. You can’t put conditions on it. You have to allow the higher mind to bring you the things that will work for you in the order in which they will work. Even if at first it doesn’t seem as if they will, if they contain your highest excitement, it’s the excitement in the thing that tells you it is connected, not the form in which it comes. Follow the path of excitement, not the form in which it comes.

**Participant:** Yes. Got it. What are the other ways that we can...

**Bashar:** I just told you you’re going to have to figure that out for yourself with your own imagination. I’ve given you an inspirational seed. Just get on about acting on what you can act on. Physical action is required to the best of your ability in whatever you believe you are capable of acting on in the direction of your preference. Do something. Take a step and that will start the ball rolling and then you will see what you need to do. You will see what avenue to take when you put yourself in the proper state of being to be capable of seeing what opportunity to act on, what path to take.

**Participant:** I understand. Thank you very much.

**Bashar:** You are very welcome. The first thing about fashion is what you’re wearing as an energy field. Everything else takes its cue from that. Everything else.

***

**Question 19: Ancestral Work, Autism, and Alzheimer's**

**Participant:** Hi Bashar. Hi you. Good day. I’m very happy to be here and ask you some questions.

**Bashar:** All right. We are happy you are there. Thank you.

**Participant:** First of all, I have a deep interest in ancestral work and healing ancestral lines. Oh, exciting. Yes, I find it exciting. Yes. Is there a special way I should approach it or do you have some tips?

**Bashar:** There’s absolutely a perfectly special way you should approach it your way.

**Participant:** Okay. So, okay. So, I’m free to do it the way I feel is right.

**Bashar:** Absolutely. Who says you’re not?

**Participant:** True. Myself probably. Thank you. And is this something valuable for society?

**Bashar:** No, not at all. No.

**Participant:** Then I’m wasting my time.

**Bashar:** Yep. You’re wasting your time. And disappointing all your ancestors. Listen carefully. Yes. Yes. Listen carefully. Yes. What you are most attracted to do, most excited to do, most passionate about doing, you are passionate about not only for the reason because it is your essential vibration, but because it is the gift you have to give that someone is waiting to receive. Awesome. You can’t be excited about something in your reality that there isn’t someone around to receive it from you. Do you understand? That’s awesome because that’s really important for me to know. Yes. It’s what we call you can’t have a one-sided coin. Mhm. You follow me? Yes. As we have said, there is no such thing as a one-sided coin. If you have the head, there must be the tail. For you to be excited about something, for you to have a gift, it must mean there must be somebody in the reality that needs it, that is waiting to receive it. Okay? Okay. You follow?

**Participant:** I do. Absolutely. All right. Does that help?

**Bashar:** Absolutely. Now, I have another question. There’s this mass explosion of autism.

**Bashar:** I mean, we I am not going to address that at this time.

**Participant:** Okay. And Alzheimer’s?

**Bashar:** No, not going to address it at this time.

**Participant:** Awesome. Thank you so much. Thank you.

***

**Question 20: Needs, Lack, Meditation Frequency, and Channeling**

**Participant:** Hi, Bashar. And you good day. My question is in regards to needs. Needs? Yes. The needs, the neutral needs. When we talk about needs, how can we avoid the vibration of lack? Because need also means you don’t have it.

**Bashar:** Not that interpretation is what we’re talking about. Okay. Need in its most fundamental sense is simply that which you automatically need to sustain your life. Just as a flower needs water and sun. That level of need. We’re not talking about the idea of what you assume you need. Mhm. You have to be honest enough within yourself to be able to tell the difference about what you may be creating that seems like a need, but with true honest self-reflection may not be. In other words, you may be creating a limitation for yourself in a negative way. And there may be many other ways for you to actually get what you truly need other than the way you have concocted in your physical mind’s imagination. Does that make sense?

**Participant:** Yes. Thank you. Does that make sense? Yes. Thank you. Does that answer the question? Yes. All right. The next question is when I started meditation, I would hear a high frequency and it’s a constant frequency. Yes. And it’s getting louder. Is that a download? What is that?

**Bashar:** Again, it could be several things, but it also could be the idea of downloading higher frequency energies and creating a third harmonic. That is the difference between the original high frequency and the frequency of your present state. If there are any resistances or blocks within your definitions and belief systems, it can create a third harmonic that can manifest itself that way.

**Participant:** Okay. Does that help you?

**Bashar:** Yes. My last question is I personally experienced a channeling experience. Yes. And I wanted to ask you, how could I take it to the next level?

**Bashar:** Do you mean vocal channeling?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Have someone ask a question when you’re in the appropriate state. One of the easiest ways to allow yourself to quote unquote sort of get out of the way is to be doing it for someone else who needs the information because then you’re just opening up as a conduit and the information comes through you from another level to that person. Kind of like electricity will ground itself in the person asking the question because if it’s just for you, then you don’t necessarily need to go into that full state to translate the information for someone else. You will just get it instantly telepathically as a download. But for someone else, you may need to go into a slightly different state by having them ask a question which triggers the download not to you but through you to them.

**Participant:** Okay. Thank you.

**Bashar:** You’re welcome.

***

**Question 21: Shadows, Channeling, Gravity, and Ancient Civilizations**

**Participant:** Who’s up next? All right. How can we be of service to you? Shivi. Shivi. My name’s Kai. Yes. Is a shadow a shadow? Is a shadow a shadow? Is a shadow a shadow? Yeah. A shadow is a shadow and not a shadow. It is a thing and not a thing. Whoa. It doesn’t make sense to me. It doesn’t make sense. It doesn’t make sense.

**Bashar:** A shadow is the absence of light. Just like fear in and of itself is not a thing. It is the absence of love. Really? Yes. Whoa. Does that help you? Yeah. Is that something that you will enjoy thinking about? Yeah. Is that all you needed to ask? Yeah. Thank you. I love you. Bye.

**Participant:** Hi. Bashar. And to you, good day. I’ll ask some questions about three topics mainly. Number one, one is channeling. Yes. Number two is gravity. Yes. Number three is Egypt. Egypt. All right. Or Lemuria or Mu. Well, Egypt was not Lemuria or Mu. Both of them, let’s say, then. But go ahead with number one. Okay. Number one, or whatever order you wish. October 15, 2016 at 8:00 in Prague Czech Republic above downtown I saw four objects with a friend of mine and it was my first experience with you and then seeing those lights changed my life. All right. No, you changed your life, but you used the lights as a reflection and a permission slip to do so. Sorry. So I thought it was you and I...

**Bashar:** Thank you. Um, well, thank you. Uh-huh. And number two, I believe it was you.

**Participant:** No, wasn’t me.

**Bashar:** Okay. Number two, gravity.

**Participant:** No, I’m still in channeling.

**Bashar:** Number two, gravity. No, number one, channeling. No, number two, gravity. Oh, please. We can do this all day long. We can do this all day long. Okay. Gravity. We’ll get back to the channeling. Okay. Gravity then. I’m scared of heights.

**Bashar:** No, you’re not. You’re scared of falling from them.

**Participant:** Okay. I’m just imagining myself sometimes to be in one of your ships. Yes. And to see the world from above and it just scares me.

**Bashar:** But you see in our ships there is what you would consider to be artificial gravity. It would not feel like you are actually at a height. It would feel like your feet are on the ground at all times. At all times. Unless you don’t want to feel it, then you can turn it off.

**Participant:** Oh, okay. So, whatever you maneuver in the air, you are standing still.

**Bashar:** Yes. Like we do on ground. It does not feel from within our ships that we are moving at all. It feels more like things are moving around us.

**Participant:** Great. So it’s your point of view of the universe.

**Bashar:** Of course. Yes. Exactly. So you’re changing your universe around you, not the ship.

**Participant:** Yes. Can you give some more information about your technology of...

**Bashar:** Well, it’s exactly how anything moves actually because you see what we understand that your science doesn’t yet understand as we have explained a few times is that location is not a place that an object exists in. Location is one of the properties of the object. So if you change the locational variable of an object, that object has to start existing in a new location instantly. Location according to where? Where’s your reference point? You can create whatever reference point you wish to begin with. For us, our reference point was simply our own world. And thus we simply created a map of locational variables that stretched out into the cosmos from our own world. Okay? You can do the same from your own world. So you fix your planets in position and you follow all the other moving moving objects around it to create the position. No, what we do is we measure the vibration of different locations and then we learn to imbue that vibration into objects we wish to move to those locations like our ships. So in other words, if my ship is over my planet, it has a certain locational vibration. If I wish to move it to the vibration of your dimension and your planet, the ship has to be imbued, encased in a vibrational energy bubble that contains the vibrational locational variable of your dimension and your planet. As soon as we do that and the vibration of energy overwhelms the amount of energy in the ship, then the ship has to simply stop existing over our planet and start existing over yours. Not really having traveled the intervening distance, simply disappearing and appearing where it has now been in a sense instructed to appear by changing its locational variable.

**Participant:** I understand. But your target position is always changing.

**Bashar:** We can understand the target position in a relativistic way so that everything changes with it relatively speaking. Can you give some information about the technology that you use to create this artificial gravity in your aircrafts? Is that possible?

**Bashar:** Now it is possible although to some degree to do it in the way we do it. You don’t quite have the technology yet but you can create versions of this. Yes. But again, it’s doing what we said. In other words, the interior of the craft contains a vibration of a location as if we’re not moving. It’s constantly repeated, constantly reinforced that it is a particular location relative to the ship as if we are not moving anywhere within the ship. Does that make sense?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** We’re imposing resonance energy fields that contain a very complex resonant pattern of vibrations that represent the idea that we’re not moving relative to the ship, but the whole ship is moving at everything with it because it becomes one resonance point. Does that make sense in your language? All right.

**Participant:** And so Egypt or Lemuria or I remember you said that there were some other shelves and rooms or you mean within the great pyramids under the they would be discovered and that yes nobody would like cover it up you know.

**Bashar:** Well, some of them have been discovered and covered up still. Still, when is it going to be announced and what change it will make? We can’t completely predict that. But generally again, you will find that sometime within the next 25 to 50 years, all of those things will be revealed. But it requires a great change in the consciousness of your planet and the way that you do things. But some people do know exactly where those chambers are and have seen those chambers for themselves but have not really shared this information with the world. The ones that have been put in authority have prevented others from seeing these things.

**Participant:** Okay. There’s another location in Egypt called Serapeum. Do you know that place?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant:** There are like 26 28 large granite boxes inside these chambers. What are they used for? What were they used for?

**Bashar:** They’re resonators that have different frequencies and different vibrations that can accomplish different kinds of tasks both energetically, spiritually, and physically.

**Participant:** Why were they kept underground?

**Bashar:** Because many people were not ready to understand how to utilize them. And in the wrong hands, they can be somewhat dangerous if not used correctly. In much the same way that if you don’t know what you’re doing with electricity, you can electrocute yourself.

**Participant:** So they were used as chambers. Yes. Not boxes to...

**Bashar:** They’re resonance chambers. Something that can have different effects on physical material reality and on energy and on spirit.

**Participant:** No, when I think about chambers, I always imagine them like as rooms.

**Bashar:** They don’t have to be. Okay. You can have miniature chambers that are mobile. As long as they exhibit the right ratio, the right proportions and so on and so forth, then it will be kind of like a miniature version of the larger rooms that you can kind of carry around with you in terms of that resonance.

**Participant:** Okay. I have a last question about Mu. Lemuria. Well, it’s actually Mu. Mu. Yes. Lemuria is a more modern reference. It was located in the Pacific Ocean area, South Pacific. There was more land mass extending from the areas you now call southern Asia. Okay. And was there a city on Mu called Turk?

**Bashar:** It’s not exactly what you would recognize as a city because they didn’t really build cities in the way that you understand that. But there were several stone structures that were used for a variety of reasons. Again having to do with resonance and connection to nature and a variety of different ways of being used, but they’re not really exactly cities as you would recognize them.

**Participant:** Okay. So, is there any special place related to this word on that island?

**Bashar:** Some of the stone statues on Easter Island are somewhat of a remnant of that technology.

**Participant:** Technology?

**Bashar:** Yes, it’s a technology. Turk is a technology. The stonework that I’m talking about is a technology.

**Participant:** No, no. I’m talking about a word which is T U R K. Turk. A word.

**Bashar:** Yes. Well, words are also a type of vibrational technology. Okay. Remember that’s where the idea of spells came from. Spelling spells. The right words have certain frequencies, certain vibrations that can as permission slips allow certain things to happen if you understand the formulas. It’s actually quite an advanced technology. It’s a form of mathematical resonance.

**Participant:** Okay, thanks. Now, anything about the channeling remaining? Channel. Yeah. My question was about when you channel or Daryl channels Bashar his ship then doesn’t have to be around the area.

**Bashar:** No, not at all. Because there’s no such thing as distance. When you understand that everything exists all at once and you know how to resonate at a frequency that allows you to experience the effect that everything is here and now, then distance doesn’t matter. It’s an illusion.

**Participant:** Okay. Does that help? So you can channel him anywhere on earth without having ship above you.

**Bashar:** Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Does that help you?

**Participant:** Yeah, that’s Thank you. Thanks. Thank you.

***

**Question 22: Relationship Needs and Choice**

**Participant:** Hello, Tadea. Nania. So we have one question that from a Ustream listener that came up in response to the monologue that you did today. Yes. And the person wanted to know, can you expand on the need number six? And the idea is, can I just focus on an internal relationship with self or do I need to connect with another being?

**Bashar:** No. As we said, any kind of relationship will do as long as is recognized as a relationship. Because when you do focus on a so-called internal relationship with self, you actually are also connecting with all that is with the creation source within you. Therefore, it’s always both an internal and an external so to speak relationship in that sense. And that could also be with a pet. It can be with anything. Anything. It can be with a subatomic particle. As long as a relationship is formed, as long as there is a reflection, as long as there is an understanding of self and other coming together in some form of mutually reinforcing reflective relationship that enhances and illuminates and enlightens.

**Participant:** Yes. So earlier today when you were talking about choosing positive or negative or neutral, right? Yes. Isn’t the idea that that’s one of the what’s built into the matrix of existence is you have to make choice.

**Bashar:** Well, you’re always making a choice. Yes. You cannot not make a choice. Even not making a choice is a choice.

**Participant:** Exactly. That’s what’s so interesting. It’s like that’s woven into the fabric of...

**Bashar:** Yes. That’s why we said it’s not something you have to learn to do. It’s something you simply have to realize you’re already doing and use it in the way that you prefer to. So in a sense when you were talking about the need of communication or some sort of observer. Yes. Okay. That that is also built into the fabric, right? That it’s not really a need. I know a person was asking, well, doesn’t need mean lack.

**Bashar:** It’s not a need in the negative sense of being needy. No, it’s a need in the fundamental sense that it’s part of the structure of existence and without it you wouldn’t exist. We are describing the fabric of existence in those seven neutral needs. Yes. And so just being physical part of that experience is having to require things like air and yes and all of that. So it’s again it’s another way of expressing a need but it has nothing to do with negativity.

**Participant:** No that’s why we call them the neutral needs.

**Bashar:** So that’s great. Yes. So, I was just going to mention to people that for the meditation, not the meditation, the documentary tonight that we’ll be showing at six o’clock, many of these principles that Bashar has been talking about, we will we’re able to create animation and examples to really help you absorb the information because sometimes it’s such a big shift in paradigm to understand these things, but it’s so completely logical.

**Participant:** Yes. Once you get a handle on it, huh?

**Bashar:** Yes. It becomes obvious. It’s the science of the obvious.