---
heading: Part 3
title: "The Triad Mind"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2017-06-18
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 392
tags: ['excitement']
---



### Conversation 4: Excitement, Adoption, Worthiness

**Woman:** I feel my excitement is just wondering and feel like what is the most exciting place I want to be in the world.

**Bashar:** But that's not completely true. Following your excitement means in the simplest possible ways. The fact that you are here tonight, we assume is the result of following your excitement. So it's not really true that you're just sitting and thinking about it. 

You are acting on it. It's just that you're acting on it in everyday ways, which is fine. It's not about having a lifespan career, an overarching project. It's about at every moment looking for the options available to you of anything that you could do that contains even just a little bit more excitement than any other option and acting on that one first. That's all we mean. That starts the ball rolling and it may expand from there. But you are acting on your excitement because if you were just sitting and thinking about what excites you, you wouldn't have come tonight.

**Bashar:** So, you are acting on it. But I understand that you also can be in a place where you are exploring and examining and contemplating what other ways you might wish to express your excitement. And that's fine. Excitement does move all over the place. That's the point. You follow the thread of excitement. It's not about the form in which the excitement comes. It's about following the thread itself of the excitement. No matter what form it comes in.

**Woman:** I feel like my most exciting city is Montreal. So I stay in Montreal and learning from mango, which now I feel is most excited.


**Bashar:** then there you go. You've answered your own question.

**Woman:** After I follow my passion for a while, something will not in a line will show up.

**Bashar:** Yes. But that's part of your excitement to have it show up. Yeah.

**Woman:** And in my example, it's like after I follow my excitement for a while, then a family secret has been revealed to me. my mother recently told me that actually I am not her born girl, her daughter, but her adopted.

I don't have clear memories about that childhood experience. I just want to take this as an example to ask you how do I incorporate this kind of new discoveries or this to my expansion?

**Bashar:** I don't... Well, does it not mean anything to you that out of love they actually deliberately chose you to be their child? Sorry. Does it not mean anything to you that from love they deliberately chose you to be their child to be part of the family?

**Woman:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Then that's a positive way to incorporate the idea of discovering that you're adopted. We understand from a higher level that everyone chooses their family. And sometimes a spirit will actually do it that way. 

The person that they're born to isn't necessarily the person that actually needs to be their parent in life. They may have simply said, "For the things I need to do and when I need to be born, the timing works out best if I'm born to you, but you adopt me because this is where I actually need to be. 

The only way to get there is to be born to this person first who I know will put me up for adoption and then this person will find me because I can't be born to this person in the right timing. 

So, I'll go through this person to meet this person and have this person be my parent according to the correct timing for the theme I'm exploring." So, you're the one that decided to do this. You took the most convenient train to get where you needed to go. You knew that would happen from a higher spiritual level. 

You're the one that planned it out. So that must mean you knew what you were doing and you knew you needed to wind up where you are and that was just the easiest way to do it. That was the path of least resistance.

**Woman:** Yes. Yes. And this exposure like how to say somehow explains why somewhere in my life I feel some extent of unworthiness. I feel like...

**Bashar:** But you knew you needed to explore that in order to transform it so that you could know that you are worthy. That's part of the theme of exploration and transforming things is to come in and be given belief systems that you have to transform into something more positive. That's part of the process. That's part of the journey of transformation on your planet. Going from negative to positive, darkness to light, limitation to more freedom.

**Bashar:** So, have you arrived at the place where you understand that you are worthy or are you still investigating the idea that you might actually be unworthy?

**Woman:** I feel unworthy like 50% worthy, 50% unworthy.

**Bashar:** All right. Unworthy of what? Because unworthy of happiness. Unworthy of to be here. Unworthy to be where you are.

How is it possible to be anywhere else other than where you are? 

You are where you are. 

Therefore, you must have decided that there is a purpose to being where you are. There must be something you're going to get out of this that will benefit you in life if you use it that way. Is that not a worthy cause? Why are you judging yourself for making choices that you knew would be the choices you needed to make in order to go through the process you needed to go through in order to discover yourself from a new point of view? Why judge yourself for having made these choices when you knew that they would work for you? Do you understand what we're saying? You're judging yourself for the choices you made to wind up where you are. But where you are is where you need to be. So if you use your situation in a positive and constructive way, you'll get a positive effect out of it. But if you sit there and judge yourself as unworthy for your experiences in life, you're not going to use the things you set up in the way that would benefit you. You're only going to wallow in the same place in a negative way and never understand that you're the one that set all this up for a positive purpose. You just have to use it that way. You have to know you did that for a positive reason and not judge yourself as if you did something truly negative that will not serve you, that will not benefit you. You haven't done that. You need to trust what you set up. And use it in that way knowing it will lead you in a positive direction.

Please all of you understand as we have said many times, if you were truly unworthy, you wouldn't exist. 

Because creation does not make unworthy things. Do you follow me? Yes. If you exist, creation itself says you are worthy of your existence because it doesn't make mistakes. And if you exist, then creation must need you to exist in order for creation to be complete. You have to be worthy of your existence or you would never have existed. So when you say I'm not worthy, you are literally arguing with creation. You will never win that argument because you cannot stop existing. You cannot cease to exist. Therefore, your very existence is proof of your worthiness. 

**Bashar:** So start believing what creation is telling you by the fact of your existence. You cannot change that fact. You are worthy by just the fact of your existence and that's enough. You don't need any other reason to be worthy. You are worthy because you exist. That's enough. Does that help?

**Woman:** Yes. Thank you. Thank you.

**Bashar:** I'm going to start calling all of you pretzels for the way you twist yourselves into these amazing belief systems about yourselves. It's really quite acrobatic.

---

### Conversation 5: Dialogue with a Woman (14 Lives, Parallel Incarnations)


**Woman:** I've been told that I am currently living 14 lives simultaneously.

**Bashar:** Well, not you, but you may have 14 connections that you're making to other parallel simultaneous incarnations that are helping to inform your life by gaining information and experience from them as they may also be doing with you.

**Bashar:** It's actually way more than 14, by the way. 14 may be in one particular arena that serves a particular theme you're exploring, but you have many more connections than that. It's just that not all of them are always relevant all the time.

**Woman:** Okay. And I was also told that one of my other lives I'm living in Spain.

**Bashar:** it is another person living in Spain at a certain time that you are making an energetic connection to to draw information and experience from. 

**Woman:** How can those 14 lives in a particular timeline is living simultaneously on Earth like I am right now?

**Bashar:** Yes, but not in the same time frame that you consider to be your present. Some of them overlap but not all of them. 

Some of them are what you would call contemporary, existing on your planet at the same time that you do in your understanding of time. But the majority of them aren't in what you would consider to be your contemporary time frame. You would think of them in the past or the future. Even though they all exist at the same time, in your language.

**Woman:** And so what I was told that one of these lives... well, I shouldn't say I...

**Bashar:** All right. Well, now that you understand the idea, you don't have to walk on eggshells in your language.

**Woman:** Okay. And that this life in Spain is to occur in 212.

**Bashar:** As I said, some of them are in the future. Right.

**Woman:** And so what I need clarification on is if these lives are happening simultaneously. Yes. How could that life occur in 212 from the human perspective?

**Bashar:** When you are watching your television and you're watching a particular program, let's say you're watching a program that is a story of something that is contemporary. Yes. What you might call, oh, a hospital story or a detective story or something like that that goes on in your time frame. 

At the same time, you know, you could change the channel and watch a period piece that represents life 300 years ago. And at the same time, you could change the channel and watch what you call a sci-fi movie that takes place 100 years in the future or so. All those programs are playing at the same time, but you only see the one you're tuned to at any given moment. That doesn't mean the others don't exist. And it doesn't mean that when you tune to the sci-fi movie that depicts the future that the story you were watching doesn't still run. Of course it does. But they all run at the same time even though they depict very different realities. This is the way reality is structured, except that you're not talking about television programs. You're talking about actual vibrational experiences that are all going on at the same time, but are only separated by a difference in frequency that you call future and past. In the same way, the different television programs are only separated by a difference in frequency that you call channel this or channel that. It's the same kind of idea, but they're all playing at once.

**Woman:** So do you think these 14 lives influence one another and how?

**Bashar:** In each life you have chosen a theme. That theme may require you to make energetic links or connections to other lives going on at the same time that you believe represent information and experience that will help you explore the theme in this life. 

While they may also be making connections to you or other lives that they feel they need information and experience from that downloads to them to help them with their experience of life. Now, you're not always aware of the information coming in or not always aware of where it may be coming from. You may just think one day you are suddenly inspired to have a certain idea, but that idea may actually be coming from another life that you're connecting to. And it might be part of the information you are getting from that life, from their experience that suddenly you realize, oh, that idea could really help me do X, Y, and Z in this life. You may never know it actually came from another life going on. You may just think it's your own idea. And that's fine because that's the way you collect information. You're creating a kind of an energetic multi-dimensional internet.

**Woman:** I'm working on a trilogy. What advice do you have for me?

**Bashar:** Keep writing.

**Woman:** Could you, you know, give me any hints in terms of the theme? What is the trilogy about?

**Woman:** Oh, well, it's autobiography.

**Bashar:** Why is it a trilogy? Have you lived three lives all at once? Is it three parts of your life? How is it divided into three?

**Woman:** Three parts of my life. Earliest memories is the first book all the way through all my education, all of college. Yes. And then the second book will deal with me going into my profession, then also graduate school and then also my career. But the trilogy is going to be co-authored with me and a friend who has crossed over.

**Bashar:** All right. And so what do you need to know other than continue to write and the information you need will come to you.

**Woman:** Right. That's where the... Yes, that's what I said. Right. I got to think and write.

**Bashar:** Okay. And one last question. Yes. I've heard you do energy scans. Can you do an energy scan on me?

**Bashar:** I do energy scans all the time to even be able to interact with you. So, yes, I've done an energy scan on you. What do you want to know?

**Woman:** I don't know. Someone just told me that you do energy scans. I was just trying to see what you got out of it.

**Bashar:** One moment, please. I'll see if the doctor is in. Would you like an appointment for an energy scan?

**Woman:** Yes, please.

**Bashar:** Here is your prescription. It says, "Keep writing. When you are in the flow of writing, your energy is at its peak. Stay there in all things that you do in life so that you will write the story of your life that is aligned with who you truly are. The inspirations are already contained in that state of being. You will download what you need when you need it. Be in the state of being of being a writer. That will keep you in the energy state that is appropriate for you at this moment in your life."


### Conversation 6: Dialogue with a Woman (Attracting Unavailable People, Fear of Rejection)

**Woman:** I've always attracted unavailable/married people even though I'm putting out the most available. why I'm getting this back when I'm putting the most available energy out.

**Bashar:** Obviously, you're not. What you put out is what you get back. Why are you unavailable? 

You may think you're making yourself available, but clearly you're not for some reason. 

What is your definition of being in a relationship that you actually are afraid to experience if you attract one? 

You may have a definition of a relationship that doesn't serve you. You may think that certain things will happen that you actually don't prefer to have happen because you think they have to happen in a relationship. So maybe if you clarify your definition of a relationship, you will find out why you are actually saying, "I'm available" but giving off the vibe that you're not.

**Woman:** What might you be afraid might happen if you did actually find yourself in a relationship?

**Woman:** Rejection.

**Bashar:** Rejection. Therefore, you are attracting people who could never possibly in a sense reject you in the way you don't prefer to be rejected because there's never really a chance for that.

**Bashar:** But why are you afraid it would happen?

**Woman:** Experience.

**Bashar:** So you haven't learned anything from your experience?

**Woman:** Yes, I have.

**Bashar:** Then you're not the same person, are you?

**Woman:** No, I'm not.

**Bashar:** Then how can the same person be rejected if you're not that person anymore?

**Woman:** Very good point. Thank you very much. I sometimes make them.

**Bashar:** Again, this comes with the understanding of how things work. When you allow yourself to truly take a lesson to heart, you've changed yourself and you are literally not the same person. 

So you can't use really as a reason or an excuse the idea of what happened before if you've learned your lesson and change yourself to assume that it has to happen again because even if in a sense it appeared to happen again if you're not the same person you're not going to react the same way to it which means it doesn't matter whether it happens or not. 

This is making your state of being unconditional and not based on what someone else decides to do. You have to understand that. And I know this sounds like a paradox because it is.

In order to attract someone that you care about and someone who cares for you, you have to attract someone as if they were a complete stranger and wouldn't know you at all. And therefore, you wouldn't care what they thought about you because it wouldn't be relevant what they thought about you because they're a complete stranger. If some stranger came up on the street and says, "I reject you." You would go, "Well, you're just crazy because you don't even know me." You understand? Yes. You wouldn't give it a second thought because it wouldn't be relevant. It would make no sense. So when you can get to the same state as you would be in in listening to what a stranger might say as a rejection and you know it's irrelevant because it has nothing to do with you. It has to do with them. Then you can open yourself up to the idea of attracting what you need because you know it doesn't really matter in a sense what they choose to do that might be representative of their issue because you are clear and solid about the idea of who you prefer to be regardless of what someone else might do. And therefore the paradox is when you don't care what someone else might think of you, you open the door to the people coming in who will actually think highly of you.

I'm not very passionate about anything.

**Bashar:** Well, that's because you've been spending time rejecting yourself. How can you be passionate about a person who rejects themselves? When you stop rejecting yourself, you will see how passionate you can be about yourself and about the life that unfolds from you. One thing is connected to the other.

**Woman:** Hmm. My final question would have to be, people have always told me that I'm otherworldly in my thinking and I've always felt like an outsider looking in.

**Bashar:** Oh gee, me too. That's all right. First of all, obviously there are many outsiders looking in. The entire gathering is outsiders looking in and allowing the in to become the outside and the outside to become the inside. The idea is you're not alone in this. Most of you when you start waking up to the fact that you have other connections, start feeling those other connections very strongly as if you're from somewhere else. You're from Earth, but you're connected to many things and you have a higher being that is ultradimensional and multi-universal. So, when you start paying attention to that, start picking up on that because of what is typically the status quo on your planet by comparison, you're going to feel a little bit like an outsider. That's okay because ultimately those that are outside will become the inside. 


**Bashar:** Just be yourself. You really, really just will discover that you are worthy. You are beautiful. There is nothing about yourself to reject. There is nothing to be afraid of. Just open up your heart and be yourself. And don't base your state of being on what other people think. In most cases, when anyone does something that is a rejection or a type of an attack, it has really more to do with their issues than it does with yours. But because they're in denial, they're not willing to look at their own issues. They're going to come and seek out someone that they can project that on to. You understand? Yes. But you have to understand it's their issue. I'm not saying you don't have your own issues of rejection, but this is what you're doing. And you're doing it in that way by attracting people you can't actually have because you're afraid of being rejected. But other people who do the rejection are doing it because they're also rejecting themselves. So in a sense by being afraid of being rejected, you are actually yourself rejecting the companions you could be attracting. So you're the one actually doing the rejection. See the difference greatly. All right. Take it to heart. Don't judge yourself for it. This is a lesson. It's a process. It's life. You're doing fine. Relax.


### Conversation 7: Dialogue with a Man (Ashtar Command, Synchronicity)

**Man:** Good evening. And a you good day. I have three questions. Yes. First, what has ever become of the organization known as the Ashtar Command?

**Bashar:** Well, what has become of them? They are what they have generally always been. Like anything, they evolve. But the Ashtar Command is not what many people on your planet think. The idea of their physicalness is an interpretation of the physical mind of humanity because they are ultradimensional consciousnesses that simply cannot be experienced directly by humanity in any other way than in some way cloaking them in a human form and having them be represented in a certain way. Otherwise, they would simply be too alien to you.

**Man:** All right. My second question is can you give us a detailed explanation of the definition meaning or function of synchronicity?

**Bashar:** Yes. Synchronicity is physical reality space-time way of showing you that everything is one thing, that everything is connected but it has to play out in time because that's the realm you're coming from. That's the perspective you have. So synchronicity shows you this is that, that is this. And when you experience a synchronicity and see the significance of the synchronicity as it resonates for you in perfect timing, it shows you that everything is happening all at once. Everything is connected to everything else. Everything is an expression of everything else. But it has to play out in a space-time framework. Does that make sense?

**Man:** Yes, it does. All right. And my third question is what is the correlation between synchronicity and the things that we are attracted to?

**Bashar:** Well, synchronicity in a sense is the delivery mechanism for what is relevant for you. As we have said, synchronicity is one of the tools in the kit of excitement. It's the organizing principle. So when you're following your passion to the best you're able with no insistence on a particular outcome, it opens up the toolkit of excitement that contains all the necessary tools that start working for you and the tools become the driving engine that is your passion moving you forward. It's the synchronicity which is the organizing principle that brings to you the circumstances and information and situations in exactly the correct order at exactly the correct time in the way you need to act on them. It also brings you things along the path of least resistance. It brings you things that is the path that connects you to all other expressions of your excitement in life. It brings you everything that will support you in whatever form of abundance you need to be supported to allow you to continue to act on your excitement. It brings you the reflective mirror that reveals to you anything within your unconscious mind that might be out of alignment with your excitement so you can identify it, let it go, bring that energy back into your alignment. And it gives you everything that is relevant in your life. Everything. That's the complete kit. All you have to do is stay in the positive state that no matter what happens, you identify it as something that can serve you in a positive way. So you'll get the positive effect from it. That's the entire instruction manual in a nutshell.


