---
heading: Part 4
title: "The Triad Mind"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2015-06-20
icon: Bashar
weight: 366
showdate: true
tags: ['Grays']
---


### Conversation 8: Dialogue with a Man (The Greys, Time, Longevity)

**Man:** Hello Bashar and you good day. It's a great joy to be here.

**Bashar:** It is for us as well to interact with each and every one of you. Thank you.

**Man:** In the documentary, you speak of the time where the greys went underground. Yes. They weren't the greys then, but Yes. What my question around that is what was the motivation behind them seeking out that the DNA to continue life?

**Bashar:** They were not capable of reproducing. They would die out and then once the DNA was extracted and then you continued as it created us, the hybrids, all the different hybrid species that continued their culture and then you have your own spiritual evolution that brought you back to those feelings and spiritual experience because we were capable then of expressing them. Okay. Which ultimately the greys were not because they had divested themselves of so much of their humanity.

**Man:** Okay. My next question is you say that time is a side effect of consciousness. Yes. Experiencing billions of parallel realities every second. Flickering through those frames of parallel realities in much the same way that a projector light flickers through frames on a film strip. I'm very interested in time and I'm also very interested in longevity. Yes.

**Bashar:** Well, the longer comes from living in the moment, creating less time.

**Man:** So, would you say aging is a byproduct of not living in the moment?

**Bashar:** In some senses, in the way that most people on your planet age, yes, it doesn't mean you can't mature, but the idea of aging in a debilitating way is usually the product of not living so much in the moment. You know by example that when you see people that are vibrant and alive and acting on their passion and really living in the moment and being in love with life, don't they usually seem much younger?

**Man:** Definitely.

**Bashar:** All right. So, that should be your first clue. Okay. Living in the moment means you're actually creating less experience of time, which means you literally are aging less. You become ageless by living in the moment. So you live longer by not creating as much experience of time. That's why we suggest that when you're following your passion, you all know the sensation as we have described it. When you are really engaged and involved in doing something you're passionate about and something you love to do and the world seems to fall away and you're not paying attention to the idea of time. You know that the experience might seem like you've been doing something for 15 minutes, but when you look up and reconnect it might seem that a couple of hours have passed. You follow me? Yes. But what we're telling you is that when you actually are deep in that experience and it only feels like 15 minutes, you actually have only aged 15 minutes. You're just reconnecting with the consensus reality 2 hours later because you want to align with them for a variety of other reasons. But whatever time you actually felt you experienced is the amount of time you actually experienced. And now your reality is becoming even more malleable, more slippery. You're going to find yourselves experiencing more breaks in continuity. Excellent. The more you live in the moment.

Now, in terms of, as we have said, the tick of the clock of physical reality in that you're shifting billions of times per second. It is what you call Planck time. You understand this term?

**Man:** No.

**Bashar:** Planck time is your quantum physical understanding of the smallest unit of time which is defined by the time it takes for light at the speed of light to cross what is called the Planck distance which is the smallest unit of distance. Does that help?

**Man:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So that's the tick of the clock of your physical reality. That's one tick is Planck time. But this tick is exceedingly small. It is 10 to the minus 43rd power. Do you understand that idea or that notation of how small that is? All right. It is so small a period of time, the tick of the clock of physical reality is so tiny. And that's why you don't really feel it because there are so many beats, billions of beats per second that it all just seems like smooth and continuous to you. You don't see the ticks of the clock. But it's so small a tick. If you were to take a single subatomic particle and compare it to your entire universe, the subatomic particle wouldn't be small enough to represent Planck time as the tick of the clock. That's how small it is.

**Man:** That's pretty small.

**Bashar:** Yes, it is. So, tick tick tick. When you accelerate your energy by staying in the moment, by following your passion, I'm not saying you necessarily achieve that frequency of the tick of the clock, but the idea is that the experience of time slows down for you because you are vibrating at a higher frequency that is at least somewhat closer to the frequency of the tick of the clock. And that's why reality seems to slow down because you're closer to matching its frequency so you don't experience as much difference. You follow?

**Man:** Yes, I do. Is this helping you understand more things about time?

**Man:** Very much. Very much so. Anything else? Yes. I wanted to ask you, I often dream of being in a spaceship and the graphics in the documentary were like the ones in my dream. Yes. And have I been?

**Bashar:** Yes, you have. Thank you. Many times, not always. Many times, dreams are actually memories of experiences on other levels of reality. Many times when you are shifted and taken aboard ships, it doesn't actually always happen specifically in what you would consider to be your exact precise physical reality domain. There is usually a slight shift into another parallel type of reality that you still experience as physical. And for its own sake, it really is just as solid as you think your physical reality is. But it takes place in a slightly altered, slightly removed, slightly different frequency than what you consider your physical reality to be usually. Does that help?

**Man:** Yes, it does. And that's why when you come back, in a sense, a lot of times you interpret it as a dream because your physical mind is attempting to make sense using symbols it can understand of something that happened in a reality that wasn't physical exactly in the same way yours is. So, it does best it can to use the symbols that represent the experience and tells you that was a dream that can't possibly have been real, right? That was a dream. That's what your physical mind is saying.

**Man:** I have a couple more questions. Do I have a future life as an Essassani and do I have any hybrid children?

**Bashar:** You are connected to hybrids. It's possible that you will choose the idea of an Essassani life at some point. You do have connections to the hybrid children, but I am being told we're not allowed to discuss that at this particular moment.

**Man:** That's good. Thank you. Okay. By the hybrid children. And the last thing I want to ask is what kind of exercises can I do to assist in mass consciousness to assist others. What kind of exercises can I do besides meditation?

**Bashar:** Push-ups. Push-ups. Chin ups. Sit ups. How about rise ups?

**Man:** Okay. By doing what?

**Bashar:** Push-ups.

**Man:** By doing what?

**Bashar:** Rise ups.

**Man:** By doing what?

**Bashar:** Meditation.

**Man:** By doing what?

**Bashar:** Following your passion.

**Man:** Thank you, Bashar. It's been a great pleasure. Thank you so much.

---

### Conversation 9: Dialogue with a Man (Abduction Dreams, Resonant Healing)

**Man:** Hi Bashar. Good day.

**Bashar:** Hi.

**Man:** Since I was a kid, I had many repetitive dreams, vivid dreams of either being abducted. Yes. Or just being in a ship. Yes. A year ago, I had a really vivid dream where I was with you in your ship and your friends.

**Bashar:** And not exactly me. Okay. I was... I thought it was my image being used to calm you down. Probably because you were familiar with me. Yes. And because I'm not scared. And you showed me a book or this entity. Yes. And started to explain a message and when I woke up I had no memory of what that was. Can you tell me what are you really interested in life about? Is there a particular discipline or passion that you find extremely interesting and attractive?

**Man:** Yes. Which is... is it something to do with science or math or anything like that?

**Bashar:** Science. All right. And a particular branch...

**Man:** Metaphysics science healing. We understand it as a science but most people on your planet don't.

**Bashar:** Biological healing.

**Man:** Biological healing. All right. You were given in a sense instructions on how to allow that to happen more efficiently.

**Bashar:** Okay, that makes sense.

**Man:** You were given a book on biological vibration or resonance, the understanding of resonant medicine or resonant healing. So it's in there. You just have to open the book.

**Bashar:** How do I do that?

**Man:** Are you doing resonant healing in some way, shape, or form?

**Bashar:** Studying. Studying it, but not doing it.

**Man:** Why aren't you doing it? How else do you think you're going to learn just from a book? Yes, you're right. So, are you going to do it?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Man:** When?

**Bashar:** Now.

**Man:** All right. Then as you do it, the book you really need that's already inside you will open up and you'll have the information that you need. Yes. Yes. You do understand that healers don't heal directly. They create a resonant frequency that if the person needing the healing chooses to match then they will heal themselves. You understand that principle?

**Bashar:** Yes. Yes.

**Man:** All right. Well, that's the first step in understanding resonant healing. So that's the beginning of chapter one. The rest you can open yourself by doing it. You are the book. Now you can put down the books. I'm not saying you can't read them from time to time, but you can put down the books and be the book. Open yourself and do it. Apply it. That's how you learn by experience, by doing.

**Bashar:** Yes. Thank you. Yes. Does that help?

**Man:** It does. What's the best way to communicate with ourselves, the cells in our body?

**Bashar:** By being on a high resonant level yourself. So that communication becomes very apparent to you when it occurs. Yes. Okay. You're creating a resonant field, a resonant bubble, a resonant reality. And therefore within the definition of that resonant reality is all the communication that is needed and required by the cells of your body and all the information that you need from them. So, by being in that resonant vibratory level or field, all the information you need will come to you. You'll sense it. You'll know it. It'll just be there. You'll pick up on it. You follow? Yes. Again, it's part of being the book. Just do what it is that excites you and the chapters will open. The information will unfold.

**Man:** Okay. All right. Remember, what do you say? What's the ancient saying? Physician, heal thyself. Yes. So, by doing it, you're healing yourself and upping your resonant field, which then is something that others can pick up from you and choose to match to heal themselves. Starts with you being who you are. Because if you're not being who you are through the actions in your life, how are they going to know how to find you? How are they going to know who you are? Yes. Yes. So, there is no reason for you to hesitate. Whatever it is you're capable of doing now will be an appropriate level for someone who needs that level. Of course, you'll grow. Of course, you'll learn. Of course, you'll improve. But that doesn't mean you should hold back what you're capable of doing now. You may surprise yourself at what you're actually capable of doing now since the book is within you. Yes. Yes. What is your name?

**Bashar:** Ivan.

**Man:** So, it's the book of Ivan. Yes. Yes. Be the book of Ivan.


### Conversation 10: Dialogue with a Woman (Love, Land, Fear of Snakes)

**Woman:** I love everybody here. You mean even the one that was rejecting herself? Yes. You love her, too.

**Bashar:** You're not rejecting her. 

I accept her no matter what.

Maybe she will also be willing to love herself.

**Woman:** That would be great. Yes. Recently I bought a piece of land. So I travel from city to mountain. Yes. I feel I have two lives going on together.

**Bashar:** Well, all right. In what way do you mean that?

**Woman:** Because in city is all modern and I go to work and seeing people and in mountain there's monkeys and elements, trees. Yes. So when I was in mountain then I can see the sunrise for one hour. Yes. And looking at the clouds for an hour and doing nothing but feel.

**Bashar:** Well, you're not doing nothing. You're doing something. Yes. It's just different than what you're doing in the city. That's all. Yeah. I want to know about the natural and I want to because it's my land. I want to give my love.

**Bashar:** All right. But you can also bring some of that energy into the way you do whatever it is you choose to do within the city too.

**Woman:** Yes. Yes, I do that too. All right. I love in the mountain and I love...

**Bashar:** Well, you do remember that in tomorrow's transmission, we're going to be talking about nature's social network and how to connect into that communication.

**Woman:** Yes. Yeah. That's synchronicity.

**Bashar:** Yes, it is. Yes. And my question would be I am afraid of snake. I was born in the year of snake.

**Bashar:** So you're afraid of yourself.

**Woman:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Why are you afraid of yourself?

**Woman:** I have been thinking about this question and every time I thought about that I said maybe I can think snake as Bashar so I'll be less afraid.

**Bashar:** All right. Bashar the snake. Yes. Every time if I have something I feel afraid and I'll think of Bashar. So I will know that that's Bashar and we are friends.

**Bashar:** So first and foremost of course remember the ancient symbol of the serpent is actually representative of ancient wisdom, mystery school, secret knowledge, so on and so forth. Nothing to be afraid of there. But there are some profound understandings that can be had in ancient wisdom. And besides, I don't actually completely believe that you're afraid of snakes. You know why? You're willing to scale a mountain.

**Woman:** All right. All right. But I'm...

**Bashar:** You're the ones that taught us puns.

**Woman:** But I'm still afraid of snakes. So I need to face my fear.

**Bashar:** Well, what are you afraid will happen with snakes? Are you afraid that one of them will bite you and kill you?

**Woman:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Well, so what if they did? So what if you died?

**Woman:** I won't die because I'm an eternal being.

**Bashar:** I understand you will not die as a being. But of course you can die physically. Is that what you're afraid of?

**Woman:** No.

**Bashar:** Well, what are you afraid of when you're afraid of snakes? What are you afraid will happen? Can you be specific?

**Woman:** Yeah. I don't know why I'm afraid.

**Bashar:** Sure you do. You can't lie to us. You with the forked tongue. Yes. Can you tell me what are you afraid of? What do they represent to you? What do snakes represent? Look beyond the fear for a moment and just what do they represent to you? What kind of meaning have you given to the animal you call a snake? What is it you're afraid of specifically about that animal?

**Woman:** The shape.

**Bashar:** Why the shape? What is it about the shape that disturbs you? Is it because they don't have legs? What is it? Is it because they slither along?

**Woman:** Yeah, they slither along.

**Bashar:** What is it about that motion that disturbs you? Why does that movement disturb you?

**Woman:** They will just come and I don't know where they are going.

**Bashar:** Oh, you can't see them coming. Yeah. All right. 

Here's why you're afraid. It's not that they are not around at all, but they were more prevalent in ancient times. There are certain forms of extraterrestrial beings that represented themselves by the symbol of the snake. You are connected to that. You're having experiences or had experiences with that group of extraterrestrials and at the time because you felt out of control like they could just come and be there all of a sudden and whisk you away to another reality it made you feel out of control. So because you interpreted their symbol as the symbol of the snake or the dragon or the serpent, which is the way their energy is interpreted in your reality, you now have projected and transferred the fear of that extraterrestrial consciousness onto the closest representation on your planet, which is a snake.

