---
heading: Part 1
title: The metaphysics of physics (as above so below)"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1998-01-30
icon: Bashar
weight: 1122
showdate: true
---



## Physical Reality and Consciousness

Physical reality is a projection of consciousness. It is like a dream. It isn't really out there around you. It isn't really solid in the classical meaning of that word. 

Everything that exists in physical reality begins within the consciousness as a resonance pattern, as a template, as a blueprint. That energy pattern is crystallized within the consciousness into the format called physical reality.

Physical reality contains different kinds of reflections. The basic ones are the positive and the negative. 

But then there is also the neutral which is what makes physical reality not a duality but a trinity. There is always the middle part, always the balance point. 

This is energetically what allows you to create the reality you prefer because it lets you blend and balance the positive and the negative, coming from the neutral place in order to generate whatever kind of an experience that you prefer or that you chose as a theme of exploration.

But how this idea of the neutral place and the positive and negative energies that exist or are experienced within physical reality express themselves in the physical reality is quite fascinating. 

The matter that makes up your physical reality, the subatomic particles also express the trinity within their basic fundamental structure.

An atom is made up of 3 components:

1. The positively charged proton
2. The negatively charged electron
3. The neutral neutron.

<!-- However, what you may not realize is how apt this structure is, how expressive it is in a very specific and precise way to the idea of the energy patterns that we've already described. -->


A neutron, when left to its own devices — a free neutron not connected within an atomic structure — actually breaks down into a proton and an electron. 

The neutral particle is neutral because it is made up of positive and negative charges. It expresses these things as the proton and the electron.

This means that the neutron has kind of layers to it energetically. it contains both charges.

This is why it can be attracted to or attract the proton, as well as the electron, 

The neutron is like a layer cake, being neutral because it contains both charges.

The proton cannot be attracted to another positively charged particle easily. The neutron must attract it if it is to attract it at all. 

It must have some kind of a charge with which to do so. So the skin of the neutron is actually negatively charged to attract the proton.

But its body is also positively charged to also attract the electron. 


So it does double duty and creates and gives structure to the atom.

It is able to break down into the proton and the electron and a few other things.

This is why the neutron is a little bit bigger than both of them. 

It has more mass than the proton, way more mass than the electron of course, but it contains both.

It has to be more massive than both so that when it breaks down there is enough mass to express the proton and the electron.

So the idea of the neutral state, energetically speaking in your life, in your experience as a state of being, is similar. 

The idea is that the neutral state contains the potential for both a positive and a negative experience based on the meaning that you give to the neutral situation that is there to begin with.

The neutral state, like the neutron, contains the potential for both, and it is actually exemplified in physical reality by the very fact that the neutron itself is capable of breaking down into both physically.


## Electron 

The electron represents negative energy which is disconnective, dissociative, segregative so to speak. 

The positive energy is integrative, expansive, connective.

But also what's associated with the negative energy that we have discussed many times with many of you are the idea of negative beliefs.

As we have said, belief systems, both positive and negative, must do something to perpetuate themselves because they're not real. 

Physical reality is not real. It's a projection, a dream, an illusion. 

So the belief systems are designed to perpetuate themselves in such a manner as to make it seem as if the reality that they depict, the definition of reality that they depict, is actually real so that you can have an actual solid physical experience.

But when it comes to the idea of positive beliefs, the positive beliefs are reflecting to you the true nature of your being — the true, powerful, self-empowered, creative, loving nature of your spirit, of your being, of your essence, of your existence. 

The negative belief systems in a sense have to work much harder than the positive beliefs to get you to buy into a scenario that is fundamentally not true about you, because you are basically creative, positive beings essentially. So in order to get you to have an experience that is negative, it has to tell you things that are fundamentally lies about yourself, and it has to reinforce those lies with every trick in the book that it can muster, every tool in its kit. 

Otherwise, you would see right through the smoke and mirrors and know that it is just an illusion and that what the negative beliefs are telling you about yourself has to be by definition false.

<!-- The idea of the atomic structure as you understand it in your society now is not so much the exact classical representation of a tiny little particle orbiting around the nucleus in a very clean sort of way like a planet around a sun. No, that's kind of an outdated, old-fashioned way of representing it.  -->

The electrons exist more in a probability cloud. That is, you're never really sure exactly where it is. It's whipping around so fast. 

It's somewhere in this hazy cloud that surrounds the nucleus. Somewhere in there are a bunch of electrons, but where they are, we don't know until we take a measurement and freeze where it is. 

But then you don't really understand exactly what its path has been because you're freezing it into a static state. But when it's moving, you don't really know where it is at any given moment.

So it is similar to the idea of negative beliefs in that it creates this sort of ambiguous, fuzzy cloud that you can't really get a grip on. 

And it fools you into thinking that there are certain things going on that are really only probabilities, really only potentials, and not really very solid at all until you yourself decide that you're going to take a particular idea, particular definition — which is the same thing as an observation or a measurement, scientifically speaking. 

And in taking that perspective, and taking that measurement, then you get what you designed the perspective for. You get what you designed the measurement or the experiment for. That's the result you get.

So the electron represents how negative beliefs work in a fuzzy way. 

You're not really sure what's going on. They tend to hide in your unconscious mind. You can't make it easy to find them. So you won't let them go because again this is their way of perpetuating themselves, telling you lies and telling you more lies and using tools like fear to prevent you from finding them so that they can continue to get you to believe that what they're telling you about you is true when it's not. 

Whereas the idea of the proton being the positively charged thing, being in a sense more easily observed because it is the very nature of the element you're looking at itself. It is the very identifying energy of the elements themselves. Then it's easy for you to see that directly. 

It doesn't have to hide. It doesn't have to confuse you. Doesn't have to fool you one way or the other. It is just telling you what you are. It is telling you what is. It is showing you your nature.

So when you're looking at an element such as gold or mercury, you are really looking at the protons which determine what the element is. So they're easy to see. 

But the electrons, those sneaky little electrons, very tiny, buzzing around in their little cloud of probabilities. "I'm over here. No, I'm not. I'm over here. No, I'm not. No, we're here. No, I'm not. Fooled you again."

Shows you a direct correlation between the idea of the way the energy states themselves exist and the way that they actually crystallize down through your consciousness into the expression you call physical materiality.

<!-- The trinary idea extends itself further because as your scientists have discovered, or as they have created for themselves to perceive, even the idea of some of the so-called subatomic particles like  -->

The proton has quarks which generally also come in threes, which again shows you the trinity aspect of the existence of that energy. 

Again, the duality and the neutral place in between.

Let the idea of the energy states and the structures that they appear to create physical reality — have a lot to do with each other.

they are really just different expressions of the same thing. They're just different expressions of the state of being that is existence itself, expressing itself on all levels as that trinity.

The only level on which such trinities don't exist, or where dualities don't exist, is what we would call the one. 

That is the homogeneous one state where there is no differentiation whatsoever. But because there is no differentiation, there is also no experience, no awareness. It takes the all that is to be aware of itself. 

It's the first reflection to itself that there is the appearance of an other that creates that idea that starts splitting into: "well there is this and there is that and there is this relationship in the middle."

So really, the neutron and the neutral state that give rise to the experience of the positive and negative sides — the proton, the electron, the neutron itself and the neutral state — is actually more precisely the reality that you call reality. 

Whereas the projections that come from it are the reflective illusions based on the information you have put into it such as a positive meaning or a negative meaning, a positive definition or a negative definition. But the neutron and the neutral state is actually what you are as an existence, as a reality, and everything is contained within it and everything can be expressed from it.


# Dialogue: Instinct, Intuition, and Further Explanations
It can come as an awareness. Again, this is not black and white. There are variations and degrees of mixture in this between instinct, positive and negative instinct, intuition coming into the mix, positive and negative reactions to things, and so on. It's a mix. It's not a black and white recipe.

So really, it's a balancing act between instinct and intuition is basically what this definition is. Belief systems, instinct, and intuition play a dance. That is a balancing act for humans on your planet.

It's pretty heady stuff. We will go into this more at another time.

**Question:** So lastly, since this was on the topic you were talking about earlier, can you talk more about the paths that electrons take? Does the fact that they take paths of probability actually correlate with your beliefs?

Yes.

**Question:** Would you like to reiterate that? Just to make it a little more clear, the probability of an electron being in any particular position is correlated to the probability of what you believe about where you will find it.

You get the reality. You program yourself to experience. In other words — oh, is this kind of like where you tell yourself you have to wake up at 7 in the morning and then you wake up at 7? The probability of finding yourself awake at 7 in the morning after having instructed yourself to do that experiment makes being awake at 7 in the morning the highest probability.

Yes. Nothing mysterious about that.

**Question:** So lastly, are we able to physically see spirits in fourth density reality?

Yes, it's one of the symptoms and one of the natural experiences of higher fourth density reality is that your senses start registering things that were invisible to you before because they're just on a different frequency. That's all. So you're expanding your senses to be able to pick up, like an antenna, on higher frequencies that you couldn't see before. Therefore, some of those frequencies will allow you to see spirits.

Yes, of course. It doesn't necessarily mean you will be able to. It just means you can.

**Question:** If you're more spiritually focused or is this a blanket thing that if you are in fourth density you can see them?

No, not necessarily. We have the ability to do that, but not everyone necessarily has a need to do so.

So all it means is as you get to a vibration to the level where you're functioning on a fourth density level, pretty much what needs to happen will happen. It's just that in higher fourth density there are more things that can fulfill what needs to happen. You are working from a larger palette of things.

Whereas in your density you might only be working with the primary colors, in the higher density you are working with the secondary colors and maybe colors even beyond what you're capable of perceiving in the third density. So it's not that everyone necessarily has to use all those colors, but they are accessible if need be. You have a larger palette, a larger paint box. That's all. It's very colorful.



## Holotope Meditation

Everyone please become very relaxed. Let go of the concerns of the day. Breathe deeply, gently, easily, and focus your attention on the center of the holotope before you.

As your lights begin to play and your music rises gently, allow yourselves to fall into the dream that we share. Allow yourselves to absorb the information through your eyes, through all of the neural network that is represented by the holotope, through the reflection that it represents of your higher mind as it connects through all of those threads of energy, those lines of light, to your physical mind and allows you to experience the idea of physical reality.

Allow yourself to continue to breathe. And as you allow your eyes to gently take in the center of the holotope as a reflection of your total being, you can also begin to see into the depths, the different expressions of the neutrality at the center as it gives rise to the positive and negative experiences and energies that naturally issue from it based on your definitions, your beliefs, your perspective, your understanding — what you believe to be true about yourself, what you believe to be true about reality in general.

Allow all of that to be found in the holotope design, in the lines of light, in the images that swirl around the center, in the fractal patterns as they play out before you, in the ever-shifting and ever-changing spectrum of colors, frequencies, and energies that you absorb through your eyes into the neurological pathways of your brain and your body. This allows for the rewiring, the reconfiguring of those neural pathways to whatever degree and whatever way gives you the best advantage to know yourself as deeply as possible; to gain transparency and clarity of yourself, so that you may see through all of the illusions you have placed upon yourself that are out of alignment with who you truly prefer to be.

Leaving only those parameters and limitations that serve you to your best ability, that guide you down a path, that escort you through the hallway, through the corridor that represents the theme you chose to explore, the theme you chose this life to be.

Allow all the information that is now embedded within this holotope to reveal to you all of the relevant knowledge, all of the wisdom, all of the insight, all of the inspiration and intuition that you require in life that is relevant for the being you have created yourself to be. For the mind you have extended into this physical reality dream, all is given to you through synchronicity very easily, very effortlessly along the path of least resistance.

Breathe deeply and gently as you allow the music in, as you allow the lights in, as you allow all the different patterns to begin to express themselves and expand within you. As you allow the unconditional love to grow from the center of your being and radiate outward, outward with every beat of your heart, at the speed of light — bubbles and bubbles and bubbles of electromagnetic light speeding outward.

The neutron of existence itself growing larger and larger, speeding away from you. And yet you are contained at the center of it, interacting and intersecting and merging with all of the other neutral bubbles that radiate from the unconditional love of every beat of your heart.

And allowing yourselves then to see that within that neutral bubble that is your reality — for you are contained within it — see that it is completely up to you to determine what your reflections will mean to you, positive or negative; how you will choose to experience the life that unfolds not around you but from within you.


Reality does not happen to you, it happens through you. 

You are the prism, the glass prism, the multifaceted, gorgeous prism that takes the white, unbroken light of your higher mind, your greater consciousness, and breaks it down into the beautiful spectrum, the jewel-like spectrum of colors that represent the reflections of your physical reality, of all of your beliefs, all of your definitions, all of your emotions, thoughts, behaviors, and plays them out before you.

The reflections of the game that you have chosen to play, the reflections of the peace you have chosen to be, and all of the understandings of yourself that come with this that render down to the most simple but profound recognition that has always been the truth: **Know yourself. Be yourself.**

Examine. Fear not. Examine yourselves. Be transparent to yourselves. Open up to yourselves. 

For the truth lies within you and the truth will always be beautiful. There is nothing to fear. All of the negative beliefs that you may generate from the neutral circumstance, that you may have about yourself, that you've been taught to buy into about yourself — they will never be ultimately true. They are only true in so far as you make them true, as you believe they are true. They are only true for that moment for you. They are not eternally true.

Remember the fifth law is that all things change except the laws themselves. So anything else besides the laws is not a fact, is not an ultimate truth. It is just a perspective. It is an opinion. It is a belief and those can be changed.

And the changes that you may decide to make when you move from that neutral space and prefer the idea of the positive reflective reality — using everything within it even the negative things in a positive way — the changes that you make change you utterly, totally, completely and absolutely. You are never the same person from moment to moment. Literally, this is not a metaphor. You are never the same person moment to moment literally.

And therefore, as a new person every moment, you have a new future. You have a new past. You have a new now. However it is you choose to define yourself in this moment, in the trinity of existence of all the possible positive, negative, and neutral circumstances that may rise to meet you in your life.

Choose to respond in the way that is true for who you prefer to be. For you are children of the cosmos, children of creation, children of existence, children of infinity, children of eternity. You are indestructible. You exist and therefore always have and always shall.

Yet time is also your illusion. For it isn't really about always having existed. It isn't really about always existing from this point forward. It is only in the now that you exist. For the now is all there is. And everything that you experience happens in that now. But from a different point of view that creates your illusion of time and space and change.

Take a deep breath in and make this reality your own. And breathe it out as your new truth.

Take a deep breath in and crystallize these vibrational frequencies and breathe them out and make it your new truth.

And take a deep breath in and hold it and hold it and hold it as the promise and blow it out, and fill the environment and atmosphere with that radiant energy of your true being, your true essence.

For you are made of light. You are made of the vibration of love. It is your nature. It is your essence. It is your truth.

Continue to breathe this truth easily and deeply like waves upon the shore. In and out. In and out. In and out.

And as you breathe this energy in and remind yourself of all that we have discussed this day and time in this transmission, you will allow all that comes from the neutral center — that may to some be experienced and expressed as negative, and all that comes from the neutral center that may be experienced and expressed as positive — to serve you in the ways that you prefer.

For all things, positive and negative, are a part of creation and are all equally valid.

Balance. Balance. The balance exists within you. It is not outside of you. It will never be found there.

Seek within and you shall find. For it always has been there. Just pay attention and you will see.

Continue to breathe gently, easily, deeply, wrapped in the unconditional arms of creation — nurtured, supported, loved, deserving, beautiful, brilliant, creative, expressive, joyful.

These are your birthrights. This is your nature. Be natural. Be you. That's all you need to do. Just be you.

Continue to breathe. As your lights soften, your music softens. Allow the lights to go down and allow yourself to begin to float in velvety darkness.

Floating in a dream in an endless sea. Supported by the waves that undulate through you, around you, under you, over you, floating along the current that is you. The current that will carry you exactly where you need to be when you need to be there. For the current is you.

Surrender is not the giving up of control. Surrender is allowing yourself to experience the control you already have.

Go with the flow. Breathe.

