---
heading: Part 2 of The Science of Spirit
title: "Hypnosis"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2017-12-01
icon: Bashar
weight: 1217
tags: ['Canada', 'Machu Picchu']
showdate: true
---



### Personal Recommendations

**Participant:** But I've also heard you recommend certain things to people. Read this book. Talk to this person. So what I'm asking for please, is if you have any recommendations, suggestions, or perhaps messages for me at this time.

**Bashar:** You can read the book "Unacknowledged".

**Participant:** April has mentioned that the landing has been postponed for 10 years from 2035 to 2045. Why?

**Bashar:** We said it stretched to about 2040. But it is also diminishing again as things stabilize in your general global society.

we said everything would change in your fall of 2016, which it has. And so, your globe is rearranging its understanding of itself socially, politically, economically. 

So the shift as it occurred in the fall of 2016 that put you in touch with understandings in a different way is responsible for stretching and shifting the timeframe of open contact a little bit, but that was a temporary function and it will come back down, snap back down to a slightly smaller window as you yourselves balance things out from the energy that you've been experiencing.

**Participant:** It's not that our consciousness go back. It's just temporary.

**Bashar:** It's a temporary shift. A reflection of the idea of the shift that occurred.


### Canada Economy and Real Estate

**Participant:** I would like to ask about the Canada economy because seems like back in a few years ago, a lot of people expected there is an economy collapse. But seems like it never happened.

**Bashar:** Well, it's an economy adjustment. Adjustment, and there will be further adjustments in your economy.

**Participant:** So in Canada, the real estate price is going higher and higher while I'm still looking for a place to buy. So do you see there's a window it going back down?

**Bashar:** I can't give you that information. We are not allowed to do that. Trust the synchronicity to guide you. That's the only thing you need.


### Hong Kong and China - 2025 Shift

**Participant:** Another question is about Hong Kong and China. I originally come from Hong Kong. 

Reading a lot of news, I feel that a lot of Hong Kong people are miserable, and also I'm concerned about the China government and how they do. 

**Bashar:** You will find a great shift happening in around 2025 in that region of your planet with an awakening that will change the political structure.


### Magic, Hypnosis, and Channeling Abilities

**Participant:** I'm very passionate about magic and hypnosis. Basically in 2012, I had a sort of awakening where someone helped me awaken what you call my energetic gifts and abilities.

I was very easily able to perceive guides and tap into people and such things like that.

then something happened at some point where suddenly my abilities would go up and down.

**Bashar:**  it means you're progressing, getting used to a new level.

**Participant:** Well, what I wanted to understand was after a few years of that, probably in 2015, I had connected to an aspect inside of myself that I call my magic. and another being named Thoth. I was told that I was going to be doing channelings with him and whatnot.

Well, it seemed to have faded away, the connection.

**Bashar:** No, no, no. there will always be cycles to allow you to integrate and assimilate and absorb and get used to the idea of the different frequencies. 

But you have to take actions that allow more of the energy to come through in different ways. It's not just going to start without you taking the first step.

**Participant:** I would like to just share with people and help other people ignite their gifts, which is what I'm currently doing. However, it feels like I'm using less of my potential than I was using back in 2012 when I first awakened.

**Bashar:** But you are getting used to a new level. It's not that you're using less of your potential. You're just not used to what you're experiencing right now because you're expressing things in a different way.

It's like saying, well, you were proficient with one instrument, but now you're taking another one. And so you may feel like you're not proficient for a while, but that's just because you're getting used to learning how to play a new instrument.

**Participant:** That makes sense. So what are some actions to be more efficient with the channeling?

**Bashar:** How would you like to express the channeling? 

What's the exciting way for you? In a similar way that you and Darryl are doing it?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Then you need to gather a group of people you can start and actually have them ask questions, because you see if you're just trying to download the information for yourself, you don't have to fully go into that altered state. Having someone ask a question allows you to get out of the way and they act like a grounding circuit that literally pulls the information through you to them and grounds it like electricity.

**Bashar:** I've been doing these workshops in that way where I do conscious channeling to a degree.

Each generation is becoming more and more conscious. That's the point, because you develop and become your version of what you're channeling too, so that you can expand.


### Q7: Hypnosis and Its Mechanism

**Participant:**  why hypnosis works in the way that it does in entertainment. Why I could click my fingers and make people experience hallucinations and realities. Why we have that function set up?

**Bashar:** Because it's a technique, a permission slip that allows you to actually unlock from the belief system of one reality and tap into other belief systems. 

**Bashar:** your collective consciousness is geared to do that. Hypnosis is one of the particular permission slips that the collective consensus consciousness agrees can actually almost instantaneously unlock you from a belief system in one particular reality.



### Q8: Egypt, Downloads, and Machu Picchu

**Participant:** So I wanted to talk to you about places on the earth and how we can get downloads. For instance, I was in Egypt. I went inside the King's Chamber. In Cairo. 

I laid down in 2000.

**Participant:** Yes. The room was humming. And I just kept crying and releasing.

**Bashar:** Are you having more releasing now?

**Participant:** Yeah, because I'm remembering.

**Bashar:** when you remember, you're already in the state that you were in when you had the experience. You have to be in that state to even remember the experience.

**Participant:** I got out of the chamber and it broke, never to be worked again.

**Participant:** And I was wondering what kind of downloads did I get in there?

**Bashar:** Well, I'm pretty certain some of them have unfolded in the years hence. Are you following your passion?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Are you feeling more freedom to choose what you want?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Those are results of that experience.

**Participant:** I'm going to be in Machu Picchu this month.

**Bashar:** Oh, how exciting.

**Participant:** Is there anything I can expect?

**Bashar:** Many things will happen if you don't expect them. If you expect, they might not happen. If you stop expecting them, a whole bunch of stuff will happen.

**Participant:** Gotcha. Just be there.

**Bashar:** Exactly. Don't want to spoil your surprise.

**Participant:** So just be there and see what unfolds.

**Bashar:** I can tell you this. You will find something, an actual small object that will be an interesting permission slip for you. I'm allowed to tell you that much from someone who will be working with you there on another level.

**Bashar:** They're willing to give you that hint that as you walk the grounds and look around inside some of the former dwellings, you may find something that has been left for you.

**Participant:** A feather?

**Bashar:** I'm not going to tell you what it is. And again, don't have any particular expectations as to what it is. Otherwise you will block your ability to see it when you actually come across it, because you will think, well, that's not a feather. You understand? Even if it is a feather, you'll block your ability to see it.

**Bashar:** Have no insistence on what it is. Just be there. Let it happen naturally. Let it surprise you. You'll know it when you see it.


### Q9: Shamanic Journey and the Bone Knife

**Participant:** I did a journey with a shaman, and a mentor or teacher came in. He was wearing like... pretty weathered looking face. Black hair.

**Participant:** And he gave me a carved bone knife. Can you help me? Was that a master teacher? And what was...

**Bashar:** It's someone you have familiarity with on a parallel life level.

**Participant:** Okay, that's good enough.

**Bashar:** There is mystery here that will unfold, but there is familiarity with that being. The being is a mentor for you, is a teacher for you. And again, don't get too crystallized in your expectations.

**Participant:** But that being may have something to do with what you will experience in Machu Picchu.
 What was the bone? The carved bone knife. What is that?

**Bashar:** It's a way of... I will just have to put it in this kind of colloquial language: cutting to the bone of the issue. Does that make sense? You're experiencing something that will allow you to see with cutting to the bone of the issue and not getting distracted by what the bone may be wrapped in. Cutting through things that are irrelevant to get to the heart of the matter.

**Participant:** What's that going to have to do with my time in the jungle medicine?

**Bashar:** It has to do with many things. You're on a journey. These are breadcrumbs for you. When you've been on the journey long enough and have collected enough of the breadcrumbs, you will have enough bread to eat that.

---

### Q10: Healing Energy and Electrical Sensation

**Participant:** When I was little, I used to be in church bored out of my mind. So I used to make this electrical feeling come up my legs, but I could only make it come up to my knees. And then as time progressed, I can make it go through my whole body and shoot out my arms into people. And so now I use this feeling to heal people, to allow people to heal themselves. I charge myself up in a sense and then I shoot it out. So can you tell me what that is?

**Bashar:** It's your energy on a frequency level that represents a healed state so that people can, if they choose to align with it, bring themselves back into balance. It's not mysterious in that sense.

**Participant:** I guess I want to know what I can do with it.

**Bashar:** Well, why don't you invent something in your imagination to do with it? Didn't you already just say you use it for healing purposes?

**Participant:** Yeah. I want to say that's not sufficient.

**Bashar:** Is there something else you would like? How else would you like to use it? What's your imagination come up with? Can I give you a hint? How about using the energy to spark your imagination to come up with ways to use it? Can you imagine amplifying your imagination so that you can imagine more ways to use it? Use the energy for that.

**Participant:** Like opening myself up.

**Bashar:** Question or a statement?

**Participant:** I guess a little both.

**Bashar:** Which would you prefer it to be?

**Participant:** A statement.

**Bashar:** Make it a statement then. Is anything stopping you from making that a statement?

**Participant:** No self-doubts about it.

**Bashar:** Then allow yourself to know that if that's the way you're using the energy to open yourself up to receive more information in the way that you need it, then that's what will happen. Use your imagination. Use the energy in your imagination in whatever way works for you and know that it's real in effect.

**Participant:** Synchronistically, I wrote down on the top of my list, "Can you recommend a book for me yesterday?" 

**Bashar:** How about the book of life? Just keep living. That's the only book you need right now.

