---
title: "Dream World"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2019-12-06
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
---


## Dreams: Types, Realms, And The Nature Of Reality

Dreams are of many types. 

Some of them are just what many people think, where you may be reinvestigating, revisiting the things of the day, processing information mentally, emotionally, planning out certain things, coming to certain conclusions while you sleep that might be easier for you to put together when your conscious mind is out of the way, off to the side.

However, there are those things you remember as dreams that your physical mind puts together out of available symbols, props, to help you remember an experience you might have had on another realm, on another dimensional level.

Many times you will go traveling out of your body in dream time and come back with a story, an adventure, with an experience that your physical mind puts together in some form so that you can remember that something did happen.

It may not always be absolutely representative of what you experienced in the other realm.

It will at least be symbolically experiential for you to be able to interpret certain ideas that you bring back with you from those adventures in order to apply them in your physical reality. Because after all, physical reality is just another type of dream.

Spirit is your natural state. You never ever leave it.

You are there right now, all of you.

But a portion of your higher consciousness is dreaming that it's no longer in spirit.

That's what physical reality is: a dream that you are not where you are.

It's a projection of consciousness to give yourself a focus that you can allow a certain kind of experience to happen within your consciousness so as to discover yourself from a new point of view in a very particular way through process, through physical experience. And it is very valid as a type of dream. But that's what it is, a type of dream.

So the more you allow yourself more awareness, more conscious awareness, more lucidity in the dream state itself, the more lucid you can also become in the physical dream by bringing back the information that you need to allow you to do so.

But let's continue with the idea of what goes on in the dream world. Now, this is mostly happening in what most people on your planet refer to as the lower astral realm, a vibrational level of reality of spirit reality that is still very close to the idea of the frequency of physical reality. And therefore, certain kinds of experiences are more likely than others to be had in the dream world. In other words, being that you are still very strongly connected to the concept of physical reality and not actually dying and going farther into the spirit world, so to speak, not fully waking up in spirit, but touching in here and there, you still will generally create certain kinds of experiences in the dream world in the lower astral realm that are at least to some degree reminiscent of some of your experiences in general in physical reality.

So, for example, you may decide to hang out with your soul family in the dream experience, having fun, exchanging ideas, sharing experiences, but generally speaking, you will attempt to do so in some sort of familiar setting. So in other words, in the dream reality, you may decide with your soul family to create a kind of house or a party environment or something that seems similar to what you might experience in a gathering in physical reality. You will create this out of your consciousness very quickly because in the dream world, in the lower astral realm, time and space are not what they are, not experienced as they are in physical reality. So there are many things you can do very quickly as you think of them. So they will appear and in the dream world you can have many different kinds of experiences in different kinds of environments. As you imagine them they will appear for you.

So if for some reason you feel like you want to fly you will fly, creating for yourself the idea of levitation from a physical ground level surface and going on a flying adventure through the clouds or over the mountaintops. Or you may decide to visit a neighborhood that has been created by many people who might live in the lower astral realm for a while before they continue on to higher spiritual realms. Many people will create very familiar kinds of ideas of houses or other kinds of buildings and trees and valleys and mountains and what have you and lakes and streams with the idea of animals and all sorts of other kinds of beings interacting with them in the lower astral realm to express the idea of what it is they wish to experience there.

But again, in the lower astral realm, things are not always exactly as they may appear in physical reality. For example, if you visit one of those neighborhoods that might be created by like-minded individuals in the lower astral realm before they continue on to higher spiritual levels, you may find that every single house in that neighborhood will look a certain way. It might be made out of stone. It might be something from what appears to be the past. It might be something from what appears to be the future. You might find that as you step outside one of those dwellings and look toward the idea of a sunset that the sun might be blue. The sun might be square. You might have five moons in the sky. It depends on what everyone has worked out in that neighborhood for what represents the kind of experience they would like to have while they choose to inhabit the lower astral realm to gain other kinds of experiences.

So, a great many kinds of imaginary experiences can be had there. And very often you will create very specific kinds of adventures with your friends in the lower astral realm for things that cannot necessarily be experienced in your life in your physical reality. You will allow yourself perhaps if you have a house that you dream of having in physical reality to create that house in the lower astral realm and get used to living in it and make changes. This is very close to the idea of what we have called the template level reality where you kind of design your physical experience and things that you wish to experience in physical reality when you wake up in the morning. We use quotes because you're actually going back to sleep when you wake up in physical reality and you're actually waking up when you go to sleep at night and have a dream.

So the idea is that in the template level you may decide to arrange things in a certain way to have certain experiences in physical reality when you wake up in the morning on that day or someday in the future. But all of that planning takes place in that template level in the lower astral realm because again it's so vibrationally close to the idea of physical reality and yet very much removed because you can have certain kinds of experiences there that simply don't match the kinds of experiences you have in physical reality.

Now in that lower astral there are also many other kinds of beings including the idea of those beings on a lower, lower astral realm really close to physical reality, still in spirit but really close to physical reality, of those individuals who may not even necessarily know that they have died. So you can run across the idea of what you call ghosts that may be haunting their old house. You can run across many different kinds of beings there that are playing out certain scenarios for themselves in a variety of ways. Many of you actually interact with some of those spirits. Many of you even help participate with their spirit guides in helping to convince them that they've actually died. These are the kinds of adventures you can have there.

But as long as you still remain in exploring the theme of physical reality, you will always maintain that vibrational energy connection to the physical world. You will not really go that much farther into the idea of the higher spirit until you actually sever that connection. That's why many times when people are in the dream world in the lower astral when they have out-of-body experiences astral traveling so to speak, they will describe the idea of your connection to physical reality as a kind of energy cord, what you typically refer to as the silver cord. That's simply an energetic symbolic way of representing the idea that you have not yet finished your theme of exploring the physical dream. So there will be a representation that sort of anchors you or ties you still to the physical reality. More often than not, it is interpreted as this kind of silver cord. Although again, it's a symbol that is interpreted by your mind in order to have some sense of understanding of what it is that is. It's not necessarily experienced that way or seen that way from the higher spirit realm. It's mostly just seen as a vibrational color that you exhibit that you give off that is in your so-called energetic aura that still indicates that you are still exploring a theme in physical reality. And therefore, the higher spirits, your spirit guides, so on and so forth, will be able to simply recognize by that spiritual color where it is you're at and how far you're actually going to go in that astral realm on your adventures. But they're very happy to speak with you, very happy to communicate with you on that level.

And in that level as well do some extraterrestrial contacts also occur because again different kinds of extraterrestrials including us can alter their vibration in order to experience the idea of the realms near to your physical reality. Being that they are slightly removed from your reality actually acts as a buffer zone to make it easier to have contact with you and explore certain ideas of what you will experience in your physical reality when you reawaken in it. And so many kinds of contact experiences are actually happening in that dream world in that lower astral realm. And again sometimes you may wake up and go, "Oh, well I remember interacting with some sort of an odd being in what seems to be some sort of a giant school bus or something. I don't know." That's your mind attempting to make sense from the symbols at hand in your physical world out of what may have actually been an encounter on a spaceship. Because again, the things that are projected from our consciousness into your reality have to take on certain forms that make sense to your physical mind in order for you to be able to actually use the props to construct the memory that you had some sort of an experience, what you call the dream that you remember upon awakening.

Now, sometimes it can be a little bit more literal and sometimes it can be a little bit more symbolic or abstract, but the idea of the energy vibration is there. And if it feels like there was a high degree of strangeness or oddness to the idea of the dream, that's usually an indication that the symbol you're remembering in your dream is not necessarily the actual thing you experienced, but some sort of a screen that gives you something to hang on to, something familiar to understand so you can piece together an understanding of some kind of an adventure, some kind of an experience. Does this make sense?

All right. So we would then suggest that when you go to sleep tonight before you actually fall asleep, ask yourself, speak out loud and ask for assistance from your spirit guides, from other beings in the astral realm to give you more conscious awareness when you awake in the physical world of exactly what was going on in that dream world so that you can become more lucid in that reality. Realize that that's where you are in the dream. Then you can begin to also allow more lucidity to leak into the dream of physical reality because there really isn't that much difference between the idea of the dream of physical reality and the dreams you experience in the dream world in the lower astral realm. It's a division that is a very fine frequency difference. It's not as big as you think it is. You just have a certain set of belief systems that make you think that the gap is bigger than it is, that the separation and the difference between the physical world and the dream world is very different, very much more different than it actually is. But it's really a very, very thin hair fine difference in frequency.

So when you allow yourself to know that the veil is very thin between the two and that the veil is simply something you're creating with your belief systems, you will begin to experience more and more, shall we say, leakage from the lower astral realm into the physical dream and vice versa where you can become more lucid in both and create yet again a third reality in which you can experience the idea of walking in your dream, waking in your dream, and always constantly dreaming in the same way that my civilization does because we walk through dimensions all the time. It is our natural state at this point in our evolution to always be awake and always be dreaming and always experience through our imagination and connections to our higher minds multi-dimensional experiences with every step we take. It takes some getting used to, but you'll get there.

So allow yourselves to understand that what we are imparting to you this day in this particular transmission is not only the words that you hear, but the vibration of a higher realm, a higher reality, of the astral realm, so as to infuse you with more potential and more probability when you go to sleep tonight to open up to the idea of being more aware of what you're doing in the dream world and bringing that information more clearly back with you through that thin veil into the physical dream. So you can begin to truly wake up in both realities, in both dream states, and start to blend them together into a life that contains far more imagination, far more magic, far more manifestation that is in line with who you truly are and who you prefer to be. Does that make sense?

Then before we continue then with this transmission, we will wish you all pleasant dreams. We thank you for allowing us to share this idea with you to drop that seed into your consciousness so that it may grow. And in return for the gift you are giving us, I ask in what way now may we be of service to you. Please begin with your conversations, dialogues and questions, if you wish.

**DIALOGUES AND QUESTIONS**

Hey Bashar. And to you, good day. Thank you for being here. Thank you for this transmission. It's awesome. Very excited to hear it. All right. Thank you. It is our passion and our pleasure.

So I had a dream maybe a week ago where I was in an airplane. Yes. And I landed or went down like on a highway and next thing I knew I'm driving with my friend and I'm like something's not right here. We were just in an airplane.

Yes. See what I mean about the strangeness, the oddness?

There are different kinds of vehicles that exist in the lower astral realm that are representative of some of the vehicles that sometimes penetrate into your reality that you call UFOs. Right. Is there anything you can tell me about that dream?

I just did. Anything else? When you went from a larger craft to a scout craft. You understand? Yep. So you were in a larger craft with more people, the airplane. And then you got into a smaller vehicle to go back down to the physical reality path, road that you chose to walk, to drive. So you took a different vehicle to get back into physical reality. Right? Many times this will be represented by such a smaller vehicle. Sometimes it will be represented by suddenly having to go down a staircase from where you were. Sometimes it will be represented by having to go down an elevator from where you were. These are various symbols that represent being done with the adventure there and in your mind dropping back down into a lower frequency to go back into the physical dream.

Right. Okay. Does that help?

That does. And all right. Was that a YahYel connection?

A little bit. There was more to it than that, but yes, that was involved.

Okay. Anything else that you can tell me about other beings?

Such as?

Well, you said that it's partly YahYel. I don't know who else. Would there be... So you want to know about the part I didn't tell you about?

Ideally, yes. I see. And why do you think I didn't tell you about it?

I didn't need to know. Thank you. Awesome.

Yes. Anything else?

Yes. One other question. In my house, there is a banging or a clanging noise that seems to happen about once a day. Yes. From any particular place? I can't exactly locate it, but I think it's up towards the ceiling.

Someone trying to get your attention. Yes. All right. And what happens when you experience that? What kind of a state do you go in?

Well, I pay attention to what it is I'm thinking or saying at that time, and I'm like, "Ah."

And is there some particular consistency with what you're thinking when that happens?

Yeah. It's usually that I feel like I'm on the right track.

So you're using that as your synchronistic symbol to let you know when you're in alignment with your true self. Yes. All right. Well, that's coming from your higher mind. Remember the higher mind communicates in energy, in frequencies of energy. It can and often actually does affect the physical reality dream by creating certain vibrations that will manifest as certain sounds and other physical phenomenology in physical reality.

Okay, cool. Your body feeling the communication through the opiates of passion is not the only way that the physical mind has of communicating or reaching into the physical reality. It can get your attention in a number of ways.

So are you paying attention to it?

Yes, absolutely.

So you're acting on your highest passion every moment that you can to the best you can with no insistence on the outcome and remaining in a positive state no matter what happens all the time.

Yes. All right. Mainly you were just under the wire there in terms of your hesitation. Yeah, it doesn't happen all the time. Happens most of the time.

All right. Thank you for your honesty. Anything holding you back from it happening all the time?

Well, so I've been exploring that and what I recently came to was I think the core belief of I'm not worthy.

And why would you still be holding on to that if you are experiencing your joy and your true self and your true vibration most of the time? What is it about the times you're not doing that that seems so much more real that you would hold back at those times? What's the difference between those times where you do feel worthy and so experience your joy, and then in certain circumstances don't feel worthy? What's the difference between those circumstances in your definitions?

Well, it seems like I'm looking inward at those times. Which times? The times when I feel like I'm not worthy. And the times when I know I am worthy, my focus is just on the world outside of me.

And so why are you making a difference between the outer and the inner?

I shouldn't. Well, it's not about should or shouldn't, but why are you? Can it be as simple as you believe there is a difference when there actually really isn't?

Yeah, that must be it. I think that I'm still coming to grips with the idea that the external world is actually contained within my consciousness.

All right. Well, but you are open and willing to understand that the outer world isn't real unto itself and is nothing but a projection of your consciousness. Yes. So the more that you wrap your mind around that understanding and that knowledge, do you believe that your sense of unworthiness when you look inward will begin to lighten up?

Yeah, it definitely will. And if you do in fact examine your beliefs and find that you're still holding on to something that says you're not worthy, are you willing to work with that in that moment and stay in that state at that moment and find out what the belief is really saying about you?

For sure. All right. That's what I want to say. So you can keep walking that path then?

Yes. Keep walking it.

All right. So anything else?

No, I think that's going to do it.

All right. Thank you. Pleasant dreams.

Thank you.

**MANIFESTATION, IMAGINATION, AND FOLLOWING EXCITEMENT**

And to you, good day. I want to tell everybody and you the trick how I got here. I don't know if you're familiar with the person Neville Goddard. He talked about imagination. All right. So basically I was sitting there and I was just imagining as if April, I think is her name, right? April already called my name. Yes. And as if I was actually getting ready to get up, she called my name.

Yes. So this is an example of one of the things that we talked about earlier where sometimes in the non-physical reality you will plan out certain things and then get a sense when you go through your "as if" exercise because you already know you already planned that out and you're about to see it come into manifestation.

Yes. And what's funny is because you're talking about sleep and dreaming. He talks about that it's really powerful to do that right before you go to sleep.

It can be. Is it more powerful than during the day or is there a difference?

It depends on the person. It depends on their biological cycle. Really? Yes. We all have different biological cycles. You do. Now, some of them are somewhat coordinated in general, but nevertheless, there are going to be small differences between all of you individually.

Isn't there something that happens in the sleeping state that makes the imagining before the sleeping state more powerful?

Again, it depends on how it works for different people and what their belief system filters are all about, what they will allow themselves to understand about that and how they use it as a permission slip to give themselves permission to open up to more of themselves.

Okay. Is it true that it's more important to visualize in first person and as if it is already happened?

In a sense, yes, because you're bringing it more into the moment rather than assuming that it's somewhere in the future. But remember that when we describe the idea of how to use the mechanism of visualization, it's very important once the visualization is at its peak and has gotten you into the most excited state possible that you completely and utterly drop the picture. Because you don't actually know that the picture, the image, the visualization that your physical mind was capable of coming up with is actually the ideal outcome for you. It may be symbolically representative of it, but it may not be literally representative of it. And that's why it's important to allow it to get you into the proper state to receive the proper outcome, but to not insist that the picture your physical mind came up with is really the end all be all of what could happen that might even manifest even better than your physical mind was capable of imagining.

Would you say that the most important thing is really the state of being, the excitement?

We have said that many times. State of being is what it's all about.

Okay. And about the process of following your excitement, of acting on it, acting to the best you can with again no assumption, no insistence on what the outcome should be, and finally remaining in a positive vibration no matter what manifests so you can get the benefit from it no matter how it looks. So I've been practicing it for some time now, some years and I'm really like passionate about it.

Oh, all right. I love it. That's think it's the truth because I'm really excited about it. All right. And I came to experience that the having no expectation, having no insistence... No, no, no. What's the difference between? Well, you can expect something to happen. You can expect in general that you will have a positive experience. We're simply saying don't insist on the details because you don't really know what the details need to be to get you where you need to go. But you can expect to have a positive experience if you're going to remain in a positive state, of course, because that's just physics. What you put out is what you get back. So as long as you stay in a positive state, then it doesn't matter to you what really happens because you know that no matter what happens, you'll be able to get a positive and beneficial effect from it. So who cares how it looks?

So if I follow my excitement, if I just in general feel like, okay, something good is coming out of this, that's valid.

Absolutely. Because even if something manifests that you objectively, neutrally don't prefer, don't vibrate in harmony with, you have to know it's got to be there for a reason that does serve you. So if you stay in a positive state, you'll be able to get the benefit of why it's there. Whereas if you went into a negative state like "oh that doesn't belong here," then you're not going to get a positive experience from it because you have invalidated the fact that it showed up in your life when in fact it could be serving you by showing up in your life even if it's something you don't prefer. Okay. So yes, it's all about the state of being that you choose to be in that determines what you get out of that experience. No matter how it looks, no matter how it was created, no matter what anyone else's experience or opinion is about it, no matter what old-fashioned definitions may be attached to it from your society, if you stay in a positive state, you will get a beneficial effect no matter what anyone else experiences.

Okay. You were talking about belief systems. Yes. And I follow you and I'm sure you know about Abraham Hicks.

I do.

Yeah. And I was wondering because I'm trying to combine and not be so confused about... What are you confused about?

So what I'm confused about is for example they say let's say you have 10 subjects in life like maybe health, relationship, money, etc. Yes. And maybe three of them suck for example.

Let's say yeah, you understand that's a negative definition, right?

That's true. Thank you. What I think for you to better understand my question is they say that to focus on the one that's positive and keep your focus there. Keep your state there while you're dealing with the one that you have defined as sucking.

Because the idea is you need to find out why you're defining it as sucking. That's the purpose of that coming up is to figure out why it's not something that you believe is actually beneficial to you. So stay in the positive state with the things you have that relationship with. At the same time be in a positive state when you deal with things that are vibrationally incompatible to the definitions you have given it.

But what if you are in a challenge, a certain challenge let's say with money. Yes. And by focusing, they say focusing on even the positive side of the stick you still activate the other side of the stick which you don't feel so positive about. And they say it's easier to focus on... Some people may agree with that particular technique but it's up to you. No matter what they tell you and no matter what we tell you, it's up to you to decide what works best for you. You get to go: I like a little bit from column A, I like a little bit from column B, I like a little bit of what they're saying in column C, and I'm going to put my own ABCs together that works for me because it has to come from different sources in slightly different ways with different terminology because there are different belief systems that need to hear things and see things in different ways in order to understand them. So you get to decide what part of what we're saying to you works, what part of what they're saying to you works, and you get to design your own particular permission slip out of all of that.

I love that. But isn't the underlying thing to always follow excitement? Isn't that the underlying...

Yes. Because what is your excitement? What is passion? That's what we've described. Your higher mind communicates in energy frequency language. That energy frequency language is translated by your physical body as the sensation of passion, excitement. So when you are willing to act on it, you are responding to the higher mind's message through the language of physical reality, which is action. Therefore, the higher mind knows, "Oh, he heard me, so I will give him more things to be excited about." But if you don't act on the passion you've already been given, why should you be given more?

Okay. So you would advise us to pick whatever we are drawn to the most in the moment.

Absolutely. That's why you follow the thread of excitement wherever it leads no matter in what form it comes because you don't really always understand exactly why it came in that form. Never have an insistence or an assumption that the form the excitement comes in has to come to fruition in the way most people on your planet think because you don't know why it came to you in that particular way. Sometimes that thing may come to fruition. But very often because of the kinds of belief systems people on your planet buy into that block you from acting on things, sometimes your excitement has to come in a form that will simply do nothing more than get you off your butt.

I like that.

So that you will move, take an action that then puts you where you need to be so that what actually needs to manifest can manifest. So your excitement will often trick you into being a better self.

Okay, I want to tell you about one more experience I had recently or like the last 3 months. There is energies flowing through my body. Yes. And there is energy that sometimes is like I think they call it samskara where it's like blocked and painful in certain areas.

Yes. But the idea of energy that is quote unquote "blocked" is not really blocked. It's pointing out that there is some incompatible belief system within you and therefore there is resistance. That's actually what causes pain: resistance to the natural flow. Yes.

So pain where I felt pain and then what I did was I went to the observer and observed it but I relaxed around the pain. Yes. Does it... Yeah. And it moved. Yes. And without me like questioning belief system, I feel like tears come out and like... Yes. because you're letting go of the chemical constituents of beliefs that don't work for you. They usually wash out through your tears. Is that positive?

Yes. And what it's coming... I do this sometimes I do this like 2 hours, 3 hours and they're coming out and moving and everything's moving.

That's your permission slip. But it keeps... Why do new ones always keep coming?

You are very multi-leveled like most humans on your planet. You have many different compartments with many different kinds of belief systems about yourself ensconced in those compartments. And the whole idea of having a physical reality is to actually go through the process of opening every single one of them and letting those belief systems go. And that's fine. That's the point of the life itself. It's not something to in a sense get past or get through. It's something to be in the moment with and let yourself experience the beauty of those releases.

So I should just keep going with it. Well, why not? Because I don't know when I do it if I... because I feel like that's actually focusing on the negative instead of focusing on following my highest excitement.

Remember, remember, remember the paradox in the kit of excitement. There are tools and one of the tools is the reflective mirror that reveals to you as you're acting on your excitement any belief within you that might be out of alignment with your excitement. So the paradox is part of your excitement is to discover things within you that are not part of your excitement. So that could be part of your excitement because once you discover something that is not you, oh joy, now you have something you can let go of. Where if it remains unconscious you have nothing to work with. Does that make sense?

Yeah that makes sense.

So it's exciting to discover something that doesn't belong to you that you now are aware of, which means you can let go of it because you can't let go of it if you're not aware of it. So that's exciting. So stay in the exciting state even when you experience things within you that are not exciting. And then you'll be able to use them in a positive way and let them go and streamline yourself to be able to experience more and more excitement no matter what's happening. Remember again, it's not about what happens, it's about what you do with what happens that makes the difference in your life.

What do you think about the better feeling thought?

Whatever permission slip works for you. Do you understand our concept of permission slips? It's whatever... use what? Permission slip is any technique, any ritual, any tool, any object that allows you to give yourself permission to be more of who you are. Permission slips that you're attracted to, you're attracted to usually because they align with your belief system. And the paradox again is that the permission slip you're attracted to is a permission slip that will allow you to circumvent your belief system because you believe you need that in order to do so. And that's fine. That's how the tool works. So any tool, any technique, any ritual, any object that you are attracted to use is perfect for you at that moment. So use it.

What means more of who you are? What does that mean? Because you said you are a greater being than this physical mind. Yes. Then as you allow yourself to let go of negative beliefs, you get to express more of that greater being in physical reality, to be more of who you truly are as a greater being.

And I feel that by following my excitement, that's the formula that allows it to work most easily because you raise your frequency when you act on your passion. When you raise your frequency, you become a better receiver of higher frequency information and energy.

Okay. Yes. Do you have any advice for me last?

I just gave you the advice.

Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much.

Thank you. So great.

**SASQUATCH, PORTALS, AND THE YUKON**

Hello. And to you, good day. I'm so excited to be here. Oh, I am so excited you are there. I'm really grateful for Darryl and you doing this and passing on your message. I've learned a lot from you. All right. And our deep appreciation to you and all of you as well. Thank you.

Well, I came here from the Yukon. Are you familiar with that area?

Are you saying you're from a potato?

I come from northern Canada next to Alaska. Oh, all right. Up there in the Yukon, like a lot of people have seen a lot of UFOs. It's very common. I'm wondering if it's like a hot spot area like Arizona or if there's a vortex or something.

Yes, there are certain kinds of portals and vortices on your planet in the natural grid of the energy of the earth that make it a little bit more conducive for certain kinds of passage from one realm to another.

Yes, there was a really famous sighting up there that a lot of people I know saw or their family saw. It was a very large saucer that covered a lake called Fox Lake or Little Fox Lake. Do you know anything about it? Like who was flying that ship? Who was in that?

Well, there were several different kinds of beings on that ship. Oh, cool. It's an observational ship, what you might call an exploratory ship. Taking different kinds of observations and readings of certain areas on your planet to gauge and understand certain things both in energy levels and other kinds of readings such as pollution levels and so on and so forth to see how you're all doing.

Interesting. Were there any human beings on board?

From time to time there have been, but not as a permanent resident, not as a permanent part of the crew.

Interesting. There's also a lake called Ethel Lake there that has a very... it's very significant to the First Nations people up there and I feel like it has quite an interesting vibration. So I'm curious if that has anything to do with UFO or extraterrestrial activity.

It does, and perhaps even more so interdimensional activity. So it is kind of a vortexy, portal-y area. For taxi portal-y? I suppose you could put it that way.

How would you put it?

Yes. Okay, that's wonderful. The Yukon's known for its gold. There's a history of the gold rush was up there and there's still quite a bit of gold mining. Yes. Is there any relationship between these highly conductive minerals?

Yes. Because remember the idea is that gold is inert, stable, highly conductive, and therefore very conducive to the idea of maintaining certain energy levels in certain areas where there are large deposits of it. It is an eternal metal in that sense. It never rusts. It never corrodes. It never changes. Gold is gold through the ages, through the eons, through the millennia. Gold is gold.

So is it like a communication device or just an energetic stabilizer?

It can be used that way. Yeah. But it is an energetic stabilizer.

Cool. So it could be used in technologies as well?

Well, you already do use gold in your technologies from time to time, but it can be used in many other ways other than the ways in which you are already using it.

Yes. Right. Does the Yukon have any particular species of extraterrestrial that hangs out there more than others?

It has large groups of Sasquatch.

Yes. Thank you. You know how many people up there are just going to want to hug you for saying that? So the Sasquatch, are they related to like Cro-Magnon? There's a lot of stories about that.

They are mostly related to the idea of the early natural evolved hominids on your planet that you refer to as Homo habilis. Interesting. Homo erectus. The idea of the ancient extraterrestrials called the Anunnaki who arrived on your planet hundreds of thousands of years ago and used some of those early hominid beings to inject genetic material in them and create Homo sapiens did not necessarily use every branch of the hominid. The ones that were not altered by extraterrestrial genetics continue to evolve into what you now understand to be Sasquatch. Therefore, they are the naturally evolved hominid of the Earth. If the extraterrestrials had not altered the DNA of some of the Homo habilis, Homo erectus beings, today you would all be Sasquatch.

I believe it. But they have evolved to the point where they understand how to use interdimensional vortices and that's why they're so difficult to find. That's also what the First Nations teach up there. They call it "slipwalking." They can slip from one reality to another. Is there a whistling? People talk about them whistling.

Yes. Sometimes that's part of their language.

Fascinating. So you speak Sasquatch? Do you guys communicate with the Sasquatches?

Yes. Okay. Got it. That's really amazing. Also, wow, I've got so many questions for you, Bashar. There is one particular female Sasquatch in that area that the information on which has actually been downloaded into the channel for his use in his novels. The name of that female Sasquatch is Tmiqquest. Tmiqquest. Tmiq. Yes. So in that area you may allow yourself in meditational form in contacting and connecting to nature and the earth to open up to the idea of the vibrational name of Tmiqquest and see what happens.

Cool. Yes. I hear it is quite cool up north.

It is. Yeah. That's right. It's nice here in LA.

I have so many questions for you. Can I continue for the moment? Okay.

**THE NATURE OF THOUGHTS, BELIEFS, AND WALK-INS**

What are thoughts?

Thoughts are one of the ways that the belief system uses the physical mind to reinforce their validity so that they can perpetuate themselves. In other words, belief systems have a certain structure. Since physical reality isn't really real, beliefs have to make you believe that they are. And therefore, they have to reinforce themselves to make you think that physical reality is solid and real. Therefore, beliefs will generate emotions. They will generate thoughts. They will generate behaviors and thus generate experiences to reinforce the reality of what the belief is telling you is a fact when in fact it's nothing more than a belief. But they have to do that in order for you to have a physical experience. Otherwise, if you didn't believe them, you would not be able to actually maintain a physical experience. You would see right through the illusion that your consciousness is creating.

Now, when positive beliefs do that, you usually don't mind. But the negative beliefs have to use negative reinforcement. That's just the way they're designed. So, in order to perpetuate themselves as a negative belief, they will usually do things and use tools and techniques in your emotions, in your thoughts, and in your behaviors to make sure you don't let them go. So, one of the techniques they often use is fear. They make you afraid that if you let them go and stop believing in what they're telling you that something worse will happen. That's just an illusion. It's just the way they work. You have to see through that as an illusion. Make sense?

It does. But I'm now wondering, are they unavoidable then because they help us create our physical experience?

Yes. But the idea is to then get to a place where you're in balance with yourself so that you can simply allow yourself to hold on to the positive beliefs, knowing that the negative beliefs are always there as a choice, but you simply don't prefer to choose them. You're not invalidating them. You simply recognize that they're there as an equal choice to anything you could believe is true. And you simply choose what you prefer without invalidating what you don't prefer.

Yes. I understand. And when you experience a behavior, have an experience, have a thought, have a feeling, you know that it is the belief generating all of those because you cannot have a feeling or a thought or a behavior or an experience in a vacuum. You have to believe something to be true first. It's the blueprint. The emotions are the builders of the house. The thoughts are the building materials that they use. The behaviors are the way the builders are building the house and the experience is the house that was built that you live in. So if something is off-kilter with the house and you don't feel comfortable in it, go back to the blueprint and look at the blueprint. Say, "Oh yes, I see the blueprint is off here and off there. Let me put that back into alignment." Now the emotions that are generated by the beliefs to reinforce themselves as real will follow the blueprint and build the house with the correct building materials in the proper method of building and they will build the house that you will be comfortable living in. Always go back to the blueprint. Always go back to the belief system. That's what generates it to begin with. So you use emotions and thoughts and behaviors and experiences to ask: what would I have to believe is true about myself in this circumstance in order to feel, think, behave, experience what I am feeling, thinking, behaving, experiencing? Then you can always trace it back, make the adjustments and have a different experience because everything starts with the belief. Everything starts with the definition you buy into as true. Does that make sense?

Oh, absolutely. That makes a lot of sense.

So it takes me to another question. I'm assuming you're familiar with the term a walk-in.

I am.

And it's not what most people on your planet think. A walk-in is simply an upgrade in your own soul expressing more of itself through the same body. It's not literally a different other soul. It is your soul expressing more of itself where the personality has released enough of its inhibitions and limitations so that it can express more of its true self, more of its higher mind, more of its soul through the same body. It will take on a completely different personality aspect since personality is an artificial construct anyway. It's a mask. You are already all channeling yourselves into physical reality as these personality constructs, as these masks that represent what part of your greater being you are able and willing and allowing to come through. So when you have an upgrade within yourself, when you have a realization, a revelation, an aha moment, you can easily kick yourself to a higher vibrational frequency level and allow more of your true self, your full self to come through, which will automatically, of course, alter the personality to some degree because it has to in order to represent the upgrade. It's very cool.

Again, whatever temperature you want it to be. So well, I'm from the Yukon, so everything's cool.

All right. So yeah, that makes me wonder then, so by your awareness, would you say that it's true that there aren't multiple occupants of the same body?

Because there is no emptiness within your body. Your body is your spirit in physical terms.

Wonderful. Because that would have been my next question. For anything else, you're not even occupying it. Your spirit isn't in your body. Your body is in your spirit. Your body is in your consciousness. Yes. Remember this is an illusion. You never actually leave the spirit realm. You're just pretending that you have.

Understood. Well then, so when you're saying with a walk-in experience, the leveling up is outside of your physical body in the first place. Like the leveling up is happening on the spirit level, so to speak.

Yes, it's outside your body if you want to put it that way for convenience. But that's just physical terminology. That's just the way you experience things from a space-time perspective. Does that help?

It does actually. It answers one of the other questions that I had. Well, thank you for allowing us to be so synchronous and efficient. Well, thank you so much for letting me come up here and ask you a question directly. Thank you for having the willingness and the boldness to do so. Thank you for all your gratitude.

**SYNCHRONICITY, ASTRAL REALMS, AND HYBRIDS**

Hello, Bashar. And to you, good day. Good to talk to you again.

And you as well. Recently I had Darryl on my TV show. Yes. An interview with Ed. And during the interview we all had a strange moment where the microphone pack popped off his belt. Yes. And we were talking about contact experiences, contacting you in the physical. And right at that moment, synchronistically, pop goes the pack and the microphone got ripped off. Yes. And we were kind of laughing and joking and saying what a synchronicity. And are you going to ask if I was involved?

Yes. I kind of already knew the answer, but it's always nice to have this direct interaction.

Yes. So yes.

All right. Next question. Well, I believe you have just answered it. So okay. Well, thank you. You helped.

Yes. Speaking of dreams. Yes. So in the lower astral realms, you were talking about lower astral realms where the ghosts hang out and these kinds of things. Is that similar to where the hybrids hang out?

It's a little bit higher than that. It's more the higher astral.

So when there's discussion of the hybrid realities merging with our realities, and we're getting closer to this dream state, you're actually moving your frequency a little bit more into the astral realm, still thinking it's the same physical realm when it's not. So that's part of the entire idea of the transformation and the ascension going on on your planet at this time is that you're actually no longer in the physical reality you used to be in. You're at a different level of it. You're at the level of it where the people let's say from 500 years ago would think you were ghosts.

Ah.

Will we become ghosts to them 500 years ago? Will we be able to interact with our 500 years?

Some of you already have become ghosts to them.

Interesting. Yes.

So when we go back in say a meditation to do healing work for our past versions of ourselves, is that sort of in a sense are we becoming dreams for those versions?

Sometimes you do it that way. Yes. Leaving breadcrumbs for them to follow. You bootstrap yourself up from the future, so to speak. That's why recently in a transmission, we talked about the idea that one of the things that is a major shift in your reality now is not so much gaining the information and experiences that you need in the present from the past, but from your future self, right? So that you pull yourself forward closer to the future. "Come on, little doggies. Come to be me. Here's some information for you so you can be more like me from the future, not the past."

Interesting. So recently I had a dream. It was actually a few weeks prior to the crystal skull event you had with the Mitchell-Hedges skull. Not really making the connection until like the day before the event. That's all right. I had a dream of a very vivid, realistic dream of a UFO coming over a cliff, coming very close and then projecting a hologram of a skull on my right.

Yes. The template for the original master skull. Interesting. And then you keep saying that. All of this is so interesting. It is. And that has sort of started a number of secret synchronicities on a quest for the skulls.

And are you having fun on that quest?

Very much. All right. Kind of busy with my show, so I'm trying to get that off the plate. Isn't that part of your quest?

It is part of the quest. All right. It is. And so yes, speaking of skulls. You mentioned before that perhaps there were... and this is my interpretation, I may have got it wrong, but there were hybrids being keepers of some of the skulls. And I'm wondering if those were... we're talking about a different level here. We're not talking about on physical reality. We're talking about some of the higher astral places that we've already discussed, and they are the keepers of the templates of the skulls.

Templates. So like astral versions of the skull.

Yes. Okay.

So they're not necessarily alive in physical bodies on the planet. That would be a different... the hybrids. Not yet. But again, remember as things merge, we merge the worlds together and they become physical on your world and you become more astral in theirs. And this is why we keep saying you need to meet us halfway, right?

And for some of these skulls, they have different names. We got into Cucumatz. We got into Sequoia and Pleiades representing different archetypes. What... maybe this came across before, I may have missed it, but what did the pale skull represent? What archetypal energy?

Do you not understand the idea of the power of fire in the earth? I do. Yeah. It represents the idea of blood. Ah, the lava is the blood of the earth. So blood archetypes. I will do some research on that. Oh, all right.

And with different races seeding the planet, we've talked about Mayans in the past. I'm wondering if you could go into what ET races helped seed that race, the race of the Mayans. What do you mean what ET races? The Mayan or archetypal energies I should say connected to the Mayans. Would it be more of a Pleiadian energy or a Sirius energy or some other type of ET?

The Mayan people that you know of on the Earth are the ancestors of an extraterrestrial race that are the Maya. Ah, okay. Most of them left. Many of them stayed. And that's... but they are connected genetically to you in many ways. Not only through the idea of the Pleiadians, which are the evolved versions of the Anunnaki of long ago, but also through the ancient Annunaki and many other races.

So the Anunnaki would be closer to the Pleiadians than to Sirians?

It depends. Depends. Yes. Oh, because the Sirius beings that are physical are amphibious. Okay. They don't look like you. Exactly. So more of a humanoid salamander.

Fascinating. All right. Well, thank you for this.

You're welcome. I have a lot to think about.

All right. Thanks again.

**TRAUMA, VICTIMHOOD, AND COMPASSION**

Hello, Bashar. And to you, good day. I'm sure you've answered this at another time, but it doesn't matter. Every time is the first time. Thank you. I've worked with traumatized communities and those who've survived atrocities. Yes. How can I reconcile the belief that we co-create our reality with the fact that atrocities happen to groups of people, the indigenous, the Holocaust? All right. I have a hard time believing that all these people created their atrocities. If you were teaching these principles to people in a refugee camp, people who survived atrocities, who witnessed their family members shot by ISIS, for example, what more would you say to them? How would you explain to them what happened? Or at least what would you say to me, someone who has worked with survivors and wants to bring these teachings to them in a way that they could hear?

All right. Well, there are many approaches to this. And of course, the approaches may be different for different people. We can't necessarily give you a panacea for everyone. I understand. But the idea in general would be perhaps to begin with the understanding that what we're saying is not that someone necessarily wants those specific things to happen. But those things happening are the result of holding on to negative belief systems in general that then cause that to be the most probable result of those fear-based belief systems. That's a very generalized concept. But the idea also can be approached on a more individual level. And I understand that many people on your planet may have a challenge with this at first. That's all right. But by asking the question, what have you learned that you otherwise might not have learned had this not happened this way?

And after that discussion, can you use your imagination to imagine some other way you might have learned this rather than that way? Because all these things are about learning lessons and some of them are about learning the lessons of how not to learn the lesson that way anymore. The idea sometimes is that souls will choose to be born into what you call hardships and experience atrocities because many of them figure that through the idea of numbers, ultimately if enough people on your planet go through that, will it make you stop? Will you finally get sick and tired enough of doing that way and change what you need to change so that those things don't happen that way again? How much more will you put up with? How much more will you allow to continue that you know will probably result in those kinds of experiences? When will you open your eyes? Is this making some sense?

Yeah. Is this helping somewhat?

All right. I know this is a process and again I understand that there may be some challenges and some complexity to this and a process that you may have to go through, but it can begin for many people with what we have just said. Getting them to examine their own fear-based beliefs about their sense of worthiness or lack thereof can be a beginning. And again, please understand, it doesn't excuse a perpetrator for someone to realize that they need to take responsibility for their part in co-creating an experience that they may not prefer. That's not an excuse of the perpetrator. Yes. Because it's up to the perpetrator to be strong enough to refuse the call from someone who considers themselves to be a victim. Because it takes a victim to make a victim. You understand? The chain must be broken by someone willing to finally take responsibility for their part in the co-creation before their eyes can be open enough to realize that the perpetrator is also a victim. Yes. And when you understand that, you'll be able to break the cycle.

I understand it in myself. I've had a hard time teaching it to people who are... I understand again that it may be a challenge for many people because of the belief systems they have ensconced within themselves. Because for many people on your planet, they have been taught that it's much easier to simply continue to play the victim card. But that's actually a belief in lack of self-empowerment. That's where it starts: a feeling of disconnection from source. It's important to teach people they are as powerful as they need to be to create whatever they need in life without having to hurt themselves or anyone else in order to attract or create it. It's about letting people understand how things work and that even when they feel out of control, the true paradox is they actually have to be in control to create an experience of being out of control because they're controlling that experience. And when their minds are open to the power of paradox and they see that they can never actually be out of control, but that they can use their control to create an experience of being out of control, when they see the difference between those two states, they will begin to wake up and take some more responsibility for what they create in their lives or what they are afraid they will create in their lives, which is tantamount to the same thing as wishing it to be so.

Because people who believe they are victims, truly believe that in their heart of hearts and truly find themselves unworthy, will go out of their way to prove it over and over again by attracting perpetrators who are too weak to refuse them, to drive the point home that you should feel sorry for them because see, I was right, I'm a victim. Is this helping to dissect this a little bit further?

Yeah, I mean part of the challenge for me is having worked around human rights people working in the human rights field who then have accused me of blaming the victims when I try to empower.

And so that's your challenge: to find ways of describing what we're describing to you in this way, but that doesn't guarantee they will understand you because again sometimes those people shout the loudest who also believe themselves to be victims. But you may never get them to understand that. And that's all right. All you can do is do what you do. You share. You give people options. That's how you help. What they do with the information you share is none of your business. That's right. Because it's their path and you have no idea what they may need to experience on their path. But I can guarantee and you can guarantee one thing: whether they learn that in this life or not doesn't matter because everyone is an eternal and infinite indestructible being. And if they don't get it now, they'll get it somewhere. And it's not necessarily your job to say where, how, or when. Just give them the option and let them deal with it when they believe the timing is correct. And it may not be in this life, but as long as you've given it to them, at least it's in their toolkit. And maybe somewhere down the line in this life or some other level they will sweep away the dust and see the beautiful gem that you have left for them, finally recognizing the gift that you gave them.

Thank you. That's very helpful.

**DESIRES, WANTS, AND NEEDS**

Another question I have is there are those traditions... and you've I'm sure again answered this before... traditions that teach us that it's important to become free of desires.

Well, you know, again terminology may be confusing. The idea of desires, of course like any word in your language, can mean positive and negative things. So again, if there is the negative use of that idea, then yes, of course, it's important to be free of that to some degree. But the positive use of the idea is tantamount to what we're calling passion in life. So you just have to understand how you're using the energy, not get quite so caught up in the terminologies that can go either way because different people may mean different things with different words. Exactly. Yes. So understand the intent of it, the energy of it, and then you will understand what you're talking about.

So the negative energy of desires, is that the insistence on something? Is that what they're really talking about?

Yes. Because you think you know better when you don't. And therefore, you create this relatively negative attachment to things having to be a certain way in order for things to go the way you want them to go, as opposed to simply knowing that if you get what you need, you will be fulfilled because needs will fulfill you. Sometimes your wants may coincide with what you need. But very often on your planet, because of fear-based belief systems, the wants come from the idea of the fear-based ego. And what you want often will not necessarily align with what you actually need to fulfill you in life. So it's very good to understand the difference between wants and needs. Everything you need will fulfill you. Everything you want won't always.

Make sense?

Absolutely.

So let synchronicity show you what you need and you will be fulfilled. Does that help?

That helps. Thank you.

**THE HEART AND THE MIND**

I have one more question. I wanted to talk about the heart and the mind. So some teachings devalue the mind. Tell us that it's in the way of making spiritual progress.

Is that the physical mind the way you define it? The physical mind is the physical personality. It's the belief systems that make up the idea of again the emotions, the thoughts, the behaviors. Yes. And so how is the heart connected to the higher mind? The higher mind sends a vibrational energy that the heart feels more purely because it's not yet filtered through the belief systems. But then it bounces, shall we say, it reflects off the heart to the physical mind through the belief systems. And the degree to which the belief systems filter it so that it's not necessarily in alignment with the reflection from the heart shows the difference in how many negative belief systems may be being held on to by the physical mind.

Yes. And how is love and compassion connected? Is that heart?

Well, again, the heart does have a type of thinking and compassion is a recognition that those that are going through their own particular journeys have the power to do so. That you have to see them as strong enough to get through that journey, to face the challenges that they've created and attracted in their lives. That is having compassion. And the idea is that you know heart-to-heart that they are indestructible beings and you can root for them in that sense without necessarily agreeing with them in terms of what it is they believe to be true. That's compassion. You believe in them even when they don't believe in themselves. That's compassion. Does that make sense?

Yes.

And that is unconditional love. Yes. Which is the vibration of existence itself. And that's that feels like the higher mind. The higher mind uses that vibration, uses that energy, definitely flows unconditional support and love to you. It's a kind of a conduit for that in terms that can be understood in physical reality, which is why it translates as passion in you.

Okay, that's interesting. Yes. Thank you so much.

You are so welcome.

**A SHARED UFO EXPERIENCE AND ITS MEANING**

Nice to meet you. And to you, good day. So Darryl in a video said that he had an experience with a UFO.

My ship. That's correct. Yes. I know it's correct. Thank you. I in the late 90s with my mom and my stepfather saw a very similar ship in New Jersey. Yes. Actually a very similar experience entirely where it shot off into outer space at the speed of light. Darryl said that that experience took him to now be a channel. Yes. It began him doing research that ultimately led him to understand that channeling existed and therefore was willing to go into that particular experience of learning that as part of his research which then fulfilled the agreement that was made for him to do this with us in this life. Right. Was there a purpose in which I had that experience? To some degree, although it might express itself somewhat differently, I believe that from that experience is what put me on a path of being somewhat agnostic. I didn't resonate well with many different religions. Yes. And I didn't really look too far into spirituality until this last year. Probably due to this last year being a very horrific time for myself.

Oh, horrific. How exciting. And what did you learn about yourself from that experience?

Well, I think one of the reasons why I shunned religion is because it wasn't very tangible to me. When I realized that spirituality and extraterrestrial five-dimensional beings are somewhat intertwined, it gave me a sense of realization that this is something tangible. Obviously because I had a physical experience. Exactly. Where do you want to take it? What do you want to do with that experience? How do you want to express it?

It's actually led me on a much different path in my life than I ever expected. I guess one of my questions for you is that when you go through dark periods in life, I'm personally going through something that is an ongoing legal issue.

Oh, how exciting for you. Are you looking at it that way?

Yes, I actually now am. Thank you. So not so dark anymore. It's actually one of the most enlightening experiences of my life and has been very exciting more in my life now even with this whole entire dark looming thing going on.

If it's enlightening you, it's not so dark, is it?

The outcomes are still very scary.

Why? Well, don't you trust your synchronicity to bring you what you need?

I do.

Well, you can't say "I do but" because to say "I do but" means I don't. So you do or you don't. Trust the way your life unfolds. Trust that synchronicity is going to bring you what you need in a way that you can use it to your advantage. Yes or no? There's no middle ground to that.

Is that what you would define intuition being?

Intuition is part of the communication between your physical and higher mind. But a stronger indication is the passion that we talk about because that's unmistakable.

How can you decipher your thoughts between your intuition?

Do your thoughts resonate with the idea of alignment with your passion? Well, sometimes negative thoughts creep in. That's fine because if they don't creep in, you won't know they're there and then you have no way of letting them go. So you have to stay in that moment when they creep in. Not try to get past it. Stay in that moment and find out what you would have to believe is true about yourself in that circumstance that you would experience a negative thought because it doesn't have to be experienced that way. You're choosing to experience it that way by holding on to a belief that filters your energy in that way. So if that's not what you prefer, find out what you believe to be true about yourself and realize that that's not a belief you prefer to hold on to.

Can you manifest future outcomes when other people are co-creating a negative experience for you? Can you manifest something different than what they're assuming will happen?

Absolutely. Because it's your reality. It's not theirs.

Can you tell me if it's going to be a positive outcome given my situation?

Well, if I said no that it wasn't going to be, are you telling me that you'd be willing to believe me?

No, actually. Thank you. Then I guess it'll be positive, won't it? Don't give me your power. I don't need it. I don't want it. It's yours. It doesn't belong to us. It belongs to you. Use it. It's yours.

Do you have any idea which star seed I am?

Repeat the question. Which star seed? People, you mean what star systems you have connected to? Yes. You don't come from anywhere but Earth. Do you understand this question? Right. I am an earthling. You are right. But you make connections to other civilizations and you're connected to some of the ones that many people are connected to such as Orion and Sirius and the Pleiades and so forth and some other ones, and of course hybrids or we wouldn't be having this conversation. Right.

I read the Bringers of Dawn which enlightened me to the Pleiades. Yes. And in fact as soon as I heard the word Pleiadian it resonated with me. So you sparked.

Right. All right. Well, why don't you stay in that spark? In fact, one of Darryl's videos or well, I guess your video as well had a huge spark in me as well when I realized that Darryl had the very similar experience as me. It actually made me cry quite honestly.

Oh, all right. Well, thank you. Validated, you know, my own experience.

Yes. Any idea when any extraterrestrial beings will bring themselves into this physical reality?

Open contact. Yes. Still somewhere between the idea of 2033, 2040 most likely.

Will that bring down the idea of religion? Wouldn't that conflict with religion?

Not on the version of Earth that they're going to land on. It'll already be meeting them halfway. Remember, there are simultaneously multiple versions of Earth. So the versions of Earth that may not be able to resonate to that won't experience a landing, won't experience contact. The versions of Earth that do resonate to it will. Which version are you going to be on?

Staying in the concept of dreams, what are recurring dreams? Do they have any different meaning than other ones?

Yes. And of course it can again mean many different things. It can be representative of kind of a touchstone where you keep touching into something that has information for you. It may be the idea that you attempt to tell yourself something or the higher mind is telling you something that you're not yet paying attention to. So it will tell you again and again and again until you understand the symbolic meaning in communication of the dream. It can be for many different kinds of reasons. You have to take it on a person-by-person basis and also understand the symbols of the dream.

What about if you have a dream that completely does not resonate with you whatsoever, such as for example you're doing something that's... or something's happening to you that it's an awful thing to think of such as I don't know like I've been shredded by Freddy Krueger in my dreams. I mean nightmares.

Oh, exciting. So since that symbol actually represents the idea of being afraid to dream. Being afraid to dream. Being afraid to live your life as fully as you could. Because you think you'll get shredded.

I once had a dream where I was in a building and there was an earthquake going on and then all of a sudden a tornado comes around and I start floating in the air and then I always wind up okay.

There you go. You always wind up okay when you stay in the proper state. It doesn't matter what happens. It only matters what you do with what happens. It only matters, literally matters, what state of energy you're in. That's what creates matter, right? Stay in your excitement. That's what creates the matter you experience physical reality to be.

How do you live within your excitement and not live within fear-based thoughts when the 3D world provides you with very scary scenarios?

Do you understand that the 3D world is not real?

Yes, I do. Are you sure?

But I'm still living in this reality right now.

Are you? It feels like I am.

So you believe you are?

I guess I choose to.

Thank you. So can you understand that just because you might see other realities that people choose for themselves, just because you can observe it, that doesn't mean you're in it. It just means you're looking through a glass wall at it. So you can see it.

Sorry.

There is nothing to apologize for. Trust your synchronicity.

What did that mean for you?

Not much. Come on, use your imagination. What were you talking about before that? Let me finish. Just because you can see it doesn't mean you're in the same reality. It's like looking through a glass wall. So even though you can see what's going on that you don't prefer, it doesn't mean it has the ability to reach you and affect you, right?

I've been trying my best to practice controlling my thoughts.

It's not about controlling your thoughts. It's about letting them happen and being okay with that because you know that whatever comes up, you can deal with it in a way that will give you a benefit. It's not about suppression or control. It's about surrendering because surrendering is not giving up control. Surrendering is surrendering to the control that's already built into you.

It's very interesting you're saying that. I recently got my Akashic records read.

Are they vinyl, your Akashic records? Are they a record? Akashic records is an old-fashioned way of understanding that everything and every single bit of information exists right here, right now, and is always accessible to anyone on whatever frequency is representative of the information that they seek. It's not actually a different place unto itself. It is right here, right now.

I thought it was a direct communication to your spirit guides. Is that not true?

It can be used that way, but again, that's just a permission slip way of defining or describing it. It's just a way that makes sense to your space-time sensibility. Everything exists right here in an absolutely dimensionless point with no space to it at all. And right now in an absolutely timeless moment with no time to it at all, but because of the way that you filter your consciousness, you create this illusion called space and time so that you can experience yourself through process in this particular way to discover new perspectives of yourself that you otherwise might not experience. So however you frame it, whatever definition you give it is just a definition. It's just a way of experiencing it. It's not necessarily a description of the underlying mechanism that creates it.

It's very important in this day and age to understand the great difference between a definition of an experience and a definition of the causal mechanism of the experience, which might be very different. Very different. For example, the example we have often given is the idea of telepathy or what we refer to as telempathy. Because the idea is you do not read someone else's mind. That's the old-fashioned outdated medieval definition because that's the experience in the way it seems to be happening. So people say, "Oh, I'm reading your mind. That's how it feels." But that's not a description of the underlying mechanism. The underlying mechanism is that when people are operating on a similar wavelength, when they're in harmonic resonance at a certain frequency level with each other, they have the same thoughts at the same time because that's what that frequency level generates. Therefore, you're not reading their mind. You're reading your own mind, but you're having the same thoughts that they're having simultaneously. That's why people who are in love with one another often know exactly what each other is thinking, finish each other's sentences, and hardly have to say a word to know exactly what's going on because they're on a similar wavelength. That's the mechanism. But we understand that when you have the experience from your physical space-time perspective, it feels like you're reading someone else's mind. But that's not an accurate description for the mechanism that causes it.

Very interesting. Yes, that will do for now. All right. Thank you.

**PERSONAL GUIDANCE AND INTERFERENCE**

Thank you for being here. I am not there, but thank you for the sentiment.

Well, please tell me what my spirit guides are trying to tell me so I can connect with my family. Which family? Physical or non-physical? Both.

Are you acting on your passion every moment that you can with no insistence on the outcome and remaining in a positive state no matter what happens?

No, because I have been interfered with.

Interfered with by whom?

I can't tell you.

Sure you can. The answer is yourself. You can only interfere with yourself. No one else can interfere with you. Remember what I just said about telepathy. You have to agree to match someone's frequency in order to experience what they're suggesting you experience. So someone who may have an intention of interference is simply getting you to believe you can be interfered with. So you're creating the interference in your reality. You're doing it.

How do I block them?

You don't block them. You change your frequency. You don't need to block them. They can't affect you. You have to understand the physics of this. You are affecting yourself because you're agreeing with them that they can affect you. So stop agreeing with them that they can affect you and then you will not feel affected. It's that simple. You just continue to believe that they can interfere with you. Why? How do you benefit from believing that?

There is no benefit.

But it's more complicated than that.

Nope. It's not. Now, you don't have to believe us, but we're telling you how it works. So that's up to you. And the idea that it seems more complicated than that is simply one of those fear-based beliefs because there is no such thing as an inherently difficult situation, only the belief that it is. And it's the belief that it's difficult that makes it seem more complicated than it is. It's just a belief. It's not a fact. It's just a perspective. And perspectives can be changed. Beliefs can be changed. That's all there is to it. So if you want to keep believing that it's more difficult than that, that's up to you. But we're telling you it doesn't have to be.

So will that do or is there something else?

Well, what do you see for my future?

What do you see for your future?

A place far, far away from here.

Which would be where?

I can't tell you because you wouldn't understand.

Sure I would.

It's far, far, far away from here.

Are you talking about another dimension or are you talking about something on Earth?

Not on Earth. All right.

So why wouldn't I understand the idea of another dimension?

No, I'm not saying that. What are you saying? I'm just asking you what you see from... Do you understand right now that you are not being clear in your own self-communication? You're being mysterious. You're hiding things. You think others won't understand you. You're isolating yourself. And that's why you feel the way you do.

I'm isolating myself because some have made me feel that I...

No one has made you feel anything. You have chosen to feel that way because you choose to believe they can make you feel that way. You're not getting how this works. You are this close to freedom, but you're refusing to understand the mechanism.

Have you ever heard the phrase, "We go back, we go forward"?

So how far back do you think I go?

Far back. You're eternal. You're infinite. Time is an illusion. You live in the moment. You exist now.

Well, can I say one thing? I work as an environmentalist and I'm concerned for what I see going on on the planet.

Then do something about it.

I do. I work online to wake others up.

But you're not working with a clear heart. You're not working from a positive place. You're working from a place of fear. How was that helpful to the environment?

Oh, I'm sorry that you see it that way, but it's not that way. You're the one that sees it that way. Listen to yourself. You're on the verge of tears right now. You're saying that people interfere with you. You're not approaching this from a positive point of view. You're not approaching it from an indestructible knowledge of your true self. You're approaching it as a fragile being that can be interfered with. That's not helpful to the environment. You have to know that what you perceive as beneficial to the environment is something that you can achieve. You have to know that and move forward as if you know that, not tiptoe through this as if you can be bushwhacked or shanghaied or ambushed. That's not the proper energy to be helpful.

Okay. Thank you.

You're welcome.

**DREAMS, VISUALIZATION, AND HYBRIDIZATION**

Hello and to you. Good day. Good to you. Going back to the questions about dreams. I've been experiencing very vivid dreams most of my life. Yes. Very picturesque, very much details and I remember it. All right. How exciting. I know. I love it. I think that's great. Recently, I would say probably in the past couple years, I've been experiencing very similar dreams, but there's always one particular call it psychic element, person, creature. I'm not really sure. Whereas everything is clear, it's always very cloudy, very foggy. I feel connected to it. I feel a relationship with this particular creature, but I'm never able to visualize it. It will slowly let me see some parts of it, but I can never get a clear image.

And what makes you think there's something wrong with that process?

Well, I guess I don't think there's something wrong per se, but I'm just curious to maybe know. Is it am I holding myself back in the understanding of it?

No. You're being given as much as is appropriate to give to you, as much as you need to know at any given moment. It'll keep going. It'll keep expanding. It'll get clearer. You have to trust the timing. That's all.

Okay. Yes. Perfect. Makes sense.

Anything else?

Yeah, sure. As far as it kind of sparked my interest when you started talking about the Mayans and previous Maya. One of the questions I have is back in Italy, one of the major populations that is extinct now was the Etruscans. Yes. And in some of the records that we have they do indicate interactions with extraterrestrials. Yes. From time to time they had them. So my question is were they just exposed to extraterrestrials or did they have any connections with it? Are they involved?

All have connections. But yes, in terms of your classic idea of interactions in physical reality, now and then they experienced interactions and contact with different forms of extraterrestrials.

My next question is before we fall asleep, can we ask to meet or connect with the energy of our prior past lives? In other words, are there... they're not prior, they exist right now. So of course you can connect. Everything exists right now. There's no such thing as the past. There's no such thing as the future. That's illusion. What you call past and future are simply different parallel realities that you consider to be the past or the future from your particular space-time perspective. But they all exist right now. That's why you can connect to them. If they actually were in the past, you'd never be able to do so.

Understood. And so that would tie in also with family members or friends that might have passed the veil, whomever.

Got it. Perfect.

And then my next question is if the goal is to raise or increase our vibration, will there ever come a time in this life in which we can master the tuning of our frequencies much like we would change a radio dial?

Yes. And many people on your planet can already do so. You already have certain kinds of teachers and masters who have that kind of control, do you not? Shamans and so on and so forth. So yes, of course, the potential exists within all of you. And the secret is you're all doing it all the time. It's not that you have to learn to do it. You have to learn to become more aware of the fact that you're already doing it. That's the secret. Because you're shifting billions of times per second through billions of parallel realities per second. So you're already changing completely moment to moment to moment to moment. All you have to do is let your mind catch up to the fact that that's already going on and the world will explode before you into a magical experience. Understood. Does that help?

Yep, it does. Thank you.

**FINDING A FATHER**

Hello. And to you, good day. Thank you. I'd like your advice.

Oh, all right. The doctor is in. Good. I grew up not knowing who my parents were. Oh, all right. And I've recently found my mother. Yes. I'd like to find my father. Go right ahead. I'd like to know how to go about doing that.

Check the records of certain family organizations in your area called Wisconsin. See what happens. See where that leads you.

Okay. I'll do that. Anything else? That's it. All right. Thank you. Happy hunting.

Thank you.

**NIGHTMARES, ABDUCTION, AND THE HYBRID AGENDA**

Thank you for having me this evening. All right. And to you good day. Thank you. With having to do with dreams. For as long as I can remember, I'll wake up just really scared. Sometimes I'll be screaming or hyperventilating or... How exciting for you. Just crying. Crying very scared.

And do you feel out of control?

Yes. And I won't even be able to remember at all what I've dreamt about.

Do you understand the idea of what we have termed the hybridization agenda? Not really. Do you understand the term alien abduction? Yes. You're part of it.

Can you explain more to me like in what aspect?

Well, you have agreed on a certain level of spirituality to participate in the evolutionary program of the Earth where beings from a parallel reality that you call the grays will usually take people such as yourself aboard their ships and extract DNA material, genetic material to create a hybrid species that will allow their particular culture to continue because they pretty much destroyed their own culture and need viable human DNA to continue their society. They have created many forms of hybrids. You are part of that program in terms of donating your particular genetic material to the creation of many different forms of hybrid beings. But the idea is that this has been going on for quite some time, but you've never really been given the tools to understand that from another level. You made an agreement to do this. And so anytime that these beings come and take you from where you are aboard their ships or shift you into a different reality, you feel out of control because you don't really know what's going on or your physical mind is simply in the dark. But there's really nothing to be afraid of. You can actually ask for more awareness of what is going on so that you can have these experiences with more consciousness and on your own terms.

That actually reminded me of I was at the Contact in the Desert in Joshua Tree. Yes. And you had mentioned that because of the higher frequency levels that we might feel afraid. Yes. And I actually right around the time I believe it was like 12 or 1:00 that you had said that to expect something, I became very afraid, just terrified, the most afraid I've ever been in my life. I just wanted to leave. I told my boyfriend like forget our stuff. Just leave our stuff. We have to go. Yes.

And this is one of the reasons why we don't have open contact with all of you yet because the idea is as follows. Now, certain beings this doesn't happen with, especially doesn't really happen with the grays exactly although there's a form of it. Remember that your body has a form of its own consciousness. And one of the things that is very strong in the human body is the idea of a survival mechanism, the fight-or-flight mechanism, when it senses something that may in appearance be something that can threaten your survival. The energy of many extraterrestrial beings including our own is on a much, much higher frequency than yours because many of you are compartmentalized, fragmented within your consciousness. You're not coherent. You're not integrated. So your frequency is relatively low compared to ours. When you believe or feel the greater field of energy that we possess coming into contact with your fragmented field, it tends to force certain things to the surface that you haven't integrated within yourself yet. And that can cause a fear, fight-or-flight reaction, a survival mode reaction in your body that makes you run.

Yeah. And it was strange. We actually went just like right down the street like maybe not even a mile away from the actual campsite we were at and then I felt much better and it sounds strange but I felt like I had a positive experience. I got a lot of information.

You did, especially knowing that that energy showed you that you're still unconsciously holding on to certain ideas and definitions and beliefs that don't allow you to fully release and be yourself and be free to have the experience in a more positive way. So it's about examining the idea of what you're really afraid of and letting those things go so that you can be more of yourself and raise your frequency. Know that you're in control of this. Know that you made an agreement and that you can again participate in this on your own terms with more conscious control and awareness. But that process is going to take as long as you're willing to allow it to take. Yet again, you are willing to see that you have learned something. So that's a step in the positive direction.

Okay. Another thing, I used to be very confident in myself. You're still confident. It's just that you're now confident about your lack of confidence. I'm serious. You cannot be not confident. That's not possible. You're always confident about something. It's just that now your belief systems are revealing themselves to show you that one of the things you are most confident about is that you lack confidence. But you're confident about that. So you don't lack confidence. There's the paradox for you to play with. It's about learning to be confident in what you prefer. You don't have to learn to be confident. You're already confident. Just be confident in what you prefer to be confident about instead of what you don't prefer to be confident about, such as lacking confidence, which is not possible. There's no such thing as a lack of confidence. There's no such thing as a lack of trust. There's no such thing as a lack of control. Because when you experience being out of control, you're controlling that. When you feel like you don't trust, you trust that to be true.

Thank you. And then started to go back about Joshua Tree and the grays. I had an idea about the grays that just kind of came to me at one point that in a parallel reality or what we would call the future, it was us, like specifically our planet, that we wanted to travel or whatever and that's why and we became kind of like biomechanical or like we did something to ourselves. On a parallel Earth, the advancements disconnected them in a mental way from their nature and they destroyed their environment in the same similar way that you are destroying yours. They had to mutate themselves from human into gray in order to survive, but still realized they were going to die out if they didn't find a source of viable human DNA to continue their civilization by creating hybrids. So they use their advanced technology to tunnel through parallel realities such as yours to find DNA they could use to create hybrid beings like ourselves and others so that they could not only continue their particular society but so that we could also recognize the same patterns in your society and share this information with you so you don't have to walk down the same destructive path.

Thank you.

I don't know if it's related to that or the fact that you said that I've been abducted. Yes. But sometimes that's just a word that a lot of you use. You have simply been invited to participate. I understand. But there's been circumstances where my boyfriend and I and even at first he was like, you know, where I felt like I've been being watched and even where he doesn't necessarily believe me, he's even seen things that have caused him to believe me. Yes. And so that is... Yes. All right. So now you know that's happening. So you can have more conscious awareness and more conscious control of your participation in it if you're willing to. But there's nothing to be afraid of.

And then this is the last thing. After Joshua Tree for about 2 weeks after that, late at night I would hear a very... I can't describe it any other way than an alien noise. It's like almost what you would expect to hear from a sci-fi movie, the noise that they play. I would hear that and I would see like a blue light, a blue light or like a light that's not coming from any source.

Yes. Well, it is coming from a source. It's just that it's coming from an interdimensional source. At one point I had woken up. Yes. And when I awoke, the best way I can describe it is like the Agent Orange thing where they have somebody's eyes pried open and they show all these pictures like... Yes. Yes. And that's kind of what I experienced, like just a bunch of pictures flashing in my head.

You have been shown many pictures telepathically about the possibility of your world going down the same path as the grays. And it ended on a silhouette of a very tall thin man. But what it was, it was black and the man was the light.

Yes, but you were looking at the mantis. So it's a mantis. What people on your planet refer to as the mantis beings are the ones in charge of the hybridization agenda over the grays. They bear a resemblance to the preying mantis insect on your planet. So are basically very tall and thin. Now, do you understand that you have hybrid children?

Oh, I didn't before. I guess I do now that you've said that. Well, very good. But that's a story for another time for you. Right now, at this time, before you go to sleep, just take a few deep breaths and say, "All right, I'm ready to understand my relationship with you, my agreement with you from a more conscious perspective, so I may participate on my own terms more openly, more clearly." And see what happens. If you feel fear, that's all right. You can take it a step at a time and say, "All right, wait a minute. Let me get used to this and then see if it passes." They will cooperate and they will work with you if you are willing to open up. All right. And you can do it in whatever way works for you.

Now, one moment. What's your favorite scent?

Oh, man. Tea tree? Is that a guess? Well, I like essential oils. I like a lot of scents. I can think of like a favorite perfume I have. What would be the one that would allow you to feel calm?

Probably lavender.

All right. Then it would probably be helpful as a permission slip for you to have that scent prominent in your room when you go to sleep when you're asking for more conscious participation. So that you will be more at ease knowing that you are creating with the lavender scent the environment that you prefer in which that exchange and encounter can occur. So you're bringing something to the party. You understand? You're not arriving empty-handed and going, "Oh no, I don't know what to do." Bring something to the party. It will help.

Okay. I know I said the last thing was last thing, but this an idea that I had on my own about why I was so fearful in my dream was about visiting alternate realities or alternate dimensions, and I thought like even one time I woke up and I had said without even realizing what I was saying, "Hold on, I have to finish coming back into this reality because people were talking to me."

Yes. Yes. Yes. So because you are shifted to other realities in many of those encounters.

Oh, okay. Wow. All right. So don't worry, you won't get stuck. It's all right. You'll find your way back no matter what.

Okay. Thank you.

You're welcome.

**VIEWER QUESTIONS - DREAMS, ASTRAL REALMS, AND LEVITATION**

Hello, Tado. Hello, Nania. Someone just asked me a question here. So I think it's time for me to ask you stream questions. All right. So the first question has to do with a person's dreaming. In fact, there's a lot of questions about dreams. So I'll share some of those with you. I often go into a dream space that feels like a lower astral gray ghetto-like environment.

Like I said, there is a lower lower astral realm that's very close to physical reality that can have a little bit of that feeling to it, which is why a lot of the idea of beings that are acting as quote unquote "ghosts" or hauntings occupy that level. It is somewhat colorless. Yes. Because it's kind of a limbo state where they sometimes don't even know that they're dead. Don't know what to do. Don't know where to go. Maybe caught up in certain belief systems that are negative, maybe working certain things out on that state. So yes, it does have kind of a gray pallor to it from time to time.

And he says that he has a feeling of a mission to get to a specific place to deliver something or find someone. Yes. And then he wakes up feeling quite heavy from these dreams. Yes. How is this different than the lower astral creation space you mentioned earlier?

Well, as I said, it's not different, but the idea is that you may be searching for a friend who may be a little bit lost in that particular realm, attempting to help them, but because you're taking on some of that vibration, and it's so close to the physical reality, when you reconnect with physical reality, it can be like sort of bringing back extra energy that converts into mass sort of more densely, and that's why you feel heavy for a while until you let it go back to the lower astral.

Thank you. Yes. And then this one is: when you're in deep meditation, can you experience dream world or is it... you can have glimpses of it. Yes. Is it the same thing as lucid dreaming?

It can be but not always.

What's the difference between astral projection and lucid dreaming?

Well, astral projection can be the result of lucid dreaming, which is simply another way of saying you understand that you're creating the dream. You're awake in the dream and therefore can do what you wish. You can control what's going on. You can realize that you might be classically speaking out of your body and therefore begin an astral journey. So lucid dreaming can be a step towards allowing you to have an experience of astral projection.

And do people visit other lifetimes in their dreams?

Oh, absolutely. But again, remember all lives exist simultaneously. But yes, you can do that. You can have that experience. Absolutely.

What about if someone's dreaming about tsunamis? What about it? Does that mean it's a prediction of the future?

Not necessarily. Remember, there's no such thing. There's only a sensing of the energy that exists at the moment the prediction is made. But they may be sensing a reality with a high degree of probability behind it. Or they may be sensing a reality that is representative of a fear they may have from the physical level. And by sensing that and seeing what the probability is, then it's possible they may also engineer to change that particular outcome. So it just depends on what they do with that information. And isn't water also sort of a symbol of emotionality? It can be. So again, you have to take this on a person-by-person basis. You can't overgeneralize.

So the key is to pay attention to what's relevant for you as a person. Like maybe it is the idea of being overwhelmed by emotionality. It could be or it could be a prediction of the future that doesn't exist. It could be. You have to make that determination based on what it is you learn about yourself from that dream experience and how honest you are about digging into what you believe to be true about yourself. So sometimes it's a good idea to when you wake up in the morning to just stay with the dream. Absolutely. Give yourself that moment. Give yourself a few moments. Let it come back. Explore it. Find out what it means to you. Find out how it makes you feel about yourself. Find out that you might learn something about yourself by having had that experience.

The heaviness that I think other people also have said that they feel like sometimes you can wake up in the morning and you feel so heavy... and sometimes that's the difference between the idea of physical reality and the idea of being non-physical. Physical reality can feel heavy by comparison to being in the astral form because it is a denser vibration. So the heaviness can come from that too.

So is it easier to learn in the dream world?

Depends. One person was saying they would really learn to be able to levitate things and that they've been pretty successful at it in the dream world. All right. Well, again remember the key to levitation in physical reality is to begin with lightening up. I think that message was received.

There is in many forms of art on your planet, since it comes through the imagination from the higher mind, much information that answers a lot of these questions. And as we have said previously and especially with regard to that particular question, you have a particular film on your planet that you know as The Matrix, and in The Matrix there is one particular line that answers that question definitively. It goes even though the question is about levitation also to the idea of making material objects seem to be manipulated by your mind, spoon bending. And in that movie the answer is clear. The only way you can do it is to understand there is no spoon, that it's just a projection of your consciousness. So the idea of an object being located on the ground and then the idea of that object being located above the ground is just a matter of understanding there is no object. And therefore the idea of whether it's here or there or disappears from there and reappears there or floats above the ground is all about understanding that you are creating the concept of physical space and time and that it's all about resonance and that there's a different resonance here than there is here. So when you begin to understand that you're just changing the frequency of something to exist in a different frame of reference within a projection of consciousness that you're creating anyway that isn't real unto itself, then levitation will be something that's normal and natural because you're just redefining its location in space and time.

Is your ability to be able to jump from reality to reality in such a drastic way dependent on relevance in terms of the theme you're exploring? Of course, it's always dependent upon whether that experience is relevant for you. So that's why we're not all just popping in and out. Well, you are popping in and out, but that's why not all of you have to realize it to the same degree, right? Because yes, it has to do with relevance. Some things like that may sound exciting, but they simply may not be relevant for your life theme. At least not at this point. If they are relevant and you are being yourself as best as you can be, then nothing will stop you from having the experience because things will naturally unfold in that direction. They will take you there. Remember, your current knows where you need to go. So if you just live your life and follow your passion to the best you can, following the formula, then if the idea of levitating something is relevant for you, nothing will stop it from happening. The only thing that stops appointments you've made and agreements you've made is spending your time and energy worrying that the appointments and the agreements won't happen. So don't do that.

So when a person has a desire to do something that's well outside of what most human beings will do in this reality, again it goes back to the idea of why does your passion come in that form. Never assume that the idea of the form it comes in has to come to fruition to give you the lesson you need. If it is going to come in that form, it will come. But never insist that it must. Otherwise, you're missing the point of why it came to you because it may have come to you in that form for a completely different reason. Going back full circle even to the idea that suddenly being excited about levitating or levitating something may simply be synchronicity's way of actually telling you to lighten up. And it may be no more mysterious than that.

So it really is so much about reading the messages that are sent to you by yourself and being able to respond to them in a way that shows you comprehend what is being given to you. And one of the easiest ways to do that is to let go of the idea that you know what it is the outcome should be. Let go of the ego's wants and open your arms to what you need. What you need will always come and will always fulfill you if you let it. It will always fulfill you. Always.

So does that help?

Yes.

And then a person once they've been talking about having dreams with you. So sometimes it will be their own higher mind taking on the form of us because they're familiar with us and it makes it easier for them to have a conversation thinking that it's us. We are always happy to be used as a simulacrum. This is one of the reasons why we have these conversations. So that you get familiar with our vibration and can use this as a permission slip. So that it's more easy for you in your belief system to talk to your higher mind thinking that you're talking to us. We're sneaky that way.

This person said, "After a dream of shaking Bashar's hand last year, I had a dream and saw rainbow DNA across the sky in my backyard next to a metallic round spaceship." What does this mean?

It means you saw an energy field that was generated by a portal that you had the senses to perceive and that you also saw a ship that was there all the time but was heretofore invisible to your senses until you upgraded them, and that the DNA symbol shows your connection to the beings on the ship.

Here's another one where someone had a dream where I was attending your upcoming event about 2020 and you came up to my seat and told me it was very important that I have an energetic release in 2020. Was that really you in that particular case?

It was a part of us. Not all of us but a part of us.

If we avoid dealing with trauma that happens in childhood, does that hold us back from having contact or more contact or the kind of contact that it ends up... it could leading to it could because what you're simply saying is you're avoiding looking at the idea of fear-based belief systems that you have bought into. So it could.

And then finally, many of us here are also artists and would love to see your sculptures on Essassani. Could you plan with some mass exposition to see your artworks, taking us all on a mass ride to your planet in the dream state?

Yes, that can be done and from time to time actually has already been done with some individuals. At the same time, it can be that at some point in the years to come, representations of some of the sculptures can be at least in some form recreated on your planet so that you at least have an idea of what it is we're creating on ours.

That sounds wonderful. Yes.

**HOLOTOPE MEDITATION**

So at this time, enjoy a short break. We will resume this transmission to crystallize in the idea of your ability to more consciously visit the dream world with your holotope experience as the transmission continues.

And I say we'll continue this transmission by asking each and every one of you to become very relaxed in your chairs. Start breathing gently, deeply, easily. Let go of the cares of the day. Let them melt away. You are here and you are now and there is nowhere else to be.

And as you continue to allow yourself to relax and continue to breathe in and out, allow your lights to begin to play and your music to rise. And observe the holotope before you as a doorway, as a portal to enter the dream world tonight of your time.

As you may choose to drift off to sleep when you are at home, remember this image of the holotope. The concentric rings and the connecting lines, the web connecting physical to astral realities. A door spiraling open. A portal. An opening in the very thin veil between the physical and non-physical dreams. All taking place within your consciousness.

Use this image. See it suspended before you in the air before you go to sleep this night and allow it to function as a door, as a gate. See the play of lights upon it. Let them infuse themselves into the neural net of your brain so that you may rewire yourself to be more receptive of the higher frequency information and energy that can be given to you from the astral realms of spirit.

Hear the vibrational resonance of the music to take home with you this night that is reminiscent of a journey through space and time and seeing through the veil. Seeing through the illusion, the illusion of solidity of physical reality and see it for what it is: but a projection, an apparition of your consciousness as it opens up and allows the portal to truly become a gate, a door, a window between two worlds so that they may be blended into one experience for you, so that you may cross effortlessly from one to another as you drift off.

And let the physical mind relax this night and take on the mantle of your spirit, of your higher mind and your astral body. To go and to play, to greet and to meet, to create with others of like mind, of like vibration, pastures, villages, towns, cities, planets, whatever you in that dream world to create whatever is representative to you of the image that you will retain upon awakening in the morning that will allow you to use that image as a symbol that will be with you all day to carry with you the experience of the adventure, of the journey that you had in the astral realm in the dream world. For it is its own world. It is its own place. It is its own level, its own resonance, its own frequency, its own domain, its own realm of experience and being, in which many things can happen, in which imagination is the key, in which thought is instantaneously manifest.

Take that symbol with you. No matter what it is you create, know that it will be there upon awakening. As you lie there and recall it, let it come back. Do not be in a hurry to rise. Just breathe in your beds. Just relax and let it come. And that symbol will be there for you all day. And if you wish to change that the next night, you may. For the adventures will evolve and the journey will expand in the dream world. And the more adventures you partake of, and the more of those beings you interact with in that realm, the more the experiences will begin to blend and leak into the physical dream. And the more you will begin to feel less difference between the two worlds. So that your physical life can become more of a dream that you can live, and the dream world will become more of a reality to you.

And with every breath you will absorb the atmosphere of both realms, both domains, both worlds. You will be breathing here and breathing there, but an ethereal breath without the physical lungs, an ethereal intake of energy, an ethereal intake of realization and information of knowledge and experience. And as you breathe in the physical world, you will know that with every breath in, it will tap into and touch into those experiences in the dream world. And as you exhale, you will exhale more of that etheric atmosphere into the physical dream so that it becomes more flexible in space and time, so that you may be freed. Free to know that it is your reality. Free to know that it is up to you, up to your beliefs, up to your dreams, and that by taking action upon them, you give to the world the opportunity and the option to see through you a living example of the blending of the physical and astral realities, of the template level by which you can begin to design the reality you prefer. But knowing that as you do so and as you experience the idea of the world around you, the dream around you to be changing, you know that it is not the world you were on that changed, for it never is. For that world remains inviolate. But it is that you in changing yourself, in raising your frequency, in living as the dream and bringing the dream world with you, that you shift to another already existing version of Earth that is already more representative and more reflective of the change you have made within yourself. For again, you never change the world you're on. You take yourself to a new version of Earth that is more representative of the dream you are willing to live.

For action is the key. And bit by bit, the change within you will be reflected in the dream around you. For that dream is within. And the surrounding reality is not but a reflection in a mirror. A projection within your consciousness. A reflection of self-awareness. A dream within a dream within a dream. A dream of all that is, in all that is, of all that is, by all that is. For you are all that is dreaming itself into being through all of you, through the dreams that you are to it. But the dreams by it and to it are just as real and conscious as it, as all that is. For you are the stuff of dreams. And you are the dream that is aware of itself and so lucid in its own understanding of its awareness.

See the gateway. See the portal this night in the air before you and let it open to a world that expands your understanding of the dream that you are dreaming and living right now. For you are the dream and are in the dream and are of the dream and are being dreamed by the dream into being.

Let the journey begin within you. And you shall see the path unfold before you. And the doorways opening one after another to all the different levels, all the different realms that are willing to communicate with you and send you the information of light, love, and peace. So that you may experience that peace, light and love within your very soul, within your being, within your heart, within your mind, within your spirit, within your essence, and in every facet of your existence that is never beginning and never ending. It just is. The dream just is. It never began and it never ends. It is always now.

Open that portal. Open that doorway. Open that gate and expand your awareness of the dream that you are.

Breathe in deeply now and let it out and make this your own dream. Breathe in now deeply and let it out and allow this to be your dream. Breathe in deeply and hold it and hold it and hold it and feel the infinite potential and possibilities within the breath you now release as you bring through the etheric atmosphere of the astral realm in its own vibration as it relates to the physical dream. So that both may be blending more and more. So that you may walk in that dream with eyes wide open, awake to your true nature. So that you may be more and more of who you truly are as the dream of all that is.

Allow yourself to float freely now in the dream state. And this night of your time and every night that you so desire, open that portal more and more. Journey more and more between the worlds and allow them to blend in ways that are relevant for you. Allow the magic to occur. Allow time and space to dissolve. Allow. Allow. Allow.

Float freely now as your music dims and your lights pale. Float freely in the depth of existence. Nurtured by eternity and unconditionally loved by all that is, the dream within the dream within the dream.

Rest and relax and breathe easily. And know that this night of your time will begin a new journey between different dreams, charting a course and creating a map for yourselves so that you may know what was previously uncharted territory as it unfolds before you with new awareness, new knowingness, new experiences, new life, new love and new light to show you the way, your way.

Relax now in that beautiful endless void that is filled to the brim with existence itself, with the breath of life. And every breath you take shall be another dream, another step along the path of who you truly are.

