---
title: "Fairy tales for grown-ups"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2020-05-09
icon: Bashar
weight: 650
showdate: true
---


**Bashar:** A spinning wheel creates the illusion of a Spoke freezing in place to indicate what it is that you are focusing on at that moment—whether it be a representation of your passion or a representation of a belief system that might be required for you to look at. 

But in this transmission, even though it will involve spinning wheels as a symbol, this will be quite different because what we are doing here is examining two particular fairy tales in your culture: *Sleeping Beauty* and *Rumpelstiltskin*. Both contain the symbol of a spinning wheel for different reasons and different purposes.

The idea of this particular transmission is to help guide you in your discernment in stories, in fairy tales, and the stories you tell yourself, to be able to tell the difference between what is really a positive belief system and a negative belief system. Many of you may have an idea of what the fairy tales *Sleeping Beauty* and *Rumpelstiltskin* represent, and what elements within them may be positive and/or negative, but you may be surprised to find that there may be some things that are the opposite of what you may think.

So before we dive into the idea of being able to tell the difference between the positive and negative belief systems that these fairy tales represent, let us give you a very brief recap so that each of you can remember, because it may be a while since you've heard them, what these fairy tale stories are actually all about.

In *Sleeping Beauty*, you have the idea of a great feast that was arranged because of the birth of the princess to the king and queen. But there was only so much room at the table for all the guests that they chose to invite, some of which were the fairies of the land. Because there was one fairy that they didn't necessarily feel had the best of intentions or the best of energy, they chose to not invite that particular fairy. But that particular fairy heard about the feast nevertheless and showed up at a point where many of the other fairies had already bestowed their magical gifts upon the princess, except for one. Upon her arrival, this fairy, being very offended at not being invited, chose to put a curse upon the princess and said that on her 16th birthday she would prick her finger on the needle of a spinning wheel and die.

Everyone was very distraught, of course. After that fairy left, the final fairy who had not yet bestowed her gift upon the princess could only bestow just enough to change the curse to the point where the princess would not die but would simply fall asleep until such time as someone would come along and with a kiss awaken her. That is the basic gist of *Sleeping Beauty*.

*Rumpelstiltskin* is a little bit different. A poor man had a daughter, and it was time for this man to pay taxes. Not having the money, the poor man promised his daughter to the King instead, promising that she had the magical ability to spin straw into gold. Well, the king could not pass this up, and so he took the daughter to the castle and locked her in a room with straw and a spinning wheel and said, "If you will spin this straw into gold, you will gain your freedom and I will marry you."

Now the princess—in that sense, the girl, not yet a princess—was beside herself because she had no ability whatsoever to spin straw into gold. Nevertheless, at some point, the door creaked open and a little Elemental man named Rumpelstiltskin came into the room without revealing his name and said, "I can help you. I can spin this straw into gold, but what will you give me in return?" And so the princess had some jewelry; she handed it over. The little man accepted and got about spinning the straw into gold.

The next day when the king arrived, he was astonished to see a room full of gold instead of straw. But now the king got a little bit greedy and said, "All right, well I'm not going to free you yet, not going to marry you yet. I'm going to put you in another room with more straw that you will spin into gold." And so again the girl was distraught, but once again the little man showed up and said, "I will do this for you again, but what will you give me?" And again the girl only had at this point left her ring, which she gave to the little man, who then set about spinning the straw into gold.

Again the next day the King was astonished to find even more gold than before and, being a little bit greedy still, said, "All right, well you have to do this one more time to prove your worth. So I will now fill the room with straw which you will spin into gold." So again the girl was very distraught and the man showed up, but the girl said, "I have nothing left to give you." And so the little man thought about it and said, "You do, for when you marry the king you will bear a child, and it is the child that you will give to me." Being desperate, the girl agreed. And so the little man spun all of the straw in the room into gold.

The next day the king showed up and was absolutely amazed at a room full of gold, and on the spot freed the girl and promised that he would marry her. And so they did. As time went by, the girl had a child that she loved dearly. One day, once again, the little man showed up and said, "It is time to honor our agreement. You must give me your firstborn child." Now the girl had grown very, very fond of this child and did not want to do that. The little man insisted, "You must, it is our agreement." And so he said, "I will go away and come back, but at that time you must say goodbye to your child, for I will take it."

Now the girl thought about what to do, and thought and thought and thought. The little man had said before he left, "There is only one way that you can break this agreement, and that would be if you can guess my name." And so the girl thought and thought and thought of all the names she could think of and had many different servants go throughout the land to collect all the names she could think of. She looked at the list and thought, "None of these seem to be the kind of name that this little man would have, this Elemental being, this Elemental spirit. I am at a loss."

Until she thought, "I will have one servant go and find him and spy on him, and perhaps he will learn something." And so she sent her servant out into the woods. Eventually, the servant was able to track down the little man who was dancing in a glade and singing a song in which he revealed his name to be Rumpelstiltskin. And so he went back to the queen and said, "This is his name." And so when the little man showed up again he said, "Have you guessed my name?" And she said, "Is it this? And is it that?" Toying with him, for she knew his name. And he said, "No, no, you owe me the child." And finally she said, "Is it Rumpelstiltskin?" And in a fit of rage, the little man disappeared, for she had guessed his name and broken the vow, and was able to keep the child and live happily ever after.


### **Analysis: Victimhood vs. Self-Reliance**

**Bashar:**
Now, in these two stories, there are many different kinds of things that here and there may be positive and negative on their own. But if we examine the concept first of all of *Sleeping Beauty*: while it may seem to be a positive ending—a positive outcome, the prince comes along and kisses her, she awakes, and they live happily ever after—there are many different symbols in here that actually turn this story into something quite different.

First and foremost, the idea being that in the original Feast when the child was born, not inviting that particular fairy is symbolic and representative of the invalidation of a negative belief. And because the negative belief was invalidated, then in a sense it amplified and bounced back with the idea of the curse. Now the curse was mitigated by the final fairy into nothing more than a slumber, but this is simply indicative of the fact that you always have an indestructible core. No matter how many fear-based or negative beliefs that you may invalidate within you or give energy to, you will always have the ability to mitigate them, to soften them out by remembering that they are just beliefs and they have no real ultimate power until such time as you decide that they do.

And so when Sleeping Beauty found the spinning wheel—regardless of the fact that they had tried to destroy all the spinning wheels in the Kingdom, she found one hidden away—pricked her finger and fell into a long Slumber. And in fact, in the story, everyone in the Kingdom fell asleep for a hundred years, with no one aging while they slept, until such time as a hundred years later a prince came along, kissed her, woke her up, and she lived happily ever after.

However, the symbology here is the symbology of victimhood: succumbing to the idea that you have no power to be able to really defeat this other than the flow of creation and synchronicity. As we have said, [creation] slightly bends in the direction of positive energy rather than negative, because the balance point between positive and negative—the neutral balance point—still offers you the ability to choose. And if there is nothing else that you do, because the universe/creation then is slightly more positive than negative, you will simply start to drift toward the positive. And this is what has happened in this story: as she slumbered, there were no actions taken, nothing that could be done, until such time a hundred years later that the flow of creation and synchronicity finally attracted the prince who then allowed her to awake.

But you see, the real symbology here is that in a sense, Sleeping Beauty died and had to be awoken into a different plane of existence, into a different reality, the spirit realm, than to live happily ever after. So in a sense, the tale of *Sleeping Beauty*, while it may have bits and pieces that are positive and negative within it, overall is a tale of victimhood and the succumbing to the idea of needing to be rescued and not taking any actions in order to be able to rescue yourself, but only relying on nothing more than the flow of creation and synchronicity to pull you out of it, but not having lived that life at all and having to go on to another plane of existence in order to continue to experience the idea of your happiness.

Whereas *Rumpelstiltskin*, while having again what seems to be many negative aspects to it—the girl is sold off by her father, the girl is trapped in the castle, the girl is forced to do things she's not able to do, the girl is forced to give up things in order to transform in a way that will free her by relying on the little man, the elemental being, to spin the straw to Gold—nevertheless, even though she may have in some sense exhibited victimhood throughout the story to a certain degree, at a certain point she took charge. She ordered her servants to go find names; she ordered her servant to find the little man and find out his name.

In other words, what this represents is the identification of the fear-based belief. She was able to identify it literally by finding the little man's name. And in finding the name, in identifying the fear-based belief and bringing it into the light of her Consciousness, she was able to break free from that and let it go, and truly take the actions that were required to keep her child, to be the queen, to be free, and to truly live happily ever after by her own actions.

Therefore, the overall tale of *Rumpelstiltskin*, no matter how many negative elements it may have contained, is a positive outcome based on her ability to be self-reliant, self-activated, and actually identify and release the fear-based belief that had beset her up to that point.

So within these kinds of stories, and within the stories you may tell yourselves about who you are, what you believe to be true about yourselves in life, while sometimes you may think certain things represent a positive idea, they may actually represent a negative one in the sense of feeling like you must be rescued and you can't do it yourself—that is disempowerment. Whereas no matter how negative things may seem up to a certain point, the acceptance of your own power and the willingness to investigate those fear-based beliefs will always bring you the information you need to divest yourself of them and truly create by your own actions the freedom that you deserve in life, to claim your own true Birthright to be who you truly are.

So let yourself discern more clearly when you tell yourself stories about yourself which is truly positive and which is truly negative, so that you can always have the ability to be active in your self-investigation, to know yourself, become transparent to yourself, and free yourself with the truth of who you really are.

***

### **Q&A Session 1: Story Structure and Belief Systems**

**Participant 1:**
We thank you now for allowing us to share this particular perspective with you in fairy tales for grown-ups, and we ask in return: how may we continue to be of service to you? You may begin with your questions and discussions if you wish. Good day.

**User:**
Good day to you. Uh, thank you so much for the stories. Um, I'm currently fascinated by the idea of Mythology and symbolism and the stories we tell ourselves, so how synchronous of you. And to that point, one of the things that I realized even through the stories you've told us now and others is that being able to have a vocabulary of how to understand these stories is, I think, a part of this process. You know, we often see these stories at face value and not fully understand the underlying meaning or how we can draw meaning out of it in order to use it in a positive way. Absolutely. Do I mean... the person who comes to mind for me is Joseph Campbell and *The Hero with a Thousand Faces*, yes, which is the basic idea of story structure that is automatically built in to your psyche.

**Bashar:**
This is why it's so important to transmit information as often as possible in story structure, because story structure allows you to retain an understanding of the information being transmitted because it's built into your psyche. Story structure is not something that you invented; story structure is something you discovered within yourself. And when information is presented in story form according to the proper structure, it strikes all the correct chords, it resonates within you, and it remains with you for thousands of years. Which is why there are stories that have been around that long. But when it is missed, when that story structure is missed, when a component is overlooked, everyone knows the story doesn't quite feel right. It doesn't quite resonate, and therefore that information isn't retained as well as that which hits all the story structure Chords. It's a very important structure within your Consciousness.

**User:**
And I think to that point, I'm finding that when I research more—I guess I call them ancient stories, whether it's from indigenous tribes like the [Native Americans], the stories often resonate more because there's something about the structure or the wording or whatever it is that connects. Whereas a lot of the more Modern Day stories don't seem to; we've lost some of that Essence sometimes.

**Bashar:**
Yes, so this is an important template to use when transmitting information. Story structure is what allows you to retain over long periods of time the information the story seeks to impart to you.

**User:**
And then the other part of this is that the stories we tell ourselves... I think there needs to be a certain level of awareness that sometimes we're not even aware of the stories we're telling ourselves. Yes, and until we've discovered that, we can't change them.

**Bashar:**
That is correct. That's why we say it's important to investigate what any fear-based belief is actually saying to you. Because when you actually bring it into the light of your Consciousness—what the fear-based belief is actually telling you—you will see that it makes no sense. You will see that it is using story structure to get you to resonate to what it's saying. But you will also at the same time recognize, when you bring what it's saying into the light of your Consciousness, that a lot of the information it is transmitting using story structure is actually false. Okay? But you have to identify it. This was the point in the story of *Rumpelstiltskin*: you have to identify what the fear-based belief actually is saying to you, what it actually is, in order for you to realize that what it's telling you—even though it's using story structure to reinforce it—you have to really hear what it's saying so you can realize that what it's telling you is false about you.

**User:**
Uh, which has just reminded me of something that what I've discovered recently is that sometimes my emotions and my thoughts... my thoughts are getting in the way of me getting to the... um, what the belief is. Because the thoughts are creating a story, but that's what the belief does.

**Bashar:**
You see, belief comes first, and it generates emotions, thoughts, behaviors, and experiences in that order. And so what it's doing, because physical reality isn't real on its own—it actually has to be reinforced by a belief system, positive or negative, to allow you to perceive physical reality as if it's solid, as if it's really a place that you're in (which it's not, it's just a projection of Consciousness)—so the tools that beliefs use are the generation of emotion so it feels real what they're telling you, and thoughts so that you think about it and reinforce the reality and make it sound factual, and behaviors so that when you then behave as you feel and think, you get the reflective experience back that reinforces the idea of what the belief system, whether positive or negative, is actually telling you.

That's why you have to be able to see and discern clearly what the belief is telling you in order to change the belief. Because all beliefs have to use the emotions, thoughts, and behaviors and experiences to reinforce themselves in order to make it seem as if you're actually in a real reality, which you're not.

**User:**
Thank you. Um, does that help?

**Bashar:**
It does help a lot. Thank you. Yes, the belief is the blueprint of your reality experience. The emotions are the builders. The thoughts are the building materials. The behaviors are the way in which the builders assemble the reality. And of course, the experience is the reflection of living in that building that they built. But if there's something off-kilter, you always have to trace that back to the blueprint to see what is out of alignment in the blueprint, and then change that so that the builders and the building materials and the style of building are all in alignment with the kind of house that you prefer to live in as an experience. Always go back to the blueprint. Always go back to the belief. When you have experiences you don't prefer, behaviors you don't prefer, thoughts you don't prefer, emotions you don't prefer—own them, because you're choosing to create them by buying into a certain belief. But you can also know that you can trace them all back to something you must believe is true in order to be having those emotions, those thoughts, and those behaviors and that experience. Because they don't exist in a vacuum on their own; there has to be something you believe to be true first before you can feel, think, or behave in any way, shape, or form, or have any kind of a reflective experience. Make sense?

**User:**
Yes. Does that help?

**Bashar:**
It does. All right, anything else?

***

### **Q&A Session 2: Frequencies, Resonance, and Technology**

**User:**
Like to talk a little bit about frequencies and resonance, and I think some of the things you've already mentioned might also fit in as we go. Um, so you mentioned in a transmission uh recently that this idea of the 11th harmonic and how it could break down viruses or cancer cells or bacterias. Yes. Um, and initially I... so I did some research, I found these amazing videos where I saw this happening. But I thought that the idea of an 11th harmonic seemed like a strange relationship. And so I wondered, is there something there to do with the golden ratio to the power of five? Or am I missing the mark completely?

**Bashar:**
No, you are sort of On Target. There's a little bit more that needs to be discovered by you to understand all the nuances of it, but you're generally going in the right direction. Okay.

**User:**
Um, because from what I'm understanding about this is it's about the relationship between one frequency and another and the Resonance of those frequencies. Yes. Okay. So then based on that as well, following along this research, it turned out that the coronavirus in general seemed to be about 300,000 Hertz was what was the 11th harmonic frequency. Um, and I remember you mentioning that people have a signature frequency between 150,000 and 300,000. Is that correct?

**Bashar:**
It's a little bit different what we're referring to than what you're discovering in your reality, though there are connections between it. But the kind of frequency resonance signatures that we give to many of you are a kind of thing that your science doesn't know about yet. Okay.

**User:**
So I'm mixing up two ideas there that I shouldn't be connecting. Yes. Okay. Um, well then on that note, um, because I know that you've mentioned as well that uh the Essassani people are experiencing time I think 10 times faster than we are. Yes. And I would think then also it means that the frequencies that you're experiencing or resonating at are 10 times higher.

**Bashar:**
And I wondered if not exactly in the way... again, we give you those frequencies, but yes. Remember, in general, we are saying that 333,000 cycles per second of the kind of frequency, of the kind of energy we're talking about, is the borderline between physical and non-physical reality. This is a different scale of things that we're talking about here. Okay.

**User:**
So so what I should be exploring or researching is the kind of frequencies... if I want to better understand what I'm looking at, I need to better understand that aspect of it. Yes.

**Bashar:**
And basically, you're simply talking about whatever your equipment is capable of doing in terms of identifying the frequency of a particular thing, like a virus. All you really have to do is go 11 times higher, okay, in order to counteract the idea. Because you're pushing it up, in a sense. This principle is the same in both frequency counts, in both scales. You're pushing it up with a harmonic that induces it to raise a frequency to a point where the effects of the virus at the lower frequency can no longer exist.

**User:**
So so even though there's a resonance there... because even the idea of resonance is not positive or negative, it is simply about how the two relate to each other. Correct?

**Bashar:**
Okay.

**User:**
So so the other thing on that note is, when you uh offer someone their current signature frequency, does the higher mind have a separate signature frequency, or is that contained in that idea?

**Bashar:**
No, it has a separate frequency. We're only talking about a frequency that relates to the idea of physical reality. The higher mind would be operating, as I said, Above 333,000 Cycles per second. That's where you shift from physical to non-physical reality because that's Fifth Density. Yes. Okay.

**User:**
So so then one of the other things that that we've spoken about before... you've mentioned is uh the gamma State and the brain waves being between 40 and 100 Hertz, and that that helps us connect better with our higher selves, our higher mind. Yes. And is that because there is a resonance that is created there? Because I think that's where I'm struggling to connect the dots per se.

**Bashar:**
Yes, there is a resonant relationship there. Yes. Okay.

**User:**
So by being in the gamma state, that in effect also changes our signature frequency, which then also puts us in a more resonant frequency of the higher mind. Yes.

**Bashar:**
Exactly.

**User:**
Okay, that's fantastic. Thank you so much for helping me.

**Bashar:**
It is our passion and our pleasure. Thank you.

**User:**
Um, uh, and then if I may, a couple more things. Um, you so you've kind of already touched on this, but but it also means that lower frequencies aren't necessarily Negative. They just might be dissonant to a frequency, and also may have their own harmonics that are positive for a variety of different reasons and different effects. Yes. Ah. Okay. And even this idea of integrating as we move forward is about integrating these lower frequencies. It's not about um negating them or invalidating them. No.

**Bashar:**
It's about raising your frequency in a way that is harmonic with the frequencies that you need to maintain to maintain a physical reality perspective. Okay.

**User:**
Great. Uh, thank you.

***

### **Q&A Session 3: Parallel Realities and Observation**

**User:**
Um, so I'd like to touch on awareness and reality, which we've already kind of looked at. You've mentioned this idea that you know phones and computers from what I understand are essentially portals to parallel realities.

**Bashar:**
We never said it that way. No. What we said is it's a way of training yourself to be able to touch into the idea of parallel realities by using some of your technology, including the concept of your internet. We never said that the devices themselves were portals to parallel realities.

**User:**
Thank you. Yes, that was my my uh term I guess that I was attaching to it. Um, so so then based on that idea, you know, I'm aware of uh for instance right now there are protests happening in America and around the world. Uh, there's the the virus that's happening. It's it's not necessarily happening in my reality; it's happening in these parallel realities which I'm capable of observing. Yes. Okay. Um, and then so so to that that note, I've seen the I guess the fear and the anger as well as um moments of transformation and integration um that's happening.

**Bashar:**
Yes, it's all happening now to give everyone the opportunity to see all the choices and to be able to really choose the vibration they prefer and act accordingly, so that over time you can continue to experience only the reflections of the reality you prefer. But for a while, you will still be able to observe all the different choices that people are making. But that doesn't mean you're being affected by them in any negative way that you don't prefer to be.

**User:**
So on that note of being affected by them: three months ago when this all started happening, I was following a lot of the news and I became I guess ill for about a week. And then again recently with the with being aware of and following the protests, I became ill for about a week. All right. And I'm wondering if I'm matching that energy somehow, or if I'm empathizing in a way that I'm not separating myself from those experiences.

**Bashar:**
Correct. You're testing yourself. You are feeling out the resonances to see what you do and don't prefer. Okay.

**User:**
Um, and thank you for reminding me that that as long as I stay in a positive state—which which I did the first time around, and again now I'm finding that it's also transforming a lot quicker. I don't see it as a negative experience; it's just that I'm experiencing it and then I get to choose whether it's positive or negative for you.

**Bashar:**
Yes. That doesn't mean you don't necessarily recognize when someone takes a negative action. It's not a denial of whether a particular Act is positive or negative. But it's simply the ability to recognize that even though someone else may act out of negativity in a certain way, that doesn't mean that you can't transform it into a positive result for yourself.

**User:**
Yeah. Uh, I do feel that I'm I'm not necessarily experiencing the fear or anger, but I'm experiencing it through those people. Or I can attach with what they...

**Bashar:**
You are observing. Thank you. And you can, through your own history and experience, relate. But again, that doesn't mean you have to necessarily choose to match that frequency in the reality that you prefer to be in. Okay. Does that help?

**User:**
It does.

***

### **Q&A Session 4: Meditation, Third Eye, and ET Contact**

**User:**
I have one more thing. Uh, let me pick one and actually stick to it. Um, so so I've noticed that in I don't know the last three or four months, uh, I've been meditating quite uh consistently. And when I do, I get the sensation uh just in front of my forehead or around my forehead. I'm actually feeling it right now. Yeah. I'm likening it to something like my third eye opening up. Um.

**Bashar:**
Yes.

**User:**
Well, I I guess I'm trying to figure out how to use that experience.

**Bashar:**
Use what is happening. Well, what state of being does it put you in? Does it put you in a state of being using that permission slip that you prefer to be in? It does? Then act from that state of being. You know what it feels like. So know that anytime you reflect on or remember what that felt like when you did it, you're in that state of being again, even if it doesn't feel the same. So use it as a guiding mechanism in that way to put yourself in the state of being you prefer to be in, and then take the actions in your life on your passion from that state of being. Okay. You'll be more aligned.

**User:**
It's my permission slip to switch into that state and then act from that state whenever I choose to. It's just a physical representation. Yes.

**Bashar:**
Okay. And you're doing it through the idea of the third eye because that helps you see things more clearly.

**User:**
Bashar, as always, thank you so much. I really appreciate your time and much love.

**Bashar:**
It is our passion and our pleasure. Thank you for the co-creation of the interaction. Good day.

**User:**
And to you, good day. Thank you, Bashar.

***

### **Q&A Session 5: The Shift, Parallel Earths, and Hybridization**

**User 2:**
I appreciate your transmission this morning. Again, it is our passion and our pleasure. Please speak up.

**User 3:**
Thank you. I had some questions about the shift that's going on for humans right now and how it's affecting the World At Large, and maybe also how it's affecting you if it is.

**Bashar:**
It's not that it's affecting the World At Large in the sense that it is actually having an impact upon one particular reality. It is representative of an option of many different realities converging together to give everyone a choice to decide what it is they prefer. So just because you can observe all the different choices being made, you are actually not necessarily affected by them if you remain in the reality you prefer. The idea is that yes, it is an opportunity to recognize that energy is flowing in different ways, but also at the same time it is something we are helping to balance by adding our own energy to give you better opportunities and ease of choice in terms of what reality you really prefer as opposed to those that you really don't.

So remember that you never change the world you're on; you change yourself and you start shifting more and more in the direction of another version of Earth that simultaneously coexists with all other versions. That is simply more reflective of the vibration you have created within your own being. But for a while, you will still be capable of seeing the different choices of the different realities that people are choosing. But it's like looking at these different realities through glass walls. So that while you can see things that are not necessarily vibrationally compatible with what you prefer, it doesn't mean that the effect of those things can in any way, shape, or form reach you.

So the overall impact, to use your word, is the impact now of recognizing the freedom to choose more clearly by contrast: what it is you prefer instead of what you don't. Does that help?

**User 3:**
Does... I I kind of wrap my mind around it as understanding that it's a shift from lower vibration to higher vibrations, and it's kind of played out that way in my life. And I see that playing out now in society at large for those that are choosing it that way.

**Bashar:**
Yes. For others that are choosing other things, they may in fact stay in the vibrational State they've always been in, or they may in fact actually even lower their vibrations based on the choices they make, based on their own belief systems, whether they are positive or negative belief systems. So you may see more and more and more of those choosing positive beliefs that are in the direction you prefer gaining ground bit by bit. But that just means you're starting to navigate yourself through more and more versions of Earth that are more and more positive. Okay? Eventually, that's all you will see. And eventually, those that are choosing other versions of Earth will no longer be visible to you. It doesn't mean they won't be experiencing things; it just means you will truly no longer be a part of their reality.

**User 3:**
That's definitely already happening in my life. There's a lot of negativity like... just it's gone now. Yes. Yeah. So anything else?

**Bashar:**
I think that's it. Oh, all right. Well, we thank you very much for your interaction.

**User 3:**
You're welcome. Good day.

**Bashar:**
Good day.

***

### **Q&A Session 6: Animals, Elementals, and ET Forms**

**User 4:**
And good day to you. Bashu. Ha ha. Yes. Notu. Hau ha to. Yes. So uh, often while I'm working in a forest, I pretend that I'm meeting big animals like bears or a giant moose, etc. All right. And the idea that I can be a friend or more like Playmates with them. And I feel it's important for me to keep my overall energy state of being aligned and balanced for that to work out.

**Bashar:**
Yes. At the same time, you must respect that they have their own energy, their own alignment, their own understanding of what's going on. So all we're simply saying is, while it's all well and good to continue the practice as you have outlined it, don't be foolhardy.

**User 4:**
Yeah, I totally [agree]. So uh, I haven't been interacting with those animals, um, but with the dolphins and many domesticated animals I have. And I feel that this is actually one of the ways that I am preparing for contact with ETs, yes, to monitor my energy while being around them.

**Bashar:**
Well, yes, absolutely. Especially the idea of the dolphin and whale energy, as we have talked about many times, because they are sentient in similar ways to humans and they are telepathically connected to other extraterrestrial races, especially those connected to your star system of Sirius. So interacting with dolphins and whales is very good practice to be able to allow yourself to acclimatize or acclimate to extraterrestrial frequencies, because the dolphins and whales are already very used to doing that.

**User 4:**
Yeah, right. Thank you. Um, is there other types of animals here on Earth that would be a close representation of Greys or hybrid kin energy that I could play out with just for fun?

**Bashar:**
Of course. Well, if you're going to be specifically pointing out the vibration of the Yel and the Shalona—the children that will live among you—that may be something that no animal on your planet really specifically carries the vibration of. But perhaps, again, some of the dolphin energy will contain that. And here and there, you may find that cats may contain some of that frequency as well. So you can play around with that if you wish.

**User 4:**
Mhm. Thank you. Yes. Uh, I had a quasi-physical meeting with a being in Germany in 2014, and at that time I gave it a description of being a forest Spirit of some kind. Yes.

**Bashar:**
Well, there are Elementals all around you. It's just that not often do you have the vibrational frequency in many humans to perceive them. And of course, they can make themselves visible or invisible as well.

**User 4:**
Yeah. Um, but lately I've been thinking maybe it also could be um extraterrestrial being that I met.

**Bashar:**
More Elemental. More Elemental. Okay. Rather than extraterrestrial. Now, do remember Elementals may have connections to extradimensional and extraterrestrial beings, and you may be picking up on some of the vibration of their Connection in meeting an elemental. But what you experienced, as we read your energy, was more directly simply an elemental Spirit.

**User 4:**
Uhuh. Is it typical for humans to choose to give a physical form to First meetups with ETs, more earthlike?

**Bashar:**
It is not so much that the humans give them that form; it's that very often the ETs will project a form from your own Consciousness that you're more comfortable with.

**User 4:**
Yeah. But could it also be in other cases, when we're not comfortable with the energies, that we are giving them some animals we are afraid of form as well to run away from that?

**Bashar:**
We wouldn't actually see you as cows. Yes. And that's why many people report encounters with beings that they remember as owls or deer or things like that. Because again, the extraterrestrials understand that you may be frightened, and so they may project telepathically into your mind and draw from your mind a symbol of something that would be similar in quality but that you wouldn't be afraid to interact with or remember.

**User 4:**
Great. Thank you.

***

### **Q&A Session 7: Bashar Versions, Knowingness, and Future Timelines**

**User 4:**
Yes. So a few years ago you had a Bashar 2.0, and I felt your energy after that being an upgraded version, so to speak, and available for download. Would it be a new shift like this, like in Bashar 3.0?

**Bashar:**
There will come that point, yes. As you accelerate, we reflect the idea of the Acceleration. Now you're going through a very, very accelerated time at this point, going through what we have called this passage, the "eye of the needle," coming out the other side for many of you with a higher vibration. And therefore, on the other side of this, you may start experiencing what you might euphemistically refer to as aspects of Bashar 3.0. But right now, you're still going through the passage.

**User 4:**
Yeah, for sure. Thank you so much.

**Bashar:**
That was... you are welcome. It is our pleasure. Thank you. Good. And to you, good day.

**User 5:**
How you going?

**Bashar:**
Perfect. And you?

**User 5:**
Yeah, going really good. Really excited to chat to you all. Right. Please begin however you so desire.

**User 5:**
Hey, yeah. I wanted to ask a few questions. Like, um, one of the questions was kind of to do with about knowingness. Yes. And you've said before that you uh... I think you're referring to us too, but you say you know what you need to know when you need to know it. Yes. Um.

**Bashar:**
You are gaining experience with that idea so that you don't necessarily have to use the concept of memory in the way that you've been using it. You will know through synchronicity exactly what you need to know, exactly at the moment you need to know it—not a second before, but not a second later. This will become more common as your species accelerates its vibration.

**User 5:**
All right. So so I wanted to kind of put that to the test to understand the parameters of how that worked a bit more. And like, so for... and like it might be the case that in because you've already pointed it out in given circumstances, yes. Um, the relevant information will come through as you stated. But I was going to say, um, like let's say if you were in a circumstance where there was a hard drive and you couldn't recover the password through conventional means, yeah, could you use your intuition and your knowingness to understand what the password was?

**Bashar:**
You could. And all you have to do to do that is continue down whatever path you are capable of continuing down that represents following the formula: acting on your highest passion to the best you can with no insistence or assumption as to what the outcome is going to be, and remaining in a positive State no matter what happens. That is the state of being that will allow, if it's relevant, you to have that information. If you are doing that, following that formula as precisely as you can, and that information doesn't come, that should be your first clue that you don't actually need it in the way you think you do. Right? So it actually serves you to maybe not have the information in some context as well, sometimes. Or again, you're simply giving yourself the opportunity to practice getting it in a different way. But following the formula is the way that will let you know whether or not that information is relevant for you. Because if it is, nothing will stop it when you're in that state.

**User 5:**
Right. And and what I also wanted to ask too, because you proposed The Challenge about uh the collective consciousness of the Essassanis has the information regarding a title of a transmission, and so I wanted to sort of asking with knowingness as well: what if... does there have to be a reference point of where you're actually tuning in to get the information? Um, or what... or can you just have a knowingness in general?

**Bashar:**
Like you can in general. But we have given this idea of this interaction in this way to have a little bit of fun with all of you, to have you play a little bit so you don't have to focus on it too strongly. Just go with the flow and see what comes up when you think about that idea for that particular...

**User 5:**
Yeah, yeah. Right. Because I I was thinking about like if you had like a circuit board, um, you know, did did you need to be like a stone speaker, so to speak, to speak and understand the mineral Consciousness to have that talk to you?

**Bashar:**
Did not offer you an interactive opportunity that would be that difficult.

**User 5:**
Oh, yeah. Cool, cool. And um, also just on another topic, I wanted to sort of talk about um um how Willer was going and what um in Willer's Timeline, yes. Uh, what kind of technological manifestations does she have upline like that they exhibit that you'd be excited to talk about that's different to now?

**Bashar:**
Well, there are many, many, many. But of course, remember that we are far beyond that technology as well. She is 700 years ahead of you, but our civilization is 3,000 years ahead of you. Nevertheless, there are many things that are existing in Willow's timeline that are quite wonderful. The idea of what we have referred to before as the Shadok. Do you know that or remember that?

**User 5:**
Um, can you please re-explain Shadok?

**Bashar:**
It sort of looks Loosely like the idea of what you might refer to as your Stonehenge. But as you pass between the upright Stones, it's a Teleport system that takes people anywhere on the planet in the blink of an eye.

**User 5:**
Oh wow. And that takes their physicality there as well?

**Bashar:**
Yes. Literally a Teleport system.

**User 5:**
Whoa. And that's possible?

**Bashar:**
Oh, yes, absolutely. Now it doesn't operate the way your scientists might think it does. It operates in a very different way. It operates more similarly to the idea we have described about how our spacecraft go from star to star in the blink of an eye. It's a very different principle than what many of your scientists are thinking about at this point. But by Willow's time, they have understood this idea and have Incorporated it into a teleportation system around the planet.

**User 5:**
And what what do they use to facilitate um... and what do the society or societies and people use to facilitate um... do you still use electricity or is there other forms of technology that you use?

**Bashar:**
There are other forms. There are many other forms we can use. Sometimes what is called Patronic Energy. We can utilize what many people on your planet are beginning to refer to as Zero Point Energy. Now, there can be electrical side effects to many of these things, but it doesn't necessarily mean that only electricity is involved.

**User 5:**
Is there anything inherently negative about using electricity?

**Bashar:**
Or no? Not inherently. It just depends upon the frequencies that you choose to create that determine whether it is in harmony or in dissonance to the vibrations of your bioelectric and biomagnetic Fields of your bodies. It's all about resonance. It's all about harmonics. It's not about the thing necessarily itself, how you use it.

**User 5:**
And how has that changed the effects to Nature by having teleportation? How do that influence the planet?

**Bashar:**
Well, again, it is totally in harmony with it because it's using natural principles. It's not a technology that in any way, shape, or form has any detrimental side effects.

**User 5:**
All right. And and is that facilitating greater um ability to care for nature or greater um...

**Bashar:**
Oh, well, yes. But in Willow's time, remember that they have long since deconstructed and restored the planet to a much more natural state. There is actually, in their understanding of history, after the hybrids land and start living among you, there will literally be—from your point in the future, but from their point in the past—there will literally be a period of time referred to as "deconstruction and restoration of the planet."

**User 5:**
Yeah, that's that's really exciting and amazing. Well, maybe sort of slightly related to this, I wanted to ask uh, do hybrid uh... oh yeah. Well, H, how could that look? That so we are as we are now, and then we could possibly moving into the sixth hybrid race? That will happen eventually?

**Bashar:**
Yes. Willer is in the process of that. Her time period is in the process of becoming the sixth hybrid race, much farther along than what you are right now.

**User 5:**
All right. And do they utilize um... there was a question that came on I think last year, and he um you and him had a discussion about uh mathematics with geometric shapes. Yes. We interpret the idea of scientific principles more through the idea of geometric symbols rather than through the idea that you use of mathematical notation. And it sounded very advantageous. You was talking about a tetrahedron and that you could actually do physics in a greater way. And I was wondering if do hybrid children, are they taught uh mathematics with geometric shapes?

**Bashar:**
Or are they... they're taught many different things. And again, because they have to blend into your Society, it might be to their advantage for some of them to be excited about learning mathematical notation. Others may be more excited about the geometric form, and others may be more excited about other forms from other cultures as well. So it just depends upon the proclivity of the particular hybrid child as to what they are attracted to by acting on their passion.

**User 5:**
And and so is that all being I mean, there could be lots of beings involved in this orchestration. Is that is that um... which orchestration are you referring to? The hybridization agenda?

**Bashar:**
Uh, yeah. Or the teaching as well?

**User 5:**
Is so that's is that other... so you've stated that the first ones will be the Yel. Is it that?

**Bashar:**
No, no, no. The Yel will be the first hybrids that might make open contact with Earth. But the Shalona are the hybrid children that will eventually come to live among you physically on the earth.

**User 5:**
And are they so is that the genetics of our current Human Society? Is that what's that... Makwe, the Grays, which are other mutated humans, and a smattering of other extraterrestrial beings throughout the cosmos?

**Bashar:**
And so to speak, is that going on right now? Oh, yes. It's been going on for quite some time. Time has shifted now from the idea of the extraction of genetic material into the education of the hybrid children to allow them to practice learning how to live among you. So now it's gone into the acclamation phase.

**User 5:**
And so this society that you indicated that Willer was moving towards is is that the same as saying the new Atlantis?

**Bashar:**
Well, you can call it that if you wish, but it's far beyond that idea. The the idea of going into the sixth hybrid race, with Willa and a few others being the seeds of the seventh, is the idea of the hybrid races all of them blending into something that we call the Anu-Hat, which is the seventh hybrid race. Which is very different than any of the other six, and will establish the idea of an Interstellar Alliance that will last for a 100,000 years.

**User 5:**
And so I wanted to with the Anu-Hat, I wanted to ask like in creation, is there new existential um realities that kind of like things that are new to Creation itself? Or all that is is actually aware of the Anu because you already... you've already stated that there are...

**Bashar:**
Of course. In that sense, remember, everything exists all at once. What is, to use your word, "new" are the perspectives and experiences of the existence of all that is. So the structure never changes. Everything that exists or will exist already exists now. But the experience of it, the perspective of it, that is what changes constantly and expands the idea of creation. So in a sense, yes, the Anu-Hat already exists, but the experience of what that means, in a sense, is a new creation, just to use loose terms.

**User 5:**
Wow. So we could be for a really exciting ride seeing that unfold.

**Bashar:**
Oh, absolutely. Absolutely nothing less than. And that's what you're involved with too, right?

**User 5:**
Yes. Or we wouldn't be talking to all of you.

**Bashar:**
Yeah. Um, and so your reality is like, even though you've stated that it's 10 times faster, is it still concurrent to us? But I guess that doesn't matter to say that because you've said that all... it doesn't matter. A vibration of violet light is a higher frequency than a vibration of red light, yet they are concurrent in your Rainbow.

**User 5:**
Okay. Yeah, yeah. And um, I just... how did it like... so how does creation facilitate um the interaction of like... because like because creation doesn't facilitate existence, it just is. All of the different combinations of everything it can be are, in a sense, by the nature of what they are, by the nature of the frequency they are, operate on self-facilitating. Everything simply goes to the level that the vibrational frequency is representative of. So it's not like creation is directing anything. Existence is just what it is. But every manifestation, every variation, every conceivable Arrangement within it is self-facilitating simply by the fact that everything exists on a different resonant frequency level.

**User 5:**
I just thought it was really exciting that there could even be the concept that the Grays could um do uh have interaction with us. Like, I thought that was... um, yeah. Like, so so that's that's you've just already sort of stated um how that could be.

**Bashar:**
Well, yes. They used their technology to Tunnel into different parallel realities, including yours, where human DNA was still viable. Because they had lost the ability to reproduce, being that they used to be another version of Earth and they used to be human, but they mutated themselves because of different things that they chose to do in their technology that destroyed their version of Earth and made them incapable of reproducing. And so this is a Vesica Piscis third reality where we've interacted with the Grays, rather than it being one where that hasn't happened, out of all the spectrum of...

**User 5:**
Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Right. Thank you.

**Bashar:**
You're welcome.

**User 5:**
And um, in Old Atlantis, like, were there genetic modifications? Like, were there... is a mermaid... is that being actually created from? Are they real Creations from...

**Bashar:**
They were to some degree experiments in genetic manipulation. But the idea in your present day is a representation of an elemental being that doesn't really exist in your dimension exactly, though it can from time to time make itself appear in your reality. But they don't actually live in your ocean in physical reality.

**User 5:**
All right. Um, and talking about Elemental beings, I wanted to ask um, like with the 5G technology and non-ionizing radiation, I wanted to ask um, because you stated that if it's in Phase with itself, um, if it's tuned properly, yes, tuned properly. Um, I wanted to know what nature Consciousness and the Elementals thought of there being lots of possible non-ionizing radiation. Whether they... is that considerable to it or negligible to it? Like, does it care?

**Bashar:**
It depends on the elemental being and the purpose for which they might interact with that kind of energy. We have to take it on a Case-by-case basis.

**User 5:**
Case by case. Um, yeah. Because um, yeah, I thought that was um... oh, okay. Sorry, I'm Gonna quickly jump to another question. Uh, all right. But this will be brief because we must move on.

**User 5:**
Yeah. Thank you so much for your time. Um, so I wondered about um mold and blue moldite, if it had been discovered, and how moldite relates to Orion, Maldek, Mars, and Earth.

**Bashar:**
There is a vibrational relationship because it has been in space and represents a certain reflection of a cycle or a lineage from ancient Orion to Maldek to Mars to Earth. So there is some connection, although it represents other things as well. But this is a longer story than we have time to go into now.

**User 5:**
No problems. And thank you so much for this manifestation and chatting with you. It's been a real honor.

**Bashar:**
It is our passion and our pleasure. We thank you. Good day.

**User 5:**
Good day. Hor the best.

**Bashar:**
And to you, good day.

***

### **Q&A Session 8: Near-Death Experience, Symbols, and AI**

**User 6:**
Greetings, Bashar, from the pandemic Center of New York City.

**Bashar:**
Oh, all right. How exciting for you.

**User 6:**
It was, but it's very intense.

**Bashar:**
Yes.

**User 6:**
And then today I have three topics to discuss with you. All right. Speak up. Sure. Um, the first topic is the um my near-death experience.

**Bashar:**
How exciting.

**User 6:**
Do tell. It was super intense. And then you like that word, don't you? Intense.

**Bashar:**
It is very intense. Oh, all right. If you say so.

**User 6:**
Um, I would like to uh Express gratitude for all the Spirit guides during this process, like An and Kumas.

**Bashar:**
Yes, yes.

**User 6:**
So how do they know each other?

**Bashar:**
Well, depends. Can be part of a soul family. Can simply be part of an agreement to assist certain kinds of beings in a certain way. Can be many different reasons that they might interact.

**User 6:**
I see. So um, I feel like this virus actually transformed me. I'm the ground zero of... well, in a...

**Bashar:**
Yes. It's one of the opportunities that it presents to people on your planet to allow themselves to be transformed in a way that might accelerate them toward more of who they wish to be.

**User 6:**
So does that mean I'm kind of mutating right now because of the virus?

**Bashar:**
In a sense, yes. Although not necessarily directly because of the virus in terms of a causal way, but in the sense that you are willing to allow yourself to alter your frequency and thus your genetics in response to the reflection brought about by the virus.

**User 6:**
So during this process, I constantly seeing the triangles. And particularly... well, I didn't do that on purpose.

**Bashar:**
But no, but it's a representation of stability.

**User 6:**
I see. And then particularly, I also saw the black triangle with the blue light in the background. I'm just wondering, did I get any help from your civilization?

**Bashar:**
Well, you're tapping into the collective Consciousness, so you're doing that to Aid and assist yourself, which is perfectly fine. That's why we gave that symbol to all of you, so that you could tap into our Collective Consciousness and assist yourselves in the stabilization process when you go through these challenges.

**User 6:**
So during this challenge, um, I was informed by my higher self that I will be part of the artificial intelligence. So um, it shows me that um there's a very long hose, it's like connected to the machine, and then attached to my third eye. And then my higher self said, "Do not be afraid of the machine." I'm wondering how it works.

**Bashar:**
Well, that's a symbolic representation using symbols that exist in your physical mind to represent what's going on in energy in a higher Dimension. It's not a literal machine. I see. But it's a way of understanding that you are giving yourself an opportunity to connect more strongly to your higher mind, which is very similar to the idea that people on your Planet referred to as higher or artificial intelligence.

**User 6:**
So um, in other words, I'm not going to get another implant?

**Bashar:**
No.

**User 6:**
I see. Um, that also leads to the next question is the hyper-tents in the ships. So during this process, um, I saw that my third eye was widely open, and then I saw this little boy wobbling and very happy walking toward me. Yeah. As a little boy. Is that the hybrid kid I'm going to meet in the future? Possibly?

**Bashar:**
There's a high probability. Although it's not absolutely definite yet, because many things have to change first before these things become completely crystallized. But the probability is high.

**User 6:**
Yes. Uh, can I... another... the percentage above 80%?

**Bashar:**
Wow.

**User 6:**
Um, does he has a name yet?

**Bashar:**
Toying with one. Not sure yet. Could be something similar to either Saffron or something of a spice that has a kind of strong effect.

**User 6:**
Wow. Definitely. I will look forward to it. All right. Um, so I have very intense dreams. And then um there's that word again.

**Bashar:**
Yes. It's very synchronized. Do you spend a lot of time camping since you like to be int[ense]?

**User 6:**
So often. Kind of all right.

**Bashar:**
So I'm... please do remember, it's all right for things to be intense. Challenges can be intense. But please, as a reminder, don't automatically assume that intense is negative. It's very exciting.

**User 6:**
All right. And I have so much fun with writing this. Rabids. All right. So do continue. This girl, she dressed up like a magician, and then she installed an eye of discernment on my right eye. I'm wondering how that works. This experience you had... where, when, how it was?

**User 6:**
In a dream. Yeah. And then she told me that she's gonna show me something she found from the Grand Central Station. So it was like a ring, and the ring keeps spinning and spinning. Eventually, there's a green leather light um out of the ring, and then it forms a a green shape of an eye. And then all a sudden it pops.

**Bashar:**
All right. These are simply energetic adjustments that the beings you are working with on another level are helping to make in your energy to help align you, to help connect you more strongly. So you're simply remembering, in certain symbolic form, some of the adjustments to your energy that are being made with the assistance of other beings that you are interacting with on that level.

**User 6:**
I see. Um, another experience was like in the dream realm, um, I was beamed into a ship. But this ship is actually quite different; it's actually like a museum, yeah, very classic looking. And then I was informed that I should put my hand into the black box to draw an animal for the spiritual companionship. So the one I picked up is actually the caterpillar from Alice in Wonderland. I wonder how that...

**Bashar:**
All right. Well, again, you are allowing yourself to recognize the symbol of your own transformation. Because the caterpillar changes into the butterfly, which is the very strong symbol in your Collective consciousness of transformation from a lower vibration to a higher vibration.

**User 6:**
And then um, last month, a few weeks ago, I put a contact Crystal by my window, and I saw a very big orb, very neon and white, flying by my window.

**Bashar:**
Yes.

**User 6:**
And I'm wondering who that was. A spirit guide?

**Bashar:**
That the White... no, a spirit guide.

**User 6:**
Oh, not an extraterrestrial? A spirit guide. I got you. And then I was so excited to um... one night also during the pandemic, I saw more than 30 ships, and they're popping out of the cloud. And then... well, there's a lot of traffic around you all all the time. It's just that as you raise your frequency, your senses become more capable of perceiving what's going on all around you. They become visible.

**User 6:**
Um, so they're flying toward East to Long Island. I'm wondering what...

**Bashar:**
There's a lot of traffic going here and there, to and fro, for a variety of reasons. I can't list them all. Some of them are simply on their own business. Some of them are observing. Some of them are connecting. Some of them are helping. It just depends. But all I'm saying is, if you all really get to the point where you raise your frequency to allow your senses to become more capable of perceiving things on higher frequency levels, you will realize that there are many, many things—many ships, many beings, many different kinds of manifestations—passing through your reality overhead all the time, and even through your planet all the time. It just becomes sort of more like you're living right next to an airport.

**User 6:**
Yes. And then also, I'm so grateful for the Moon meditation from Sedona last year.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Well, it is our pleasure to deliver suggestions for permission slips that your imagination can alter in whatever way, shape, or form works best for you.

**User 6:**
And then after the meditation, I do it myself, and the moon started turning to a smiley face. And every time I look at the Moon, meditate with it, and there's a different being talking to me.

**Bashar:**
All right. So you're using that as a reflective permission slip. So so it's a reflection. Everything is a reflection. That's that's remember, physical reality isn't real; it's a mirror.

***

### **Q&A Session 9: Geometry, Free Energy, and Reflections**

**User 6:**
So the third topic is the non-physical energy. And just through synchronicity, I have been coming across lots of tetrahedrons. And then um, our physicist saying that one group of them, they said if we keep cutting the physical reality to the smallest, is actually like a triangle... uh, is like a tetrahedral form.

**Bashar:**
That's what we've said for a long time. Tetrahedrons are the underlying template of your physical reality.

**User 6:**
So how does the Merkabah come into play?

**Bashar:**
It comes into play as a symbol of "As Above, So Below." The idea of the tetrahedrons intersecting—one pointing up and one pointing down—shows the connection, energetic connection, and Consciousness Connection between physical and non-physical reality, between physical mind and higher mind. Um, you also mentioned that that would be the most efficient antenna to um use the free energy.

**User 6:**
Yes. Made out of certain materials in a certain configuration and encapsulated within different shells of resonating Chambers, it can function as what we might Loosely call a space-time antenna, or transformational energy Matrix, or shall we say a Transformer, or what you might call a down-resonating capacitor. There are many ways to Define this idea, but it is the heart. The Mera-ba shape is the heart of that device.

**User 6:**
Wow. Um, mentioned that that Fros is under another form of the free energy. I'm wondering...

**Bashar:**
Well, it's a representation. It's a certain representation of energy relationships, just as Phi ratios are what you call golden mean, golden proportions, fractal Expressions. All of these are different expressions of the relationship of resonances within existence to one another that Define different levels of reality, including your physical reality.

**User 6:**
And how about the time Crystal? When you mentioned that you actually flip back and forth, back and forth, that reminds me of Tesla. He discovered the AC/DC.

**Bashar:**
In a sense, yes. It's a representation of the connection of forward and backward time, of time and anti-time. It is a representation of parallel realities expressed in crystalline form. But your scientists have to gain much more familiarity with this to understand how this might be connected or representative of these different concepts.

**User 6:**
I see. And um, final question. Just through synchronicity, the Amazon.com distribution center in California is on fire. Yes. So um, what's the reflection? I mean, maybe is telling us that the Amazon jungle was so in trouble, then that's what you take from it. Then that's what that reflection is to you, though there are many, many more symbolic Reflections. Again, depending upon the person that is perceiving it, it can be representative of other things as well. It can be representative of resistance to the transmission of things—transmission of information that causes things to heat up because of its resistance and it's not flowing freely in the way that it really needs to. It can be representative of many different things depending upon the person that's looking.

**User 6:**
So what's the action I can take at a personal level?

**Bashar:**
I mean, you decide. Follow Your Passion. You decide. I see. Follow the formula. That's all you need to do to figure out everything you need to do and take action on in your life. That's all you need to do. That's why we give it to you that way. We boil it down into its simplest possible four-step formula that's an instruction manual for how to proceed and move through life, for how to navigate your reality in a way that leaves nothing relevant out and brings you every single bit of information that's relevant for you to know and every single experience that's relevant for you to have in your life as it unfolds.

**User 6:**
So thank you for your interaction and your sharing.

**Bashar:**
And we bid you an exciting and challenging and intense... a good day.

**User 6:**
A good day to you too. Thank you, Bashar.

***

### **Q&A Session 10: Essassani Birth, Hybrid Children, and City Ships**

**User 7:**
Hello, Bashar.

**Bashar:**
And to you, good day.

**User 7:**
Thank you so much for this conversation, friend. I'm really excited.

**Bashar:**
It is our passion and our pleasure. Please proceed.

**User 7:**
Um, first, I would like to know how many more Essassani friends are listening to this right now at this particular moment?

**Bashar:**
Somewhere between 20 and 30 million.

**User 7:**
Oh wow. Can I say hi from the earth and I love this Essassani family?

**Bashar:**
Well, you just did. Awesome.

**User 7:**
Um, Bashar, I would like to ask about... I recently heard you said in a transmission from some years ago, you were describing the process when you were born on your world, yes, and how how you were joined telepathically immediately by everyone and shared and welcome to the world. Right? Yes, yes. So I would like to know if it's the same process for the hybrid children when they are born.

**Bashar:**
It hasn't been the same process, but in the future, ultimately, it will be. They are a little bit more physically oriented so that they can relate to your reality and you can relate to them. So for now, they don't exactly experience birth in the way that we do. They experience it a little bit more closely to the way you do, although of course there are major differences in that they are genetically produced and nurtured and brought into maturation in a different way. But ultimately, living among you, they will reproduce pretty much the way you reproduce and will continue to reproduce for many, many years to come.

**User 7:**
Okay. And so when do they develop their telepathy? As I I understand, they're very telepathic.

**Bashar:**
And they are already developing their telepathy as they are educated in a variety of Endeavors. Their telepathy is part of them and, in a sense, genetically bred into them.

**User 7:**
Okay. Wow. That is wonderful. So uh, expanding on that idea, I was interested in understanding the telepathic link that the children have with their parents. Yeah. Um, and how imagination plays a role in this, because I experience a lot of synchronicity with my children. Yes. And yeah, sometimes I play game. I bake cookies for them, and I pretend like I'm having an imaginary friend.

**Bashar:**
Yes. You are helping to give them examples of how things are done on Earth. You are helping, as part of the training program, so that they can understand how humans on Earth go about doing things in your Society. That's part of the program.

**User 7:**
Okay. So um, when I pretend that I'm there with me, sometimes I notice that new energy kind of comes into my imagination, and I can tell that I'm being joined by new children. They're paying attention. It's like they're joining the class.

**Bashar:**
Okay. Wow.

**User 7:**
So that was another question that I have: how could we as parents, as human parents, help them with their development?

**Bashar:**
So keep doing those things. Yes. Show them how things are done, whatever they are excited at the moment. Right? Yes, yes, yes. Yes. Okay. Perfect. Thank you so.

**User 7:**
Another question I have is I I've been um practicing your lucid dream exercises, and I have become way more Lucid during the dream. All right. And also in my life. Yes. And lately, I've been able to have conversations with some beings during the dream time.

**Bashar:**
All right. Congratulations.

**User 7:**
Thank you. And one thing that I asked a few times: "Where am I?" And they said, "You are on a city ship." Yeah. And so I wanted to ask you uh, if that's the same as a mother ship?

**Bashar:**
And if you could... this yes. Basically, it's just a matter of size. It's just a matter of degree. City ships can be motherships; motherships can be City ships. Sometimes the city ships might be larger than motherships. It just depends again on the size, the purpose, how many people are on board at any given moment. So it's just a matter of degree.

**User 7:**
Okay. And how do... so do they have Pilots specifically for the city ships?

**Bashar:**
Yes. Again, like all our ships, all the way down to the Scout ship up to the mother and City ships, there is usually one or a few beings that are telepathically connected. Because remember, our ships are grown; they are physical, crystallized representations of our own higher minds. And therefore, the City ships can actually be representative of a collective as well. And therefore, a few different beings can, in a sense, function as the pilots of those ships because they are telepathically connected to the higher minds that are included in the collective that is represented by the ship.

**User 7:**
Okay. And do they travel from one star to the other in the same way that you have described before, by changing the location variable?

**Bashar:**
Yes. Okay. If they want a great jump, yes. Otherwise, by traveling more slowly. Again, we just simply take advantage of electromagnetic and gravity energy and things like that to travel more slowly. But going from star to star with a quick jump, yes, it's the same technique that we have described in changing the locational variable in the object.

**User 7:**
Okay. And do you have to include in that kind of equation all the frequency of all the beings that are within the ship?

**Bashar:**
Yes. But the ship does that automatically. Because remember, it's the higher mind that contains all of those beings. Therefore, the ship takes care of that equation. It would be too complex for the individuals themselves to have to factor all that in. So the way the ships are designed, the way the Consciousness operates, takes care of all of that and includes everyone aboard.

**User 7:**
Okay. So thank you for that explanation. So when you mentioned that parents of the children... sometimes I take are taking aboard the ships for just being spending time with the children. Does the consciousness of the ship is the one that uh kind of works with your higher mind to get you on board the ship?

**Bashar:**
It's connected. Yes. There are other techniques going on there too, and other engagements and involvements. But yes, it has to include your vibration in order to allow you to be aboard in the way that you need to be.

**User 7:**
Okay. And when we join the ships, are we been taken there physically, or it's like an astral projection that we do?

**Bashar:**
It can be either.

**User 7:**
Okay. I'm I'm very fascinated with this right now because of all the dreams that I have.

**Bashar:**
Um, yes. What you remember as dreams can be representative of having been shifted astrally or even physically. It's just that you only remember them as dreams.

**User 7:**
Okay. Thank you.

***

### **Q&A Session 11: Mathematics of Consciousness and First Contact Specialists**

**User 7:**
Um, yes. Another question that I have was about mathematics. Yes. And our scientists say that mathematics can explain the universe. In a sense, it can explain the underlying structure of your physical reality.

**Bashar:**
Now, again, we don't necessarily use in our reality mathematical notation in the way that your scientists do. We use geometric configurations to represent similar things. So it's a different language, but it basically represents the same idea: that existence can, in its underlying form of expression on different levels, be described by different relationships—mathematically or geometrically speaking—different relationships, different ratios, so on and so forth. You recognize these things in your reality as golden proportions, Phi ratios, fractal progressions, and things like that.

**User 7:**
Okay. That's the area that I'm more most interested about, because I'm a designer, and I've been studying the pattern Creation in nature. And and then I was just curious if you could um, with our mathematics, if we could understand, for example... I remember you talking about the Inside-Out universe.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Is completely different.

**User 7:**
So will the mathematics that we understand eventually help us, let's say, represent mathematically that universe?

**Bashar:**
Or that's... yes, yes. It will. It can. It's capable of doing so in the terms that you need.

**User 7:**
Yes. Okay. So is it some... is there anything like the mathematics of Consciousness?

**Bashar:**
Yes. And to some degree, that's actually what we're talking about. Okay? Because because Consciousness has to express itself in a certain way to be representative of a certain level of reality. So this is why we say Consciousness, as a template underlying physical reality, expresses itself as a tetrahedral structure, or a series of them.

**User 7:**
Okay. Oh, I didn't know there was an expression of Consciousness within our... like, well, everything is an expression of Consciousness. It's just that what we're describing now is the way consciousness expresses itself in certain geometric ratios and proportions and relationships. And that translates to an underlying template that expresses itself as tetrahedral structures that are intersecting and embedded with one another in certain ways.

**User 7:**
Okay. Some of your Quantum physicists are beginning to understand this. They have recently realized that the underlying template Beyond and Below subatomic levels is actually a tetrahedral structure that they're beginning to realize is actually an expression of a Consciousness field.

**Bashar:**
Okay. That's fascinating. Fascinating.

**User 7:**
Um, anything else? Yeah, just a few more questions. One is about the um your uh, let's say, job as a first Contact specialist. I'm just curious about if that is a division in your planet that many people join, and in general, how many Essassani beings work uh, when you're let's say you're working with planet Earth right now. So how many beings that have your same um, let's say, speciality of being a first Contact specialist interact with her so that they can the project can be... I don't know, like accomplished, if that's at this...

**Bashar:**
Particular moment, there are 13 first Contact Specialists from my society that are in some way, shape, or form involved with Earth.

**User 7:**
Okay. And that that number changes?

**Bashar:**
It it depends. Okay. But in my Society, again, give or take, there are approximately right now approximately 10,000 first Contact Specialists.

**User 7:**
Okay. That is wonderful. And are they all part of the same lineage of your family, or they're different?

**Bashar:**
No, no, no, no, no. They don't have to be.

**User 7:**
Okay. No, yes. Perfect.

***

### **Q&A Session 12: Dreams, The Grace, and Channeling**

**User 7:**
Uh, my last question is about a dream that I had recently. And yeah, I would like to see if you can help me understand a bit more. It was with the Grace. Um, lately, I've been feeling very strongly connected to the Grace. Many dreams with them. But this one um was very lucid, and I was inside a structure I cannot really explain. I know that my brain was having a a hard time with this scenario. But there was a being inside the dream that I could access uh and talk to. And I asked, "Who are you?" And the being said, "I'm not a biological entity. I'm an artificial intelligence Consciousness." Yeah. And and then I saw kind of like a geometric structure of energy and many points of light. And then for each point of light, I saw a Gray. And I felt that connection within my own brain. And then a Sirian being showed up and said, "Relax, kid. That's the hive mind." And then I woke up, and I had a headache for the whole day. But I had the feeling of the Grace with me the whole day. So I would like...

**Bashar:**
That's a relatively rare gift to be given a sense and a connection to the idea of the Grace hive mind. So cherish it. It will serve you in the future.

**User 7:**
Okay. Thank you so much. Rad. That was incredible. I felt like it was a gift.

**Bashar:**
And and it is. And it will serve you well in connecting to other aspects of your own being in the future and integrating these things as you go further into the hybridization agenda with the hybrid children.

**User 7:**
So I was accurate on my intuition with the dream?

**Bashar:**
One one really quick idea I wanted to ask you uh, when you're in the future land on our planet, do you think would be of your excitement to wear a Hawaiian t-shirt?

**Bashar:**
No.

**User 7:**
Okay. I just I had a dream that as a Sunny Bean was wearing one.

**Bashar:**
And it was... that's because you are blending the idea of myself with the channel. Because the idea is that the channel is becoming more his version of me. So you're seeing—no pun intended—a hybrid symbol of both of us.

**User 7:**
Oh, okay. That's what happens when someone is channeling?

**Bashar:**
Is becoming a third entity in the process of channeling. Right?

**User 7:**
Yes. So thank you and good day.

**Bashar:**
Thank you so much. Have a great day.

***

### **Q&A Session 13: The Eye of the Needle, Future Self, and Grief**

**User 8:**
Hello, Bashar.

**Bashar:**
Greeting. And to you, good day.

**User 8:**
I am so honored and happy to have some time with you.

**Bashar:**
It is our passion and our pleasure to interact with you as well. Thank you.

**User 8:**
So I have few questions and one request. So I'll start with first. I want to say a statement um that when you gave the teachings of the eye of the storm, you know, it's everything was very clear and understood, but it wasn't so real. And I must state that this time, right now, it becomes so real with the Awakening.

**Bashar:**
Yes. We told you that 2020 was going to be chaotic and nuts.

**User 8:**
It's a wonderful nuts.

**Bashar:**
Well, it can be if used that way. Yes. That's the opportunity.

**User 8:**
Yeah. I mean, I am proud. I have to, as a statement, I'm proud of every person who's in the street right now, yes, creating a voice for us.

**Bashar:**
It's a voice. Yes. Creating a voice for us. It's a voice. Yes. So participate in your own way as best you can.

**User 8:**
Yes. Thank you. So uh, take you to the the permission slip of the passing through the eye of the needle. Yes. One of the items that you said to focus on was um focusing on my future self. Uh, I think it's step four to um...

**Bashar:**
Yes, yes, yes. To start being informed by your future self rather than your past self.

**User 8:**
Yes. So I I feel um, you know, I again I understand the wording. I just don't... I feel like I'm am I'm I'm there and available. Uh, but it's like the nothingness. It's um... all right.

**Bashar:**
Well, I'll give you a little assistance with that. All right. Okay. So imagine... imagine a version of you in your Mind's Eye, in your imagination. See how a version of you in the future would be acting differently than you might be acting now in doing everything that you might do in your life. Watch the differences between how that version of you does things that are more in alignment with your passion, with who you truly prefer to be, rather than the way you might have done them in the past. Observe more carefully. No matter what it is that that future version of you is doing, how that "you" is doing it differently than the way it might have been done in the past—that's more representative of joy and alignment. And then start mirroring that behavior as closely as you can. You will then form a stronger Bond, a resonance connection with the future self. And that means the future self can give you more information that can guide you forward, rather than remembering the way things used to be done, which anchors you to the Past self, which then gives you information about how things used to be done rather than the way things can be done. So that's a technique you can use in your imagination to see the future self living her life in the way that would be representative of her joy in everything that she may do, whether it's simple things during the day or bigger things. Doesn't matter. But the more you mirror the way she does them, the more you will connect to the Future Self and receive information from the future self that will pull you forward to become that version of you. Does that help?

**User 8:**
Uh, it's the beginning of help. Oh.

**Bashar:**
All right.

**User 8:**
When you say that the reason it's not the complete vision is... um, it's not that I need to WR there when I do the discipline. Or they actually I'm I'm what I'm referring to probably... I think I'm still getting it. So I'm referring to the time when I do the discipline. I love doing it every every morning. It's give me a nice boost into that's up to you.

**Bashar:**
Yes. So in that place... uh, so I'm I'm Visioning her... me or him. It might be him. I don't know who.

**Bashar:**
No, no, no. I'm talking about the future self in this life. That's that's not uh understood by me here.

**User 8:**
Well, it's understood by you now because I just told you. In other words, years from now, will you be living more in the way that you really prefer to, as opposed to the way you're choosing to do things now?

**User 8:**
Truthfully, I hope so. But I don't.

**Bashar:**
Well, all right. Let's stop there. Yes. You can know. So you don't have to hope so. You can make the choice. But the point is, whatever it is that version of you is doing years from now, you can start mimicking her now. But is she giving... is she or he... what... she... are you a she?

**User 8:**
I got it. No, I am a she.

**Bashar:**
Yeah. You're right. You're right. I I correct it myself. All right. When I am bring... so I'm so I'm the future me is going to deliver images to me. Is going to deliver information to you and feelings to you and images and what have you, to get you to start resonating more as the future you, to behave more as the future you, to give you the information that would be more representative of being the future self, so that you can more quickly become that version of you. But you can use your imagination to get yourself there faster by imagining the way she would be living her life. That's different than what you're doing now, and then simply mimicking her in all the things that she's doing. That's the technique you can add to your meditation. Is that making any sense to you at all?

**User 8:**
It does. Does it makes all right.

**Bashar:**
So we're suggesting a way that you can accelerate the process.

**User 8:**
Okay. I think I took it more harder. More yes. It's not that complicated. Don't overthink it.

**Bashar:**
Yeah. So with that, thank you. With that, I just uh like a footnote on the other uh spinning of the wheel exercise, the permissions you gave us. It's kind of I uh the same feeling comes to me is when you give potential timelines. I focus on that, I take pick up one and I focus on it. But uh, it I I it doesn't take me any any further. It's just a stretching exercise.

**Bashar:**
It doesn't mean you have to find yourself fully in that reality. It's just a way of stretching your imagination to connect to other probabilities so that you can connect to the probabilities in your timeline that are relevant for you. It's just a stretching exercise. It doesn't mean you have to become a person in that reality.

**User 8:**
Yeah. Well, it's 15 minutes per scene. It's it's a long time when you...

**Bashar:**
You don't have to do them all on the same day. No. Not all even. Yeah. Okay. I got you. You can do them one a day. You don't have to. You can make up your own scenario of parallel reality, too. Remember, we have always told all of you that when we give you a permission slip, you can allow your imagination to alter it in whatever way actually works better for you. You don't have to stick to exactly the way we have outlined it. We're just giving you a seed. You get to water it, and you get to allow it to grow in whatever way, shape, or form you desire.

**User 8:**
Yeah. It's a process of Freedom.

**Bashar:**
Yes. It is. And stretching your imagination to make sure that the way you're doing it is what works for you.

**User 8:**
Yeah. I love this. Yeah. All right. Anything else?

**User 8:**
Yes, yes, please. Yes. Um, few. I'm going to read it. Few months ago, I had to put down my dog. Uh, she had difficulties with her body. All right. But of course, her spirit is still with you. So that's where I'm going. I I felt a great uh agonizing loss with her, with her leaving. And I I understand the grief that you're talking about, but nevertheless, you haven't lost anything.

**Bashar:**
So so and probably we're talking to the conscious... the the body mind Consciousness here of me... that I well, I was, you know, I created the garden. I buried her in her garden. And I feel her. I could feel her. I talk to her sometimes. I open the door, and I feel like she's standing there, wants to come in. And she may be.

**Bashar:**
But the idea is that, of course, you will meet her again in spirit. But the idea is that you haven't lost her. She's still with you. You just have to allow yourself to be able to perceive it a little bit more strongly. That's all.

**User 8:**
How do I do that?

**Bashar:**
Well, you stop grieving like you've lost something. Because when you imagine that something is lost, you break a connection in energy. If you understand that she's still with you, just in a different form, you'll start feeling her more strongly.

**User 8:**
Uhhuh. And would she... which is... does she know? I mean...

**Bashar:**
Yes, of course. In a sense, in a sense, she's waiting for you to recognize that she's still there by stop pretending that she's not.

**User 8:**
I feel like I'm pretending that she is when I don't see her.

**Bashar:**
But you're actually pretending that she's not.

**User 8:**
Right. Yeah. I got you. I understand that. All right. So is she not going to reincarnate into another...

**Bashar:**
Reincarnation is an idea and an experience you can create, but it doesn't actually exist in the way most people on your planet think it does. Everything exists at the same time. Everything. So how can one thing become another thing if both exist simultaneously? Yeah. You can have that experience. You can create the experience as if you have become something else, but that's not what actually happens mechanically. So yes, the oversoul of the animal May extend itself into other beings that would feel like a reincarnation. And in that sense, yes, there may be many counterparts of that particular animal that, if you encountered them, would feel like your dog reborn. But that's just because they exhibit a similar energy because they're part of the same oversoul. It's not that the dog actually became another dog. Okay? Because the dog will always be in spirit now. You may encounter another counterpart that will feel like your dog has reincarnated. That can happen, and therefore a connection can be made physically too in that way. But at the same time, that doesn't mean you necessarily lose the connection with the spirit version of your dog either, because that has always existed too. So it's up to you as to what to focus on: the physical representation, the spirit representation, or both. You can do both.

**User 8:**
How how how would I... I mean, I understand, but I'll still ask it because that's how I feel it. How would I change myself s not to be so physical? Like, I want to hug her. I want to feel her. I mean, I feel her in my being. But when I don't feel the real... the...

**Bashar:**
Because physical reality is a little denser than Spirit, you may have to take a little bit more time to be able to relax in a meditative state to really be able to feel the spirit dog, because it's a more refined version of energy. At the same time, like I said, sometimes in order for people to actually feel the physical sensation, you may attract another counterpart of the same over soul that you can actually have a physical contact with. So again, you might do both.

**User 8:**
I got you. I understand it all. Last thing, yes. Um, I am I just um really ask for a fatherly advice while entering an intense water fasting detox right now. I started it, and I feel the discomfort of pain uh in the body and a high emotional roller coaster. There are times that the state that I'm in is so unbearable.

**Bashar:**
Well, if you're truly detoxing, it might simply be the reaction of your body to the fact that you're dumping a lot of toxins into your system all at once. You don't necessarily have to do it that strongly. You can, shall we say, pull back a little bit. You can do it a little bit more simply, a little bit more softly, a little bit more slowly. It's up to you. You don't have to make yourself uncomfortable. But sometimes detoxing will dump a lot of toxins into your system. They will pass. They will get out of your system eventually. But you can slow down a little bit if that's more comfortable for you.

**User 8:**
All right. Yeah. I thank you so much. I love you so much.

**Bashar:**
Our unconditional love to you as well. We thank you for the co-creation and bid you good day.

**User 8:**
Good day.

***

### **Q&A Session 14: Yoga, Passion, and Racism**

**User 9:**
Bashar. Hello, Bashar. My name is k. I'm from Japan. I have a question. When I do yoga or meditation, I can feel fulfilled and be myself, but it is difficult for me to stay in that. Thank you very much. Bye.

**Bashar:**
Well, again, please follow the formula as precisely as you can. That will help. At the same time, don't have the insistence or the expectation that the feeling you have from doing the yoga has to be exactly felt the same way when you're doing other things. You may be, in a sense, cutting yourself off by thinking that it's supposed to feel identical with when you do something different than what you did before. And that's not the case. Because if you are doing something different, the feeling is going to be different. The energy is going to be different in terms of how you experience it. But that doesn't mean it's not at the level it needs to be for what you're doing. So don't make false equivalencies by saying, "Well, I feel fulfilled when I'm doing the yoga, and I'm supposed to feel exactly the same way when I'm doing something else." No. You need to feel slightly differently when you're doing something else because there's an appropriate energy to everything you do. And therefore, get used to the idea that even though you may be operating on the perfect level you need to be operating on to do the other things, it's going to feel different. It's not going to feel like you're doing the yoga. The Fulfillment will feel a little bit different for the thing you're doing.

**User 10:**
Hi, Bashar. I love you. Um, I have a silly common question. Let's say I have a job and I have a decent income, but there is this thing that is my passion. Uh, which I know if I follow it, that I will have less of an income. And um, I follow this passion, I will have much less income. And let's say my house goes on foreclosure, and I'm responsible for my wife and children. And um, I tell them, "This is a blessing. Foreclosure is good. We have to look at it positively." And then later we will be homeless, and I will tell them, "Okay, this is positive. This is a good thing." But at what time do we start questioning this?

**Bashar:**
This is a perfect example of an individual who knows just enough metaphysics to be dangerous to himself. You are starting from a false premise. And the false premise is the idea that you think you know that your income will lower if you are acting on your passion. The actual amount of financial abundance May fluctuate, but if you remember that there are many forms of abundance—such as trading for something, such as being given a gift, such as synchronicity, such as imagination, such as communication—all forms of exchange that can work together to allow you to continue to be able to act on your passion, which would, by definition, be inclusive of your family if they're part of your excitement (which I assume they are), and will take care of everything that needs to be taken care of that is relevant for you. So don't start from the false premise that your passion can't support you.

***

### **Q&A Session 15: Timelines, Shakana, and Perfection**

**User 11:**
Hello, de Bashar. This art from Kus. And my question is regarding the timeline. Um, the timeline that I'm envisioning that I'm truly invested in and putting my energy into is one where all the civilizations come together here on Earth to function as one family on the Stars, really. And where everybody is a little bit brought up to speed so that we also all function as telepaths, in a sense, that we are accessing the akashic records to then having all the answers, as you say, at the right moment, in the right time, the right answers, right information. So yes, what what is the preferred Essassani timeline? The one that you're envisioning that you most probably are putting your energy in, time, and effort into to realize with us here on Earth?

**Bashar:**
As we read the collective energy now, it's probably going to take you, for what you're describing, about 300 years of your time to start experiencing in the way that you've described it to some degree. However, different individuals may experience it sooner; some may experience it later. We're only giving you an average overall bubble of the idea that you're describing as to the most likely, most probable time frame, as we read the energy now, that may allow such manifestations to be recognized more consciously on your planet as being normal or natural at that time for such things to start happening more frequently among more people. But it will build. There's a process. You'll experience many different levels of it before you get there.

**User 12:**
Ela. My name is Pat from New Jersey. I have a question for you, and it's regarding Shakana, those three days uh that you spent um moving through the eye of the needle. What were the procedures? Thank you, and have a wonderful day.

**Bashar:**
There were no procedures. We were in what you might relate to as a telepathic lockdown. We all just went into a meditative Zone. Nobody moved. There was nobody doing anything other than tapping into the Shakana experience at that moment. For those three days, we emerged as different people. At that time, there were about 250 million of us on the planet.

**User 13:**
Hi, Bashar. It's Gabriella from Canada. Can you comment on the belief that an individual is perfect, whether they in alignment or not? And what is your definition of perfection?

**Bashar:**
What we mean when we say that is simply: you are a perfect version of whatever you are at any given moment. It's not that you will be more perfect as you change; you will simply be differently perfect. We use that phrase to indicate that you're not attempting to measure yourself against some unattainable ideal of perfection. You are exactly where you need to be, exactly when you need to be there, even if it's not what you really prefer. But even if it's not, you are still a perfect representation of someone who's experiencing something they don't prefer. So it's simply a way of validating every state of being, even the ones you don't prefer, which then, paradoxically, actually gives you the opportunity to change into different states of beings you might prefer. Because by being perfect for whatever you are at any given moment, you're not invalidating yourself, which prevents you from moving forward and changing in the way you prefer. But that has nothing to do with the idea you humans call Perfection, because Perfection, to many of you, means you never change again. But change is a constant. So you will always simply become differently perfect because you're already perfect for whatever you are as the representation you are. It's a perfect representation of whatever you are. That doesn't mean you can't change and become more in alignment with what you prefer to be. But that's not the way most people on your planet think of when they think of perfection. Most people on your planet think of perfection as a static state that will never happen. You are always going to be dynamically changing.

**User 13:**
I I have another question. So when we switch between parallel realities, um, we have a memory of the past. And is that memory of the past the past of the individual in each each parallel reality? Or there is a different past that the individual does not remember? Or there's a fresh start?

**Bashar:**
In the past, do not exists. All of them. Remember, it's not this or that; it's this and that. Everything you've described happens simultaneously. And it just depends on which one you focus on that gives you the experience you're having.

**User 13:**
I think defining past would be helpful. And for me, past seems to be more tangible, as we have physical objects that are from the past. Whereas the future seems like the idea of Illusion because there is no tangible physical objects from the future.

**Bashar:**
First of all, you don't have physical objects from the past. You create them again in the present. Nothing comes from the past. You are creating a continuity illusion, creating an object in the present and saying it comes from the past. Doesn't mean it actually does. That's just your way of expressing the idea of time and space. And in fact, you actually do have objects from the future. You're just not allowing them to be visible yet until you believe they need to be visible in the present. So an object you're considering to be from the past is also an object from the future if you're creating the continuity that the object is still there in the next moment. That object came from the future.

***

### **Q&A Session 16: Synchronicity, Impatience, and Cats/Dogs**

**User 14:**
Hello, Bashar. This is Lorina from Slovenia. I experience in my life a lot of synchronicity, and it's my favorite form of abundance. And related to that, I quite often uh get um Insight, a feeling, a vision, what an outcome of certain synchronicity is going to be. Uh, but what triggers me is this um time space between my vision and the result of a certain synchronicities. So I would like to know how can I overcome this most easily? Because otherwise, I experience a lot of impatience. Thank you so much. Goodbye.

**Bashar:**
Again, remember, impatience comes from the belief that you need patience. And believing you need patience comes from the idea that you're supposed to be somewhere better than you are. Be in the moment. There is nothing more important than what's happening in the moment. Use it fully, and you won't need to be patient waiting for something else to happen. And if you're not waiting for something else to happen, then you won't be impatient. It's that simple. You're creating an insistence. You're creating an expectation that there's something more important you should be focused on other than what's happening in your life at any given moment. And there isn't anything more important than what's happening in the moment. When you know that, you won't need patience, and you won't be impatient. You'll be fully living, and fully experiencing, and fully appreciating, and fully using whatever is going on right here, right now. Nothing else will take precedence.

**User 15:**
Hello, Tarda. Nania. We have some questions from our live stream viewers. All right. The first one is: what is the importance of fairy tales? Are beliefs considered self-storytelling?

**Bashar:**
Yes. Beliefs are the stories you tell yourself about yourself. Sometimes, therefore, for different kinds of stories outside of your beliefs, fairy tales and other kinds of stories can help perhaps illuminate what some of the stories are that you're telling yourself in your belief system. By how you respond to the fairy tale, the fairy tale can be designed to put you in touch with the stories that you're telling yourself, to examine whether or not they are the stories you would like to continue to tell yourself, or whether you would wish to change the story.

**User 15:**
Okay. Thank you. Um, the next question is: um, you've spoken about how cats are shape shifters, and I was wondering if small dogs also have this ability, or if dogs in general have a different gift or ability?

**Bashar:**
Well, it's slightly different. Both animals will be able to perceive other kinds of Energies that are invisible to most humans. Cats: more the idea of peering into other dimensions. But dogs: more sensing the energies of the people that they live with, to reflect back to them and be of service to them by reflecting those energies so that they can see in the dog reflections of things that may be going on in their own Consciousness that they may need to pay attention to, or deal with, or transform. Animals act in very reflective ways. Therefore, the dog is more oriented to the idea of those internal Reflections in the human. And the cats are more oriented to the idea of other dimensions and levels of consciousness, so that humans can perceive beyond the physical Reality by identifying with the frequency of the cat's intelligence. This is why many people who were termed Wizards and witches, who had sensitivity to other realities, often had cats around as what you call familiars, because it enhanced, in a sense, as a permission slip device, their ability to perceive into other dimensions more clearly in the manner that the cats were doing it. It is very rare that you will see the idea of people that are referred to as witches and wizards having a dog around, although there are some exceptions in certain cultures. But the dog, therefore, is more the idea of an internal reflection of self, to give you an idea of what it is you may be processing that the animal is reflecting to you. Whereas the cat is encouraging you to see beyond the physical reality and connect to your higher self and other dimensional aspects of your being.

**User 15:**
You mentioned that cats can carry burdens for their owners, and I was wondering if dogs also do this, and what we can do to release our burdens with and letting them know they don't have to do that for us.

**Bashar:**
Well, again, this is to some degree what I just explained. The dog, in particular, will reflect the different things going on that you may be experiencing in relation to fear-based belief systems within you that require processing. But the processing, once you have your attention drawn to the fact that a fear-based belief exists or that something needs to be looked at within yourself because of the reflection that the dog gave you, then it's simply about what we've already said: going into what your belief system is, finding, digging up—as a dog would dig for a bone—the buried belief system. As a dog would dig for a bone, allowing yourself to hear what that belief system is telling you, to really identify it, and see that it makes no sense, so that you can let it go.

**User 15:**
Okay. Thank you.

***

### **Q&A Session 17: Pandemic Timeline, Racism, and Parallel Earths**

**User 15:**
Um, is the timeline for the pandemic still the same as you mentioned before, basically lasting approximately until July August?

**Bashar:**
Timing to some degree. But that's only the idea of the first phase. We sense at this time that there may be a second phase, and that is something that we can deal with at another time. For right now, you're still going through the passage of the eye of the needle, and that includes the entire first phase of the idea of the pandemic. So it's a time again to investigate yourself and let go of those things that don't serve you, so you can come out the other side of the first phase, out the other side of the eye of the needle passageway, in a better position to deal with anything that might happen after that, whether it be a second phase of the pandemic or whether it be other issues that are going on in your society. As you can see, many other issues are coming out in the light of what's going on with the self-investigation that is being reflected by your entire Society about what things you would prefer to change so that you can have a society that is more in alignment with what you prefer it to be.

**User 15:**
Thank you. Um, what is the root cause of racism, and how can we heal our racial issues?

**Bashar:**
Well, the root cause, once again, is a fear-based belief in the idea of disconnection. In other words, as you have fear-based beliefs that allow you to have an experience of disconnection from your power, disconnection from your Source—not that you actually can be disconnected, but the fear-based belief can create an experience as if you are disconnected—then you feel disempowered. Feeling disempowered and disconnected doesn't allow you to understand the holistic perspective of how you are connected to everyone, how everyone is a reflection of you. And so, by being in that denial that you are connected to everyone and everything else, you then see and perceive from the fear-based perspective that other things that you feel unconnected to are foreign to you, alien to you, dangerous to you. In other words, the fear-based belief kicks you into survival mode. So that when you perceive anything that you then perceive as different from yourself in a disconnected way, you will usually react with fear, with the idea that you need to protect yourself, with the idea that you might be harmed, and all the things that go along with the fear of being disconnected from your own self-empowerment.

**User 15:**
Thank you.

**User 15:**
Yes. Um, when will the majority of the parallel Earths be splitting off, and when will the train tracks be too far apart to switch? Um, and what is the time frame as to when this will be completed, and we won't perceive the nonpreferred realities through glass wall anymore?

**Bashar:**
All right. Now, first of all, the splitting will continue for quite some time. The idea of the train tracks being so far apart you can't switch is a little bit of a misunderstanding. You can always switch if you realize you can. What we were simply saying is that if you allow yourself to be on a train that is really vibrationally incompatible with who you prefer to be, you may give yourself an experience of not knowing that you can switch anymore. Which is different from the understanding that you can switch, but you have convinced yourself, by eliminating that idea from your Consciousness, that switching is possible. So, being more precise, it's not that you can't switch anymore; it's that you don't know you can switch. Beyond a certain point... overall, as we sense the progress of the splitting prism now and the diversification of the tracks, you're looking generally—not that certain things can't be experienced a little bit sooner by certain individuals or groups, but since you've asked the question in an overall sense for your entire Society—you're kind of looking at a period of time that lasts until about the idea of 2050. Beyond that point, it is going to be far less likely that you will experience anything that has to do with a reality that is vibrationally incompatible with the one that you prefer to experience. So it's going to be based on individual timelines, small group timelines, larger Collective timelines, as to how individuals or small groups or larger collectives will allow themselves to have that experience. It's not that everything will happen at once for everyone, but there will be different rates of progression and different experiences as it builds up to a collective experience.

**User 15:**
Great. Yes. Great. Yes.

***

### **Q&A Session 18: Manifesting Reality, Relationships, and Van Gogh**

**User 15:**
Um, I prefer a reality without toxic 5G, mandatory vaccinations, chipping, Etc. Yes. Do I manifest that reality Reality by making my voice heard by going to protests, writing politicians, the media, Etc.? Or and focusing on living on a healthy and peaceful place planet where these things do not exist?

**Bashar:**
Well, Nania, as you have sensed, the answer is actually this and that. It's both. The idea being that you stay in a positive state in order to navigate yourself more accurately to the reality you prefer. But remember, action is the language of physical reality. So you actually have to take actions that are also positive in nature, done in a positive way, that are representative of the kind of things that you, as a person in a new reality, would be compelled to do to speak your voice, to make yourself known as best as you can. The actions are crucial because then you're actually behaving as if you're in the new reality. In a way, I know that sometimes that can seem contradictory because you might say in your mind, "Well, the new reality wouldn't have any reason for me to take actions on those things because those things wouldn't exist in that reality." And that's true. But until you're actually fully in that reality, you have to demonstrate—no pun intended—the idea of that vibration to act as an example for others as to what that energy looks like in the reality you're in right now. So the idea is: take the actions that seem to draw you in a positive way, not out of fear, not negatively, not in opposition, but simply being an example for others as to the kind of energy, the kind of actions, the kind of conviction and commitment that goes along with the reality you prefer. While at the same time, following the formula: acting on your passions, staying in a positive State no matter what happens, so that you can continue to navigate yourself energetically in the direction of the reality that you prefer. So again, simply put, the answer is both.

**User 15:**
Great.

**User 15:**
Um, it's becoming clearer to me that I'm connected with people who support negative belief systems, and some of those are against my belief systems. Yes. Will I have to let go of these people in order to follow my excitement fully? And will my connection to these individuals hold me back?

**Bashar:**
No one can hold you back unless you agree to be held back, which means you're holding yourself back. So yes, it might be necessary for you to create what appear to be Detachments from people who are not vibrationally compatible with you. It's not always necessary. But the point is, if you're asking the question, it's probably what you would rather do. What you would prefer to do is simply not interact with people who don't vibrationally align and harmonize with what you prefer in your life. So generally speaking, yes. Because otherwise, you're agreeing to remain in a vibration—sometimes not in all cases, but sometimes—where you then perpetuate the belief within yourself that they can affect you. When the truth is, you're simply choosing to affect Yourself by staying in those relationships.

**User 15:**
Okay. Um, I know a lot of people asked about Hansel and Gretel, and we don't have time to go into Hansel and Gretel right now. But we are going to shift over to another topic um having to do with following your excitement and the things that go along with that. Yes. Van Gogh is known as someone who followed His Highest excitement and yet did not achieve the recognition for his art during his lifetime. What part of the follow your excitement formula did he not fulfill?

**Bashar:**
Well, there was a lot of self-loathing in that. But there's also a misunderstanding and an assumption in the question itself that's being asked. Because the idea assumes that he had to experience a classical sense of success, when that wasn't necessarily his purpose. So the idea is to back off of the insistence and assumption that, even though he was following what appeared to be his passion, he wasn't necessarily fully involved in that—though he may have expressed it at times—but he may have flip-flopped back and forth between the idea of his passion and the idea of fear-based beliefs of self-loathing, lack of worth. [It doesn't] necessarily mean that if he followed his passion, he would necessarily have to demonstrate success in the way most people on your planet think he should have. That's an assumption and a presumption that that would actually be necessary on his particular path, which it didn't really have to be.

**User 15:**
I know that's interesting. Because it's as long as you're experiencing the state when you're doing the art, whether or not it turns out to be recognized during your lifetime, is is not the point. It's not relevant. Really?

**Bashar:**
Not always. It might be relevant in some cases. But the idea again is to remember that we've always said that you have to act on your passion for its own sake, not because of what you think it's going to get you. And the idea that it had to get him recognized in his lifetime is one of those assumptions that it had to happen that way if he was in his passion. No, not necessarily. Because you don't understand what his full path necessarily was, what the reason was he existed at that time, who was affected by him in a variety of ways. So you don't necessarily have to assume that he needed to be recognized just because he might have been following his passion.

***

### **Conclusion: Releasing Fear and Living Your Story**

**User 15:**
So to release fear-based beliefs, once they're conscious, how do we do that effectively?

**Bashar:**
All right. Well, as we have said, once they're conscious, once you recognize the fear-based belief is there, it's very important to pay attention clearly to what it's saying to you. Really listen to what it's saying to you. And when you compare what it's saying to you to what you see in what you call the outer World—in other words, what you see other people doing that they're capable of doing in terms of following their Joy—you will realize, if you pay attention, that there is a great contrast between what the negative belief is saying to you and what you're seeing that other people are capable of doing. And if you are seeing other people capable of doing things that are similar to what you would prefer to do, then that means, because you can see them, you could use them as models, and you can do something similar to what they're doing. You can follow your passion too, like they may be doing. So when you take the idea of what the negative belief is saying and you compare it to what you see other people doing—which means you can do that too—suddenly, what the negative belief is saying to you will make no sense. Will be illogical. Because you will realize that it doesn't have to be true. That what the negative belief is saying is not really a fact, because obviously it's not a fact for those people. So why should it be a fact for you? That suddenly renders it into nothing more than a perspective, an opinion, A belief. And as soon as you understand it's a nonsensical belief because it doesn't have to be true, that it's not really a fact, it's gone. Because you don't hold on to things that don't make sense. If you do keep holding on to it, that means you have another belief that is reinforcing that one to make it make sense. This is what we call a self-sustaining belief system cluster. In many cases, it's not just a single belief that you're dealing with; it might be two, it might be three, that are in a sense in a relationship with one another in a particular way. So that if you are about to let go of one belief, one of the other negative beliefs will do something to make you sway away from letting that belief go, will convince you that you shouldn't do it. So that's why we always say: if you're still doing what you don't prefer to do, dig deeper. There's another negative fear-based belief that is making you think you shouldn't let go of the first one that you discovered. Sometimes you have to work with a cluster of beliefs that are reinforcing one another in a particular way, so that working together, you won't let any one of them go. You have to be clever enough to know what that system is like, how it's structured, how they reinforce themselves. By understanding that clusters exist, and therefore you'll be able to see through the idea that if you're about to let go of one, you might suddenly feel that another belief in the cluster will make it seem as if there's a reason to not let that one go. So they reinforce each other to the point where you're afraid to move forward. You're afraid to let yes go.

**User 15:**
And you know, the more intense the fear gets, the Closer you are to actually letting go of the fear.

**Bashar:**
Yes. Because as soon as you are really close to letting go of that fear-based belief, the fear-based beliefs will work even harder to ensure that you don't let it go. And one of the tools they have at their disposal is the amplification of the fear that they're already generating within you to not move forward. So the fact that you might actually become even more afraid of letting it go is actually a positive sign that you're getting really close to letting it go, and making the fear-based belief work that much harder to convince you not to let it go. If you understand that, you'll be able to push through the fear, and it will be gone.

**User 15:**
So um, when you're in a positive State and you start having all kinds of wonderful positive synchronicities, yes, suddenly out of nowhere a negative situation occurs from what appeared to be a positive synchronistic experience. Yes. How do you understand what's happening, and how do you properly respond to that?

**Bashar:**
Well, you have to remember one of the tools in the kit of passion, in the kit of excitement, is the reflective mirror. The reflective mirror. As you are experiencing your excitement, if anything is within you still that is representative of a fear-based belief, it's going to come up. Because that's what the reflective mirror does: is bring your attention to something that's out of alignment with all of the joy and the positive energy that you're experiencing, so that you can find out what that is, so that you can bring it into the Forefront of your Consciousness, so that you can allow it to become nonsensical, so that you can let it go and add its energy to your excitement. Because if you're not made aware of the fact that, even though you're acting on your excitement, you may still unconsciously be harboring something that is not in alignment with your excitement—if you're not made aware of that—then you can't let it go. So the idea again is to remember: this state of being is, as you are experiencing your excitement, and suddenly something comes up that seems Seems to interrupt it, you have to remember that what's happening is is your attention is being focused on something you don't prefer so that you can let it go. And the fact that it came up is part of your excitement, not an interruption in it. In other words, don't Define it as an interruption. Define it as an opportunity to create more excitement by letting go of the beliefs that won't allow you to experience excitement as fully as you could. So discovering something that's not part of your excitement is part of your excitement.

**User 15:**
And so would you say that whenever a person experiences emotional pain, um, that that's representative of the idea that they have strayed from being their true self, and that they are believing something that is not accurate in terms of their true self? And the pain is to warn you that you have strayed from being it?

**Bashar:**
It's a guiding mechanism. As we have said over and over, many, many times throughout these Transmissions, pain is the result of resistance to the natural self, to the true self. So pain is your guiding mechanism to let you know when you have strayed vibrationally far away from your true self, so that you can go back to your true self and then relieve the pain.

**User 15:**
So when people are in darkness and they feel a lot of pain, and they don't know where the light is...

**Bashar:**
Um, light is always within. The light is always within the examination and paying attention to the idea that you're holding on to fear-based beliefs. That's where the light gets turned on: is that you remember that, and that you investigate that, and bring the fear-based belief into the light of your conscious mind, so that you have something to work with.

**User 15:**
And so when you're truly yourself, your true self, and you let go of the negative beliefs that are bringing you pain, then you experience an entirely new reality, don't you?

**Bashar:**
Of course. Now you're experiencing an entirely new reality every moment anyway. But you may be recreating the continuity of believing that you have to remain in a state of being that gives you pain. So again, it's not so much that you actually are doing something new by shifting into a new reality; it's that you are Awakening to the fact that you always have been, and finally taking advantage of that fact by really redefining who you are and letting yourself discover what the belief systems are within you that may not allow you to break that continuity.

**User 15:**
Okay. Well, that's very helpful. Thank you so much for all the information and all the sharing.

**Bashar:**
It is our passion and our pleasure. And now, please, please, by all means, enjoy the meditation that will follow.

***

### **Guided Meditation: Writing Your New Story**

**Bashar:** Be at ease, breathing gently, softly, and being kind to yourselves, being gentle with yourselves.

Go with the flow. And know that you are being given an opportunity to tell yourself a new story about who you are. An opportunity to recognize the symbols in the story that you present to yourself about yourself, and to more clearly understand and discern what it represents in terms of your positive and negative beliefs within you. So that you don't necessarily have to assume what others might assume a particular story might mean. That you have the ability to give meaning to all the elements of your story. So that you don't fall asleep into victimhood. So that you don't have a life of stasis. But that you allow yourself to choose, no matter whether your experiences are what you prefer or not, choose the ability to always investigate what is creating what you're experiencing within your belief system. And always be able to identify it in the story that you're telling yourself, so that you really can write the story that you prefer to live. The story that you prefer to give, to share with others, of who you are. Truly who you are. And spin things into gold. And Free Yourself to live the life of Joy, Freedom, Power, happiness, creativity, and love that really are the essential vibrations of your inner being, your true core self, your signature vibration.

Don't fall asleep. Don't Slumber your life away. Act. Investigate. Investigate. Discover. You will only discover more of yourself in the unknown. You will always find the answers if you seek them out. But you will not find them if you don't allow yourself to awaken in your story and be the true protagonist of your story. Always take action. Always driving the story forward. Don't allow someone to come along and do it for you. Rescue yourselves by identifying those things that hold you back, that you believe hold you back, because it is only your belief that is doing so. Free yourself in your story. See the book. See the fairy tale that can be true for all fairy tales. Whether they be literal or not, always represent a deep truth within your reality. And represent a way you can choose to live.

So as you see yourself opening that book and reading any fairy tale, any story that you are going to absorb or experience as a part of your life, you get to write what those symbols mean, what those characters mean, when they say what they say, and how you can form relationships to them. Relationships with your belief systems, which is what those characters represent. And allow yourself to know them, to see them clearly, to discern for yourselves which are really representative of positive and negative ideas. Do not be swayed by what some of the collective Consciousness stories may tell you those stories should mean. Those symbols should represent. Write your own story. Give them your own meanings. Write your own Tales. Because, as we have said before, and we'll say now, and we'll probably say again: what your Society has long considered to be nothing more than fairy tales is actually the way life works when you allow it to. It's magical. It's transformative. Spin your straw into gold. Do not Slumber. And do not worry. You will find the answers. You will identify the elements that you need to identify that will free you from your fear-based beliefs. And you will not have to give up the precious bond with the child of your being in order to experience the freedom that you deserve to experience in your life.

Write those stories. See yourself Penning them on paper in a blank book. It is your story, your tale, your magical journey, your process of discovery and profound Insight. Allow yourself to live that story, to live in the pages of that book, to illustrate it for yourself in the way that works for you, from your imaginational connection to your higher mind. And allow your higher mind to guide you in that tale. For it will always guide you true. Guide you to more of yourself. Guide you to discover Treasures that were heretofore Buried and invisible to you, if you are willing to dig more deeply into the treasure chest that you are, and discover the gold that lies within. Instead of allowing the brambles to grow up around your castle by slumbering for a hundred years, allow yourself to find your way through and awaken of your own right. Awaken yourselves. Awaken your power.

Be alert. Pay attention. Listen to what you're saying and ask yourself if that's what you want to convince yourself is true, or whether you would rather pay attention to a different story than some of the thoughts and sayings that have passed through your lips and your mind in the past. Gather yourselves together and spin yourselves into a golden version of your being that shines forth as a living example to others, so that others may also write their own stories and live their own fairy tales of Truth. So that together you can all side by side create a new library of books that extends to the heavens of tales of Truth, Joy, love, of action, of Valor, of creativity, of boldness. Stories of power. Stories of Love. True love. Not the false love of someone to rescue you, but the true love of knowing that all of the rescuing can be done within yourself.

Awaken in those stories. Breathe them in and let them live within you as you move through life, as you create your life, as you live your life, as you are your life. Breathe it in and exhale like the fiery Dragon to burn away the brambles that confine and limit you to living your fullest truth. And inhale the sweet scent of the flowers in the garden that replace the brambles and grow beautiful and bright in the Sun. And drink in the beautiful rain and feel the beautiful Breeze that carries you on your journey as you tell yourself the new story that is the story of the true you. And then truly live happily ever.

Breathe It In. Breathe It Out. Drift and dream and go with your flow, because your flow knows exactly where you need to go. With a fresh clean page and a fresh ink pen to begin to lay down the first letter of the story of the rest of your life from this day forward. And just begin to write. And then live what you've written. Be at peace. Our unconditional love to you all. And we thank you with deep appreciation for sharing our story with us. Together, we create a new story for all. Be at peace.

