---
heading: Part 1
title: "Increasing the probability of contact"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2020-08-15
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 700
---



**Bashar:** We share this exercise for you to get used to the idea of interaction with ETs such as ourselves and those like us. It is designed to allow you to change the vibrational frequency of your energy to make you more compatible with our frequency and, in so doing, increase the probability of having contact in your future.

This is how this exercise will work: We are going to present you with two images. These images ultimately will be something that you can download, and we will tell you exactly how to use them once you have them. The first image will be the image that is typically referred to as a "Gray" being. This image will be used in the same way as the following image, which we will simply refer to as the image of a hybrid being similar to ourselves and a few other hybrids.

These images will be made available to you for download. Once you have them, this is what we suggest that you do with them: Print them out and enlarge them so that the head area of each of these images fits onto what you call an 8.5 by 11 piece of paper. Enlarge them so that the head almost fills the page. Let the body come; don't worry about that, but if you can include the body, please do so. We are simply giving you the parameters for the size they need to be. You should include whatever is attached to the head as the body—whatever portion of the body is there in the image should be included—but make sure that the head is at least big enough when you enlarge it (by whatever means yourself or with assistance from one of your organizations that can enlarge it for you). Make sure the head at least is as large as that which fits comfortably on your 8.5 by 11 piece of paper.

Now, take this image and attach it, apply it, glue it—whatever you wish to do—to something stiffer, like a piece of cardboard or a piece of foam board, whatever works for you. And once you have done that so that the image is stiff, cut out around the head, around the body, so that it is just the image alone rather than the background.

Once you have done this, now the exercise comes into play. Find a space, find a room with a window where you can place the Gray in the window in such a way that it appears actually to be looking in the window at you. You will do the same for the hybrid later, but first, the Gray. The first phase of the exercise will be with the Gray alone. Place this in a window or in some setting—even if you have to create a window or a setting for it or a mockup of such—do it in a way that it appears to be peering through a window from the outside at you.

Now, in this room, in this space where you have done this, allow yourself to have either the ability to dim your lights all the way to blackness, all the way up, or have some other apparatus where you can have a very, very dim light and then a very much brighter light, or three versions of this where you can go from dim to a little bit brighter to brighter. The idea being that you want to be able to control the light source in such a way so that when you turn the first level on, either using your dimmer or your light, it will be that you can barely see—just barely see—the image peering at you through the window. The more control you have over the level of light, the better. So if you can apply what you typically call your dimmer switch, that would be most effective here.

And now, here’s the exercise: Once you have placed this image outside of a window or what you would create to appear to be a window, allow the room to go into absolute darkness—and I mean absolute pitch-black darkness, no light sources whatsoever. Stand back from the window about 6 feet or so. Then, allow yourself to bring the light source up just enough—just enough—where you can just begin to sense that there is some shape, something looking at you outside the window. Now, just let it sit there for a moment. Let yourself feel what that feels like to suddenly recognize that there is a being peering at you through the window. Let the feelings come. If this feels at that moment a little bit scary, a little bit creepy, that’s what it’s supposed to feel like. Allow yourself to sit with that feeling, sit with that vibration for a moment. Allow yourself to get used to the idea of having that feeling, but at the same time, letting yourself know no harm will come to you, that everything is all right, that there is nothing to be afraid of.

Now, before we continue, we are going to make a statement. We understand that many of you are saying, "Oh, I’m ready for contact. I won’t be scared." If you don’t feel this feeling, it’s not going to work in terms of changing your vibration because, I guarantee you, you’re not ready, no matter how much you may think you are, for an actual being to be in your presence on a different vibratory level, from a different reality than you. Your body will react to it as if it’s going into at least a very faint version of survival mode because it will recognize and perceive the idea of the vibration of this other being as being something truly foreign, something that your body doesn’t recognize from your own reality. So it’s very important that you allow yourself to feel a little bit out of alignment, out of sorts, when you first perceive that a being from another world, another reality, is peering at you through the window in the darkness. Outside must be dark; you’re doing this at night, or at least simulate that you’re doing this at night, with this being looking at you through the window at night, not in the day.

Let yourself feel the uncertainty that comes with suddenly realizing that you are just barely perceiving that there is something there looking at you, that you perceive it’s not from your reality. And just allow whatever trepidation or uncertainty that will come up, come up, and just sit with it. At the same time that you feel it, don’t dismiss it, don’t ignore it, don’t gloss over it, don’t reassure yourself that you’re ready. Let yourself feel it, and then just tell yourself: Everything is all right. There is nothing to fear. There is only love here. There is only desire for contact here. There is only awakening here.

And then slowly, again best with your dimmer switch, allow it to come up just a little bit in terms of the light so that you can a little bit more clearly see the being. And again, if at any point—if at any point when you are raising the light level, and again I mean just slowly, barely incrementally—if at any point you feel that sensation of uncertainty, of trepidation, of creepiness come up again, stop at that level and go through the exercise again: Everything is fine. There is no reason to be afraid. There is nothing to fear. There is only love here and desire for contact. Do this at every level when you increase the level of light. If you find yourself feeling that, stop and go through that exercise and reassure yourself that it’s all right. Get your energy used to the difference in the vibration between you and the idea of that being actually being there, looking at you, peering through that window at you. And when you are used to it, when you feel yourself calming down, then you can go to the next level of light until such time as you can clearly see the being and feel your vibration change in a relaxed, connective way where you do not fear what you are looking at and know that you will come to no harm.

Once you have done that with the Gray, however long that may take—whether it’s in the course of a day or you have to do it over and over again on successive days until you feel comfortable with that experience and have no more tinge of that trepidation or uncertainty—then you can begin to do exactly the same thing with the hybrid image, starting over from scratch in the same way. And allow yourself again to start from pitch blackness and bring that light level up only just to the point where you can barely see that there is something staring at you through the window. Let yourself feel any uncertainty, any sensation of being off-balance, any feeling of being out of control, any fear whatsoever. Let yourself sit with it, go through the exercise again: There is nothing to fear. Everything is fine. There is only love here. There is only desire for contact and communication here. And when you feel yourself settling down, you can go to the next level, but again, make these increments as tiny as you can until you feel that sensation again.

This is sort of a variation on what we have done previously called the "threshold of believability test," where you are always testing to see what level you’re at. But you have to be very honest in this exercise. You have to really be honest about the feeling that comes up. Not tamp it down, not ignore it, not dismiss it, not be overconfident that you are ready. Let yourself go through the feeling. Let yourself allow it to come forth if it does. Now, if for some reason it does not at all, we would simply suggest that you do this again from scratch with each one of those images. And if for some reason there is really, truly, in an honest way, no feeling at all of trepidation or fear or uncertainty about what’s about to happen, then your vibration will be calibrated and observed and recorded as being closer to being ready—not ready, but closer to being ready for contact, more vibrationally compatible with that probability.

This is the beginning of altering your frequency in a manner that will make you more compatible, increase the probability of being more compatible when it is truly a real living being looking at you from another reality. This is just a very beginning, simple exercise that will start the ball rolling, as you say. Now, this can be fun. Let yourself have fun with this, but do not dismiss or tamp down any feelings of trepidation or fear that may come up during this exercise. That’s exactly what’s supposed to happen until you allow yourself to let it go gently by going through that reassurance that there is nothing to fear, that there is only love here.

So there will be, in the future, other exercises that will build on this one to allow you to become more and more and more vibrationally compatible with beings such as ourselves and those like us. So this is just the very first step. Make it as real as possible. Allow yourself to truly feel that that is a living being looking at you through the window. Don’t look at it as a simulation. Allow yourself to truly feel that it is real. That’s why it’s so important to allow the light to come up very slowly and very incrementally, because if you are looking at it in very dim light, it will seem, in a sense, more real to the subconscious mind, more real to the basic physical mind, because it can’t quite discern what’s there. It knows there’s something there, but not being able to see it clearly yet, knowing there is something there, will truly tap into that survival mechanism because it’s going to be on guard. It’s going to be wary since it can’t fully comprehend what it’s looking at, even though you know what that image looks like when you’re coming out of the darkness and just barely capable of discerning it. Something else is going to click in to the basic form of your physical mind that’s going to make it uncertain about what it’s seeing. Even though you may intellectually know what it is, you have to let that emotional side of you come up and be uncertain for a moment. And that’s why it’s so important to have an incremental raising of the light so that you can do it step by step, bit by bit, and really allow yourself to determine, as in the threshold of believability test, when there is that hesitation, when there is that uncertainty in the increments that you need to deal with, so that you can know that as you settle that out, you truly are changing your vibration and increasing the probability for contact and making yourself more vibrationally compatible with us and those like us.

So we thank you for allowing us to describe to you this exercise. These images will be made available to you for download. Remember to enlarge them to life-size in the way that we have described and create an environment where you can begin in total darkness and increase the amount of light very slowly, incrementally. That is the way it will work best for you to do this exercise, and you can do it as many times as you need to until you feel that it is something you can get used to. It will be different later on when we start adding to this; we will bring another level into it that again may start it all over again in terms of your uncertainty, but that’s all right. For now, just get used to this, and we will add to it at a later date. But have fun. Enjoy.

So we thank you for allowing us to share this with you, and we now invite you to open up in communication and allow us to be of service to you with your questions if you wish. Good morning and to you, good day.

***

# Conversation 1: Fear, Nature, and Transformation

**Participant:** Wow, that was so great to hear all of that. Um, it attracted all these moments in me that when I was out camping and we had our cat with us, no leash, and there was an alligator in the campground, and I remember that feeling of trepidation. But I was such a different person then, and I didn’t have "it’s going to be okay, everything’s safe, there’s only love here." But I used my cat to kind of soothe me because I would watch Melvin, and he... he once brought a skunk to the picnic table and was playing, and I was so afraid, but everything was okay. And yes, it was the same with a snake; he was yawning, sitting next to a snake, and I was feeling all these fears. He was such a teacher.

**Bashar:** Yes, cats are good for that.

**Participant:** Ah, well, he’s not around anymore, but that’s all right. He’s still around, not in the same way, but still around. You can still tap in, and in that sense, not being around in the same way can actually allow you to tap into a higher level that you can use to your advantage.

**Bashar:** That’s so great. Thank you for reminding me of that. That’s so great. Yes, I was so there with you. I was imagining and so deep experiencing it. And that is part of the process: even in our description of the exercise, many of you can start to feel the vibration and the energy that we’re talking about even in anticipating doing it. So even describing it to you is the beginning of the exercise if you allow yourself to use it that way.

**Participant:** Um, I was once walking, and I asked my inner being—it was at night, it was dark, I do that a lot—and I asked my inner being, "What would it be like right now if an ET or an alien just came up and we started to talk?" And I didn’t get any verbal in my head, but I’m walking and I’m sort of having a smiling feeling, and all of a sudden I noticed some guy walking, and he’s walking kind of in step with me. Yes. And I’m feeling a little bit of that trepidation because I don’t know exactly... and it was... it was just a... I felt so much relief when this went on for a while, and finally, when I could look him in the eye and it wasn’t an ET or an alien, but just... I realized that just a person with the unknown could create that in the dark. Absolutely.

**Bashar:** And you used synchronicity in order to allow yourself to feel that and go through that particular sensation.

**Participant:** Yeah. It’s funny, I’m like sweating now as I relive it.

**Bashar:** All right, very good. So you are well prepared to do this exercise.

**Participant:** Yes, yes. All right, is there anything else you would like to discuss?

**Bashar:** Yes, yes, there is. Um, I wanted to ask you: What’s happening inside the cocoon of the monarch butterfly, or any butterfly transforming?

**Bashar:** Well, in a sense, it is dissolving its form, rearranging the molecular structure, allowing the DNA within to impress a new pattern within that dissolved form, and allowing it to reform—literally like a rebirth, as if it is starting again, sort of taking itself back to undifferentiated cellular structures and impressing a new pattern on those undifferentiated structures to form a new form of life.

**Participant:** And is this... well, I was... I love keeping track of these things, like how deer grow antlers every year, like bone, and drop it, or rabbits can change their hair color, or the frog... I used the frog, tadpole, and then he absorbs his tail into a frog. When I had an ovarian cyst and I didn’t want the surgery, I imagined that I was like the tadpole sucking in, you know, dissolving my tail, and it completely went away. Yes. And how birds can change sex. So all these things, are they in our DNA?

**Bashar:** Well, they can be created to be, depending upon your vibrational state. The idea of what the animals will show you are different variations, different ways, different reflections of what it is possible for you to do. Whether it’s probable or not is up to your belief system, but what’s possible for you is in all these different reflections. There are indications of different ways that you can understand and handle your relationship to the fact that you’re creating your physical reality. So that’s one of the things the animals are there to reflect to you: Is you have all these different ways, all the different methods, all these different reflections and opportunities, based on your belief systems, of altering the idea of your vibrational frequency and your DNA in order to allow certain effects to happen that might be represented by different animals. You, in that sense, as a human, are the ones that can unlock from any particular pattern and allow yourself, by looking at the reflections from the animals in different ways, you could do things to take upon a different pattern, depending upon which animal you identify with most strongly for the particular need that you have at that moment. But yes, changing your frequency, changing your vibration, can allow you to unlock your DNA pattern in such a manner as to rearrange it in a way that will allow for such things to happen.

**Participant:** So it’s the need... kind of that triggers the practical need?

**Bashar:** Yes, yes. Okay.

**Participant:** It always has been. It always has been. Kind of like, um, "necessity is the mother of invention" or something like that.

**Bashar:** Yes. And in this case, necessity is the mother of transformation. It’s good. It’s so good.

**Participant:** Okay, so I’m still kind of scared, but okay. Um, what... so it’s perfect for this question. A long time ago, you mentioned that to one person in a question that his mother had had a miscarriage, and you let him know that that material from the miscarriage was taken off-world and used in the DNA hybrid program. Yes?

**Bashar:** That’s not always the case, but in that case, yes.

**Participant:** Yes. So what I wanted to know—and I’ve kind of been afraid to ask, but this is so perfect now—when I gave my donations of DNA when my ET Gray friends came, how did they do it? I used to imagine it was just an energetic process.

**Bashar:** No, there’s actually a physical extraction. Very often it depends on what the purpose is of that particular interaction, but there is often an actual physical extraction.

**Participant:** So I wondered if that means I was on the ship or facility? Is it like gynecological?

**Bashar:** It can be. Not always, but it can be. It’s not like a swab in the mouth. No. Sometimes there might actually be some device involved, such as a type of extracting needle.

**Participant:** Whoa. Okay. It just depends. And um, there’s there’s a lot of um, on Netflix, of joking, making it lighthearted of ETs doing this.

**Bashar:** Well, it’s one way for Humanity to handle an idea that it doesn’t fully remember agreeing to.

**Participant:** Right. That’s why when I even draw ETs, aliens, I make them cartoony, and they’re winking and they’re smiling and they’re playful, and that makes me feel better to avoid these feelings.

**Bashar:** Right. But it’s always fun to talk to you.

**Participant:** Oh, well, thank you. It’s always fun to talk to all of you as well. But we’re a different story, aren’t we?

**Bashar:** Yes, completely a different story. Completely a different story. And with Willa and the hybrid children, when they were asking the questions that released so much of those... all right, that was so good, so fun. All right. Thank you. Thank you.

**Participant:** Um, so I wanted to ask about the heart. Yes. Something that really helps me these days is I focus there, and I breathe kind of a soft, gentle... I kind of think of warm feelings or sweetness or tenderness. All right. Oh my, it gets me out of my head and opens it up, and then all of a sudden I’ll start to cry, or um, and then I release through the tears, like you say, all this stuff. All right.

**Bashar:** Well, that’s a fine technique if it works for you. But that’s not part of your following your passion?

**Participant:** Why not? Well, it can come. I mean, it’s not written out. I mean, I reread the formula again because um, I wanted to ask about the insistence and about releasing.

**Bashar:** Well, you do remember, you do remember, do you not, the tools that are in the kit of excitement? One of them being the reflective mirror that allows you to find out what belief systems you may be holding on to that then you can let go of. So all you’re doing is using that technique to do that. So it is part of the formula when you explain all of the tools in the kit of passion.

**Participant:** So to the... the reflective mirror. I love that. That’s one of the things... it’s my favorite thing. You never change the world you’re on; you only change yourself, and then the reflection changes.

**Bashar:** Well, yes, but that’s not what we mean when we say the reflective mirror. Exactly. We’re talking about things that are similar to the process that you’ve decided to use to represent the reflective mirror. The idea of getting in touch with the fact that you may have belief systems you need to let go of. Whether you cry them out of your system or otherwise, you’re still using the idea of the reflective mirror to let them go by using it in that particular permission slip form of dealing with your heart. That’s just the way you’ve decided to express it. It’s not outside the idea of the formula; it’s just your way of using that particular tool within the kit of passion. Does that make sense to you?

**Participant:** Yeah, yeah, it makes sense to me, except the... maybe say it again, or I’ll hear it.

**Bashar:** It’s like, I understand. In other words, we have delineated for you at every step in the formula. When we talk about acting on your passion to the best you can, no insistence, no assumption, remaining in a positive state—those are the overall generalized steps. But when we examine what is Passion, what does it contain? When we analyze each of those steps, it contains its own components. And since we have given you all the components of the passion, the generalized passion step, then you start to realize there are tools in that kit, one of which is the reflective mirror. It’s up to you to attract yourself to whatever permission slip works for you in how you use those tools.

**Participant:** So what’s another... what are the other tools?

**Bashar:** Well, all right, we’ll remind you. Please, when you act on the four steps, you open up the tools, and the tools are: It becomes the driving engine of your life, which gives you the energy to be excited about acting on your passion. It becomes the organizing principle of synchronicity, which allows you to experience what you need to act on first, second, third, fourth, in the order that it needs to be done. It becomes the path of least resistance in your life. It becomes the path that connects you to all expressions of your excitement in your life. It becomes the path of relevance for you, leaving nothing relevant out in your life. It becomes the path of support that supports you in whatever form of abundance you need to be supported to allow you to continue to act on your passion in life. And it becomes the reflective mirror that brings to your attention anything within your belief system that’s out of alignment so you can let it go and bring that energy back into alignment with your passion. Those are all the tools that automatically unfold and come to your aid in the kit of excitement because it’s a complete kit and leaves nothing out when you act on the four main steps that we have given you, called the Formula. Those tools automatically work in your favor, to your advantage. Those are all the tools that it contains.

**Participant:** That’s so good. Thank you for going through all that. I mean, it’s so true. All those things just are there for me.

**Bashar:** It’s so... they are. They automatically come forward in that way when you use those four steps in the formula. That’s why we just give you the four main steps, because everything else is automatic, and you don’t really have to think about it. But you do have to allow them to function in the way they’re designed to function to assist you.

**Participant:** Okay, but why are you saying four steps? I’m looking at three: You act on your passion to the best you can. That’s two. Number three: With no insistence, no assumption of the outcome. And four: No matter what manifests, you remain in a positive state so you can get the benefit from it.

**Bashar:** Okay, exactly. Because otherwise, if I’m not in a positive state, I’m not clear, I’m not receiving, I’m projecting negative stuff, I’m missing a whole thing. I’ve missed that. Yes. Okay.

**Participant:** So then I wanted to... if we have time with me on the insistence on outcome: Is that getting rid of all expectations? Or is it not about the idea specifically that you don’t expect anything to happen? Obviously, you expect something to happen; there will be a result from your action.

**Bashar:** But the point is, when we say no assumption, no insistence, is that if you really are honest with yourself, you will have to admit that you really actually don’t know what the best outcome actually needs to look like. You really don’t. And by insisting on a particular outcome, as if you do know that it has to be that way, that that is the best outcome, that you know that for a fact—that insistence actually allows you to place a limitation on what might actually be a better outcome beyond what you were capable of imagining with your physical mind. So it’s a humbling understanding that you don’t really need to insist on what the outcome should be, because if you’re honest and humble, you really realize that while sometimes your physical mind might get close in guessing what the outcome would be that would be ideal, honestly, you really don’t know for sure what the best outcome actually needs to look like. But the higher mind does. When the physical mind insists on a particular way that the outcome should look, you are actually blocking the higher mind from giving you the outcome you might really need. Therefore, when you look at the idea of insistence as a limitation on what could happen that would serve you best, you’ll stop doing it. And I’ll just get in the present moment and enjoy. Yes. Because you know that whatever manifests, even if it’s something that you objectively don’t prefer, you have to know from a positive state that it’s got to be there for a reason that can serve you. If nothing else, sometimes you might manifest something you don’t prefer to give you a better idea, by contrast, of what you do prefer. And therefore, by staying in a positive state, you will see how to use what you don’t prefer in a way that gives you a clearer idea of what you do prefer. And that’s a positive way to use what you don’t prefer. Which is so good. That’s how it works. Does this help you?

**Participant:** It helps me so much. Thank you much.

**Bashar:** Then we will thank you for your interaction. Thank you. Good day.

**Participant:** Good day. Good day. Good day. Bashar, great. Be speaking to you again.

**Bashar:** And you as well. What would you like to discuss this day?

***

# Conversation 2: Parallel Realities, Masks, and Voting

**Participant:** Well, I remember recently you talked about a kind of ET Council board group that was kind of like a go-between the government and the people at large on a parallel version of Earth. Yes. I was curious as to if you can give us an example, just to give us the gist of what that council is, how they express themselves. An example of maybe a topic or a theme and how they bring information to the masses. They amplify synchronicity and thus make obvious what the next path is.

**Bashar:** Okay. And when you say amplify synchronicity, what is their action that amplifies the synchronicity? First and foremost, of course, always acting on their own synchronicity and following their passion as the formula that we’ve given all of you, right? But because they have come together with a specific intent in a certain state of being that you might want to call meditative, of a sort, they have the intent to focus on the idea of amplifying synchronicity and making synchronicity more obvious for those that they have agreed to serve, which would be your population. So more synchronicity will abound in your reality, making it more obvious for people in general to understand what they need to act on and when and how.

**Participant:** I see. And is their main form of service expressed in communicating what’s unfolding with humanity and their interactions with extraterrestrials and dispersing that in a way that is digestible to the public?

**Bashar:** Sometimes, yes. It’s not always necessary because following the synchronicity will usually bring you to the same understanding. This is simply a version, an early version, of what we experience in our reality. Because we have said that our society operates on pure synchronism. We’re always exactly where we need to be when we need to be there, interacting with exactly whom we need to interact, doing exactly what we need to do in perfect timing. So this is the idea of the entrainment of allowing your population to experience a similar thing until it becomes automatic within your society.

**Participant:** Uh, okay. So this council is more examples of what does it look like to operate in more pure synchronism, and that’s their main form of service? Correct?

**Bashar:** I see. Okay. Great.

**Participant:** Um, my second question is about collective belief system in regards to social distancing and wearing of masks. Yes. And so, is it true, first, just to give this collective belief system... then I’ll go into the question... that the belief that we have collectively that wearing a mask and having social distancing is more responsible for the virus not spreading than the physical action itself?

**Bashar:** Yes, yes.

**Participant:** And since that is a collective belief, is it also accurate to say that even if my belief says, "I don’t need to, I don’t need social distancing, I don’t need a mask," even if that’s my individual belief, since the collective belief is what it is, that it might be a path of least resistance to, in a sense, go with that flow rather than to resist it in a way to uphold my personal beliefs?

**Bashar:** Yes. Because for most people on your planet, it’s not really immediately evident whether or not you truly believe that you don’t agree with the mass consensus.

**Participant:** Ah, so you’re saying that that could be such an unconscious belief. You can consciously think, "Oh, I don’t believe that," but you might not be aware that you’re holding on to unconscious beliefs that might still have a little fear. Correct?

**Bashar:** Right. Therefore, the path of least resistance would simply be what has been offered to you as a way to ensure that you will experience what you really prefer to experience. That way, it becomes part of a belief system that fits with the idea of what you prefer, rather than resisting the system because you might be unaware of unconscious beliefs that would connect you to the collective consensus belief that without those things, you might actually be in danger.

**Participant:** I see. So instead of having the perception, "I need to sacrifice my personal beliefs to fall in line"—which a lot of humans right now are perceiving as a violation of their freedom—what they’re really saying is, "Ah, it’s not that my freedom is being violated; it’s that I may not be capable of understanding my deepest unconscious beliefs, and so this is just a path of least resistance. I’m still free." Correct?

**Bashar:** And also remember that many people who express the idea that their freedoms are being violated are not actually recognizing that it’s not about them; it’s about the idea of not putting others in danger. So if someone is actually saying they have the right to endanger others if they put them in that way, most of them would have a second thought about what it is they’re calling their freedom, because they don’t necessarily have the right to endanger others, right?

**Participant:** I see that. And so, for the people that might be following their excitement, let’s say they’re not wearing masks and consciously are saying, "Well, this is what feels right and free to me," and they don’t have the intention of endangering others... and then this is like when you talk about metaphysics being just dangerous enough to keep us in a loop. If they have the belief that says, "Well, everything happens for a reason. If so, if they’re going to get the virus, they’re going to get it regardless of if it’s from me or another reflection," is that just kind of a way to, in a sense...?

**Bashar:** Yes. Because really, if that is something that they really truly believe they need to attract to themselves as an experience, wearing a mask and social distancing won’t prevent them from getting the virus anyway. So the idea is, again, it’s about humility. It’s about understanding that you may not be in touch with all of your deep unconscious belief systems. It’s about going on the path of least resistance, going with the flow in general, and being responsible to yourself and to others by understanding that the path of least resistance can sometimes be something that you yourself are resisting for the wrong reasons.

**Participant:** That makes a lot of sense. I get it. Okay. Thank you. You’re welcome.

**Participant:** Um, and I don’t know... I know that there is a restriction or a limitation for our own good on how much you can even comment on anything political. So this is not as much about political specifics, but more about the energy of: If every version of reality exists, then depending on... is it more important around quote-unquote "who I vote for" versus the state of being that I’m in and why I’m voting, which might then attract to me a version, even of, for example, the current president, that might shift in relationship or as a reflection of the state of being that I’m sharing?

**Bashar:** That’s a little... As we have said, it’s about taking the actions you would take in the world you prefer to live in. And in a world you would prefer to live in, you would simply take the action to make your particular voice or vote heard in the direction that you would prefer, right? Remember that the idea for many people on your planet is they believe or think that not expressing themselves in some way, shape, or form is not an action. That’s not true, right? So just to put it in your political terms: Not voting is a vote.

**Participant:** Right. Totally get it. All right. Can you comment on the current president? If he were to stay in office, can you comment?

**Bashar:** I cannot. Okay.

***

# Conversation 3: Free Energy Devices (Merkaba/Sierpinski)

**Participant:** Um, second question here. This is about free energy. I’m just going to move through these ones a little here. Um, the star tetrahedron structure... I believe this is referring to the Sierpinski gasket?

**Bashar:** Yes, in a Merkabah form.

**Participant:** Right. In a Merkabah form. The spheres nested inside... do they need to be...?

**Bashar:** No, no, no, no. It’s nested inside the spheres.

**Participant:** Oh, right. It’s okay. It’s nested inside the spheres. Do the spheres themselves need to be insulated?

**Bashar:** Yes, they do. Okay. Yes. And again, they need to be spaced apart at least at three levels, at least at three levels, according to the Phi ratio of 1 to 1.618.

**Participant:** Right. Okay. So that brings me to the second question: The ratio between the spheres—is that equal to 1.41%? Or is there a different...?

**Bashar:** What I’m saying, in the language that we can deliver to you, is that the first sphere that is encapsulating the Merkabah shall only be separated from the Merkabah by the insulation. But the next sphere must be 1.618 times the first sphere. And the next sphere 1.618 times the second sphere, and so on.

**Participant:** Got it. Now, they are all connected by the spike antenna coming from the top and bottom of the Merkabah, which is also insulated as it passes through the spheres, right?

**Bashar:** Right.

**Participant:** And what would be the ideal insulation substance?

**Bashar:** Oh, it can be rubber. It can be anything that’s non-conductive.

**Participant:** Okay, great. And what would the minimum size of this Sierpinski Merkabah be to be effective?

**Bashar:** Well, in order to really start having some sort of measurable effect for the level of technology you have, it would probably be best to have something that’s at least about a foot in diameter. Okay. But ideally, if you really want to start getting up in different power levels and the ability to transform different power levels into something that’s usable energy for you, we would suggest you be closer to something that’s about three feet in diameter.

**Participant:** Okay, great. Thank you. And the spheres... the spheres inside of the octahedron... the spheres inside of the octahedron...

**Bashar:** Well, you mean the Merkabah is inside the sphere?

**Participant:** Yeah. I... I think this is a question that was... the context for the question is actually a little confused on, so maybe we’ll pass that one.

**Bashar:** Well, but simply: Merkabah, sphere, sphere, sphere. There are no spheres inside the Merkabah. Okay. Does that answer your question?

**Participant:** Yeah, that does. All right.

***

# Conversation 4: Pandemic Parallels and Sasquatch

**Participant:** Um, another question that’s just coming to mind now is: In more similar, more relevant parallel versions of Earth where our collective is experiencing the virus, were there any protocols, shifts, or even cures, or even social shifts in perspective that allow them to accelerate through this chain?

**Bashar:** Absolutely. But I can’t tell you what they are. You have to get there on your own by following the formula, right? Okay. And examining your own belief systems, and also recognizing and taking responsibility for why this is happening in the way that it is with respect to your relationship to Earth, right? And the things that have been done to your planet.

**Participant:** Right. Which a big part was our own environmental degradation. Yes.

**Bashar:** Right, right. So when you have learned those lessons and take them to heart and start acting in ways that are more representative of the other realities that you prefer, you will shift yourself and navigate yourself in those directions.

**Participant:** I see. I see. And just to speak into our connection with nature: What is your connection as nature?

**Bashar:** Thank you. Thank you. That’s one of the big things you need to understand, yeah. Thank you. As an extension of nature.

**Participant:** Yeah. Um, what role will the Sasquatch play in our steps towards making contact with extraterrestrials?

**Bashar:** Most likely, when there is the landing of the hybrids and the interaction of the hybrids that begins with humans, and the revelation that there are also Elementals on your planet that you can start interacting with more openly because of the interaction you develop with the hybrids, the Sasquatch will also recognize that as the timing to begin to interact more openly with you as well.

**Participant:** Ah, so they’ll happen pretty simultaneous?

**Bashar:** Well, relatively speaking, yes.

**Participant:** I see. Okay. That doesn’t mean in the blink of an eye, but yes, right?

**Bashar:** So I had an experience recently here in Brock... where I was walking back from Brock, and I was in this... it seemed almost like a little bubble reality, Oasis Point. Yeah. And I looked to my right, and I saw a hybrid—what I perceived to be a hybrid child emanation—who, as soon as I looked over and we made brief eye contact, that emanation disappeared. And I ended up taking a picture of the area, and it was this beautiful, massive rainbow. Can you comment on what hybrid child that was for me?

**Bashar:** Not directly, but obviously one you have a connection to, right? And it seems like that’s part of, perhaps, the protocol of making contact is like, "Here’s a little teaser. I’ll blip in and blip out of your reality and see if you perceive it at all."

**Participant:** Yes. See if you perceive it at all.

**Bashar:** Uh, see how close are you to perceiving it? That tells them a lot about how ready you might be for more.

**Participant:** I see. I see. So it’s kind of like hide and seek, right?

**Bashar:** Right. Yeah. Their version of it.

**Participant:** Yeah. It felt really, really playful. All right. Yeah. Um, last question: Is there a permission slip process that you would share around creating any sort of bubble reality or invitation to start creating connections with the Sasquatch?

**Bashar:** Well, just knowing that there is a bubble reality in which those kinds of interactions can occur, and feeling your way through what that actually feels like as a vibration, can be a permission slip that can work for you. So use your imagination and imagine an actual encounter, and pay attention to what that bubble reality actually feels like. Okay. And then just take that feeling state, act from that feeling state, and amplify it if you wish. Yes. Okay. But also, it may include being in certain locations on your planet that are also more representative of where those kinds of interactions would take place, which, more often than not, would tend to be out in nature.

**Participant:** Right. Right. I’m in Sedona now, and we’re right next to Flagstaff, and I keep getting the intuition that there are Sasquatch there that are actually open and willing to take some next steps in initiation.

**Bashar:** There are a few. There are a few among the trees.

**Participant:** Yes, among the trees. Okay. So for them, my intuition was well, to go out, have a maybe a small campfire, and make some herbs, and some... and just follow your intuition and see what happens.

**Bashar:** Yeah. Maybe you will get another blip.

**Participant:** Yeah. Okay, great. Thank you. Thank you so much, Bashar.

**Bashar:** You are welcome. Good day.

***

# Conversation 5: Stress, Uncertainty, and Acting on Passion

**Participant:** Good day. Hi, Bashar. How are you?

**Bashar:** Perfect. And you?

**Participant:** I’m doing very well. Thank you. All right. Please proceed. Through the last few months, I know you talked about this would be a good period for compression. It would be, and it has been for me. Thank you. All right. I’ve been taking advantage of that. And thank you. Meditating a lot. And I remembered also that we had talked about once... imagination being a great tool for elevating my frequency, and using the marker of the visitation that I had 10 years ago... and remember... May I ask you a question?

**Bashar:** Yes. Are you experiencing stress?

**Participant:** Um, at times, yes.

**Bashar:** Why?

**Participant:** My life has changed drastically.

**Bashar:** Why should that cause stress?

**Participant:** There’s still a lot of uncertainty.

**Bashar:** Why uncertainty about what?

**Participant:** My future.

**Bashar:** Do you have to be certain about what’s going to happen in order to know that whatever is going to happen is going to serve you in a positive way?

**Participant:** No.

**Bashar:** Then why are you so focused on the specifics instead of allowing for the holistic understanding that whatever happens, you’re going to be able to use it in a way that serves you? Knowing that, why would you need to know the details, right? Do you understand?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Is this helping?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** All right. Let go of that need, because that’s another form of insistence. That’s like saying, "I will not relax until I know exactly what’s going to happen." But you never will know exactly what’s going to happen. Not exactly, right? But you have to know that whatever it is, you’ll be able to remain in a positive state, and that means it’s going to serve you, and there would be no other outcome. So who cares what it looks like? Who cares what it is, if you know you have the ability to use every single thing that comes your way, no matter what it looks like, in a way that actually will serve you positively? Who cares what it looks like in that case?

**Participant:** Yes. Right. So why the need to know? Why the insistence? Why are you not a friend of uncertainty?

**Participant:** Um, I think the stress that comes up is that I... I believe that I should be doing something.

**Bashar:** Well, yes, you can be doing something. But the idea is to take action on whatever contains more excitement than anything else. That’s all you need to do. What’s so complicated about that?

**Participant:** Yes. As I was saying, everything’s changed so much, and I’m trying to figure it out.

**Bashar:** Well, what do you mean? It’s not difficult. Remember when we talked about the idea, many, many times, of acting on your passion? We didn’t necessarily mean it had to be a career or a large-scale project. We meant: At every moment, you have options available to you that are simple, everyday options. Taking a walk, reading a book, talking to a friend, eating a meal, watching a movie, what have you. Just pick the one that has more attractiveness, more excitement, even just the tiniest bit more than any other thing that you have the ability to take action on, and do that first. And when that one is up, and you can take it no further, or there’s no more excitement in it, do the next thing that contains more excitement, even on an everyday level. What is so difficult about that?

**Participant:** There’s not. And I’ve been doing that, but I’ve been guilty about not working because I’ve been meditating all day.

**Bashar:** Well, is there something that you would love to be doing that you’re not doing? If you could do anything, what would you choose to do that is more than what you’re already doing?

**Participant:** I’ve been doing those things. They just don’t necessarily go along with my job, and I’m trying to do my job.

**Bashar:** But are you saying that your job either is not representative of your excitement, or you cannot figure out a way to make it more exciting? Is that what you’re saying?

**Participant:** No. And I am making it more exciting, and it’s evolving and shifting.

**Bashar:** And as I then... what’s the problem? There is no problem. It’s just been stressful at times.

**Participant:** But why?

**Bashar:** If it is stressful, then there is some difficulty in your belief system about your relationship to it. Yes. What is the difficult definition you’re creating that creates the sensation of stress? Is it that you believe you would rather be doing something else at times?

**Participant:** And I think I’ve defined what my company was supposed to be doing, and I have to redefine what success means to me.

**Bashar:** All right. Well, again, remember that you have to also give yourself the opportunity to act on things that might be more representative of your excitement. If there are certain components of your job that you do find exciting, but other components that you don’t, then again, it’s up to you to either figure out if you can make them more exciting, or change them in ways that would be more exciting, or ask your company to change them in ways that would make them more exciting, or even start your own business in a way that would be more exciting. Yes. But you have to act on something.

**Participant:** I am. Yeah, yes, yes.

**Bashar:** In order to give your excitement a chance to prove to you that it can support you. Yes. So don’t stress yourself out. The stress is coming from your degree of reluctance and resistance to actually act in the directions that you know you prefer. Are you afraid that something bad will happen if you do take action on your passion?

**Participant:** I’m afraid I’ll fail.

**Bashar:** What does failure mean? How can you fail at being yourself? That’s all this is about. You can’t be anything other than yourself. So how can you fail at being yourself? Because that’s what acting on your passion means: Being your true self. You can’t fail at being your true self. Even if the outcome isn’t what you expected, you still haven’t failed because you’re still experiencing that as yourself. Yes. In a sense, failure is an illusion. There’s no such thing. There are always learning experiences if you want to define them in a more positive way that can help guide you and refine your activities to make sure you’re more dialed in to what you would really rather be doing. But you don’t have to define it as a failure because that definition simply doesn’t work for most people, and it’s not even accurate in many, many ways. Is this helping?

**Participant:** Yes. Are you sure?

**Bashar:** Yes. So come on, not being so hard on yourself.

**Participant:** Yes. So come on, not being so hard on yourself. I know, I know.

**Bashar:** Okay. You don’t deserve it, and you don’t need it. Thank you. It’s not working for you. You know that because you feel stress. The stress is coming from being judgmental of yourself, being so hard on yourself. That’s where it’s coming from. From resisting natural self because you’re afraid that you’re going to fail at being you. That’s not possible. It’s not possible. You are laboring under a false premise.

**Participant:** Yeah. Thank you.

**Bashar:** So pick yourself up and start acting in ways that you would really prefer to. And even if things don’t go the way that you thought they would, that’s not a failure; it’s an opportunity to understand how to refine yourself. Yes, yes. You’ve heard us tell the story about the light bulb and Edison, yes?

**Participant:** Yes, yes.

**Bashar:** Well, why doesn’t that apply to you?

**Participant:** It does.

**Bashar:** Then act like it does. Yes, yes. Be the inventor of your reality. And if this path well doesn’t lead where you thought and you prefer something else, and that path doesn’t lead where you thought and you prefer something else, continue to refine. Remember: The process is the point. The only point. The only point. The journey is the destination. You have nowhere else more important to be than being with whatever is happening in your life at this moment. Right? Therefore, you’re doing just fine if you stay in the moment with it and learn from it and let it guide you to the next action that you will take. Yes. That can never be a failure.

**Participant:** Yes, yes. Does this help?

**Participant:** It does.

**Bashar:** All right. Anything else, or do you have what you need to move forward?

**Participant:** I had another question. I was wondering if you could define what it really means to be in love and in a relationship.

**Bashar:** It means being in complete harmony with the vibration of existence itself. It means living perfectly in the moment and allowing and accepting whatever is happening to be the thing that serves you. The idea of being in a relationship is one of the basic needs, but it doesn’t necessarily mean being in a relationship with another human. The idea can be with anything—even with the cosmos, even with All That Is—knowing that you are connected, knowing that the people and whatever comes into your life comes in for a reason, but you don’t always necessarily know what that reason is. Let the relationships be what they are, rather than imposing a structure on them in terms of what you think they ought to be just because of how you feel. But be in harmony and in relationship with yourself first, because if you’re not there, you’re only getting reflections of being out of a relationship with yourself.

**Participant:** Yes. All right. Yes. All right. Thank you so much.

**Bashar:** You are so welcome. Love. Our unconditional love to you.

**Participant:** Thank you. Have a wonderful...

**Bashar:** Of course. What else would I have? There is no other choice for us. Allow there to be no other choice for you, and you’ll be doing fine.

**Participant:** B, I’m so excited.

**Bashar:** As are we, always. Please proceed.

***

# Conversation 6: Archetypes, Dragons, and Morphic Fields

**Participant:** Okay. I have like four questions. We will see. Okay. Um, my first question is: In my exploration of a character for my acting, yeah, I’ve been deeply connecting with the deity Isis. Yes. And since your father has connections with Anubis... and yeah, Anu... what is the connection/relationship between Isis and Anubis?

**Bashar:** The archetypal connection between the two has to do with "As Above, So Below; As Below, So Above." It’s a reflection of the idea of the inner and the outer. It’s the idea of the creation of what is, and the reflection of what is. Is this making any sense to you in the way that it’s translating in your language?

**Participant:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** So, in proceeding with the idea of a characterization of Isis, really, you can sort of understand it synchronistically as a contraction of "I Exist." I-Sis. I Am. I Is. So the idea is to have a reflectional recognition that in the reflection is proof of your existence. That without existence, there would be no reflection, and without reflection, there would be no awareness of existence.

**Participant:** Wow. That’s powerful.

**Bashar:** So you can look at the idea as: Whatever you encounter, you are a reflection of that, and it is a reflection of you in some way, shape, or form, that informs you about more of yourself, as you are reflecting to them the opportunity to learn more of themselves. Isis is about relationship and reflection to each other in the relationship about becoming more of who you are. So it’s about being more self-aware. Does this help?

**Participant:** Yeah, it really does. All right. Thank you.

**Participant:** Yes. Um, my second question is: In a recent shamanic journey, I experienced these two large dragon beings. They were orange and had like rainbow eyes, and they were very, very joyful feeling. Yes. And then right after, a like massive dragonfly-like... huge, huge... followed me home on my drive home. Yes. That was orange, like the same color. Who... all right. Thank you for your synchronicity. Who are these beings?

**Bashar:** They are beings that exist on another level of consciousness, another realm, another dimensional existence. Their form is interpreted in physical reality as what you perceive to be the idea of a dragon. It’s not what they actually look like in their own reality, but that’s how your reality interprets the power of them, the difference of them, the archetypal alienness of them. It represents ancient awareness, ancient wisdom, ancient knowledge.

**Participant:** And the rainbow eyes... what did that symbolize?

**Bashar:** Well, it’s representational of all knowledge, all colors, all vibrations, all frequencies, as it breaks down in your physical reality into various components, being that it originates as white light, which is all the colors blended together. Beautiful. Orange standing out would have more to do with the idea of emotionality, dealing with emotional truth, the power of emotional truth, which is also something you need for your acting.

**Participant:** Yeah, that makes a lot of sense for me and what I’m all about. Yes. Thank you. Yes. What else? Um, I have actually another Isis question that just popped in: Was she an Anu?

**Bashar:** Some of the origin of that is attributed to specific Anu beings, but she’s also an archetypal level of consciousness that is in the collective whole. So the answer is yes, both.

**Participant:** Cool. Um, my next question is: Can you elaborate on the idea of morphic fields and the differentiation, if there is, between them and bubble realities?

**Bashar:** Well, again, the idea is that there is a field of consciousness, if you want to look at it that way. And one aspect of the field of overall consciousness is that there are templates within it that represent different kinds of expressions or forms. Connecting into the sublevel of a morphic field within the overall field of consciousness can be representative of identifying vibrationally with a particular template, a particular expression, a particular form of expression that will manifest in your physical reality as a particular physical form. Did that answer your question?

**Participant:** Yeah, yeah. It’s interesting. All right. Will that do?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant:** I just want to say I love you, Bashar, so much.

**Bashar:** All right. Thank you. Our unconditional love to you as well. Good.

***

# Conversation 7: The Formula, Excitement vs. Anxiety, and Planning

**Participant:** Hello and to you, good day. How are you?

**Bashar:** Perfect. And you?

**Participant:** I’m doing great. All right. What would you like to discuss?

**Participant:** Most of today’s questions are going to be related to the Formula. I’m wondering if you can reiterate that first of all.

**Bashar:** Yes.
1. Act on your passion, whatever contains the most passion, no matter what it is. First, act on it to the best you are able.
2. Taking it as far as you can until you can take it no further, until the excitement wanes, making sure you’re not the one dampening the excitement with your own belief system. If you’re not, then just act on it as best you can, taking it as far as you can till you can take it no further.
3. Act on your passion with no insistence, no assumption as to what the outcome ought to look like, where you think it should take you, so on and so forth, because you really don’t know what the best outcome really needs to look like.
4. Remain in a positive state no matter what manifests. Even if what manifests is something you objectively don’t prefer, you have to know from a positive position that it’s got to be there for a reason that could serve you in a positive way. And if you maintain that positive vibration, you will understand how to use what you don’t prefer in a way that you do, and it will serve you. You will extract the benefit from the situation rather than negativity from it by remaining in a positive state and knowing that it’s got to be there for a reason.

Those are the four steps that open up all the tools in the kit that begin to function automatically for you when you follow that four-step formula as precisely as you possibly can.

**Participant:** Okay. And that’s exactly what these questions are about: Fine-tuning my precision in following those steps. So the first question is: When you say excitement or passion, that also means "most positive feeling"? Is that accurate?

**Bashar:** It can be. Again, it’s what you’re attracted to. And this goes for any level in your life. In other words, it can be very simple. At any moment, you can have a number of choices available to you of things that you could take some action on: Taking a walk, reading a book, talking to a friend, eating a meal, what have you. Whichever one seems a little bit more exciting, a little bit more attractive, getting you to focus on it with some kind of idea of "that’s what feels right right now," do that one first. As far as you can take it until you can take it no further. And just keep doing that every time the excitement wanes or you’ve completed that particular action. Does that make sense?

**Participant:** Yes, it does. Very much so. All right.

**Participant:** Um, the next question is: Do you have some sort of mechanism for discerning when, say, I’m making my excitement appear as my anxiety, or my anxiety appear as excitement? Is there a mechanism to assist in discerning that?

**Bashar:** Yes. It’s called self-honesty. All you have to do is be aware that you really, when you stop and think about it, when you let yourself be your true self, you know the difference between what feels exciting and what feels like anxiety. All of you do. So it’s just honest self-examination, honest self-investigation. You know the difference if you are honest with yourself.

**Participant:** I... I really do think I do. Can I give an example of something I would call subtle, so to speak, to me at least?

**Bashar:** Of course.

**Participant:** So, for example, most of the time when I feel like exercising, or when I want to exercise, it is my excitement. Now, sometimes it’s me saying, "Well, maybe I should be exercising." In this case, and in those cases, it can be counterproductive if my body actually wants rest. In that case. But the reason that I guess it’s subtle to me is because I just assume—which I know isn’t the wisest idea—I kind of assume that some things are almost always positive if they fit into a particular routine. But maybe the routine is off.

**Bashar:** Okay. I see what you’re saying. Now this is making more sense. Yes. You just have to realize that, in a sense—and this is a generalization, I know there might be exceptions—because sometimes it can be your Higher Self saying, "Hey, why don’t you exercise now?" But sometimes, if you actually have to ask the question of yourself, "Should I exercise now?" that might be an indication... might be an indication that that’s coming from anxiety and a sense of what you’re expected or *should* do, as opposed to it actually being your natural excitement, which, if it was your natural excitement, you would probably just be exercising without even thinking about it.

**Participant:** That makes a lot of sense.

**Bashar:** Now, there can be exceptions to this. That’s why it takes honest self-examination, self-investigation, to know the difference. But if you just stop and think about it, you can probably tell the difference.

**Participant:** Yeah, I... I completely agree, actually. All right. Next: Can you deliberately develop a sort of language between you and your Higher Mind? A sort of agreement where maybe one this equals that? Sort of agreement. Can you do that?

**Bashar:** Sometimes there is already a language between you and your Higher Mind. That’s what we’re talking about: Passion. That sensation, excitement, curiosity, love, passion, creativity—that is your physical translation of the communication from your Higher Mind. Because it’s speaking to you in an energy language, but that’s how your body translates that energy language. Passion is what lets you know you are being communicated with by your Higher Mind, and the message is: "This is you. This is who you are. Act on this now." That’s what the Higher Mind is telling you when you have that sensation. So there’s already a direct communication. Your response needs to be the taking of the action, because the language of physical reality is action, not words. So when you do a physical action, that’s when the Higher Mind knows you have heard it and are responding to it, and then it can send you more messages: "Do this next. Now do this. Now do this," by sending that sensation that you translate as passion. "Act on this now. Act on this one now." Following that thread of passion, which is the communication from the Higher Mind. And the more you keep acting, the more you will be given more opportunities to act on your passion. If you’re not acting, you’re not speaking the language of physical reality. You’re not communicating with the Higher Mind. You’re not responding to it in the proper language. And if you’re not acting on what it’s already said to you, what it’s already given you to act on, why should it send you more opportunities to act on your passion if you’re not willing to act on what it’s already sent you? The communication is already there. That’s what we’re describing.

**Participant:** Okay. That’s perfect. Yes. I... I just have to act on it more, I suppose.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant:** So next question is related to "acting to the best of my ability." Yes. Um, once you’re in the activity or in the action, should that be your dominant priority, your primary priority, to be acting to the best of your ability?

**Bashar:** Why wouldn’t it be?

**Participant:** Um, maybe it could be still being in tune with that sensitivity, I guess. That would still qualify as acting to the best of your ability.

**Bashar:** Okay. The idea of acting to the best of your ability also takes into account the parameters that exist in your particular reality, in your society, what you’re actually capable of doing while maintaining integrity. In other words, you’re not breaking your laws, you’re not being unethical, things like that, because your society says, "We’ve agreed that these are the parameters that everyone will operate in in order to be of service to everyone else and allow everyone to do what they need to do." So the idea is not only in your own personal ability to act, but also to what you have agreed are the parameters that allow you to take an action. That’s all you need to understand about "act on the best to your ability": Taking it as far as you can until you can take it no further. And if you cannot act on it any further because of any of these parameters, that’s your first clue that you need to look around for the next thing that contains more excitement than anything else and act on that next, because whether it seems connected on the surface or not, the excitement lets you know it is connected to your path.

**Participant:** Perfect. Makes sense. Um, so again, relative to acting to the best of my ability: Yes. There’s a rule that I’ve heard—not a rule, but a suggestion—going around: The 85% rule. Where you act to the best of your ability to about 85%, so that you leave that 15% for sort of being more relaxed and being more receptive.

**Bashar:** Well, if you want to look at it that way, that’s fine. But that’s also saying that there’s some kind of an assumption that if you act 100% as best you can, that you can’t be relaxed. Why would you buy into something like that if you don’t necessarily prefer to?

**Participant:** That’s a great point, too. My goodness.

**Bashar:** Okay. Do it whatever way works for you. But the point is, that’s just a way that some people have of interpreting the idea that works for them, but it’s not a hardline fact that it is literally accurate in terms of percentages. Acting 100%, really, if you’re following your passion, would by definition include your ability to relax. Because why would your passion contain stress? You follow? That’s a misunderstanding of the definition of passion: That somehow you have to short-change it in order to be relaxed, instead of understanding that you can go full steam ahead, but full steam ahead would also mean that there is the capability of doing that in a way that allows you to be relaxed.

**Participant:** Perfect.

**Bashar:** It’s a more inclusive, holistic understanding that the definition is the definition, and a different definition is a different reality.

**Participant:** Okay. I... I agree. Um, now, "acting as far as you can." So to me, there are three possibilities that I see about this. One would be: Until something else is more exciting. Yes. Two would be: Until it’s fully resolved or it’s come to full fruition. Yes, of course, there are going to be more connections and aspects, however, full fruition. And lastly would be: If you appear to be stuck and it might be becoming seemingly excessively difficult, perhaps it would be time to do something else.

**Bashar:** Or first, always, always first: If your excitement or ability wanes, first examine whether your beliefs are making it appear to wane, or whether it is really waning as part of your synchronicity. Yes. So if it feels excessively difficult to me, that would mean there’s an opportunity to break it down more and see if there are more gradual steps that you could take so that it is easier, or completely different steps that are more in alignment with the way that works for you. Okay. If you have determined, however, that no such steps exist, and it’s truly your excitement waning synchronistically to show you that something else needs to be done, then if you are again honest in your self-examination as to whether you’re the one dampening the excitement or whether it’s dampening on its own synchronistically, then you’ll know what to do. Okay. Because many times you could continue to do something similar if you simply allow yourself to do it in a more exciting way. That can sometimes be the message: You may not be doing it in the way that actually works for you, can be creating the difficulty that you experience.

**Participant:** That makes a lot of sense. That makes a lot of sense.

**Participant:** Next question is relative to the expectation, or having no expectation or insistence on the outcome. And that is no assumption or insistence. You can expect that something will happen, but you just don’t have to be very specific about it.

**Bashar:** What you can expect is that if you allow it to be the natural outcome, it will serve you best. You can expect that. But when we say expectation, we mean insistence or assumption of a particular form that, in your mind’s estimation, may not actually be the best outcome, yet it may have been trained to think that it must be.

**Participant:** Okay. So one example of this would be... say it’s the NBA finals, and you’re at Game Seven, and before the game, maybe the professional player is visualizing and vibrating winning the championship for the purpose of connecting to that parallel reality stream or being. That’s fine. That’s fine. That’s the visualization part, and it is important to stay in that vibration. But drop any insistence on what the outcome ought to be, because you don’t actually know what the best outcome for you would be until it happens. So could losing the championship be the best outcome?

**Bashar:** Yes. Because then what that puts the person in touch with may be the most important thing they actually need to get in touch with. Because remember, it’s not necessarily about winning the game. It might be more important for them to have a knowledge of the reaction they have to losing. Or maybe not winning the game will create a different scenario than otherwise would have happened that would actually put them where they need to be. That’s actually more important to them than having won the game and winding up somewhere else. You have to allow yourself to know that what happens is what needs to happen, as long as you are in the state of being that is the best state of being—the state of being of allowing for the best possible outcome, but not insisting what "best" means. Then you’re in the proper state.

**Participant:** Okay. So you might become more focused, your desire might be stronger, you might take different actions for the next year because of the outcome, etc.

**Bashar:** Yes. And it might teach you something about yourself in a very different way and in things that have nothing to do with the game at all.

**Participant:** Okay. Wow. Okay. That makes a lot... again, that’s the importance of the fourth step of the formula: You remain in a positive state no matter what happens. Because it’s not about what happens; it’s about what you do with what happens that matters. And if you remain in a positive state no matter what happens, you will always get a benefit from it, even if it’s not the one you thought you would get. But you won’t get that, and you won’t experience that, if you don’t remain in the same positive state in which you created the experience. This is the secret of visualization: By all means, you can imagine and visualize a particular, a specific outcome as the thing that gets you in that excited state. But as soon as you’re in the excited state, you have to drop the picture, because you don’t really know for sure that that’s really the best outcome. Let your Higher Mind bring you what you actually need at that moment that is truly going to serve you the best. And you have to know that that’s what’s going to happen. Even if what manifests is something that you objectively don’t prefer, if it manifested, then you have to know it’s there for a reason that can serve you. And by staying in a positive state, you will get the benefit of why that’s there, instead of insisting that something has gone wrong, and then suddenly you cannot get the benefit; you can only see the negative side of it.

**Participant:** Perfect. Um, would you say that having no insistence on the outcome also assists with being more process-oriented, more focused on what is needed out of you in order to even aim to do what you want to do? It’s not about what you want to do; it’s about what you need to do. And what you need to do will be shown to you in the present moment.

**Bashar:** Okay.

**Participant:** How do plans fit into the formula?

**Bashar:** Again, you can plan. You can plan if you want, as part of the process, as long as you allow yourself to have a plan where the plan can change according to the flow of what happens.

**Participant:** Okay. Perfect. So I... I kind of see there’s almost a path of no resistance, or a path of very little resistance, and there’s a path of least resistance. Yeah. And they’re kind of different pacings, in a sense. They have different...

**Bashar:** Well, yes and no. When we use the term "path of least resistance," that allows for there to be an experience of no resistance at all, because then that would be the least.

**Participant:** Okay. That makes a lot of sense. Yeah.

**Bashar:** We’re not really talking about degrees in that sense. Just allow for the path of least resistance. That could mean no resistance at all.

**Participant:** Okay. That’s all I needed to hear. That’s great. All right. Thank you very much.

**Bashar:** Good day.

**Participant:** You too. Always.

***

# Conversation 8: Heart Health, Prophecy, and Orion

**Participant:** B, hello. I’m so happy to talk with you. So thank you for having me.

**Bashar:** Thank you for the co-creation. Please proceed.

**Participant:** I have a couple of questions. So one: In a previous transmission a few years ago, you talked about... that the reason that there is no heart cancer, and that you would talk about it at another time. Yesterday, there were some studies that came out that said the Coronavirus has an after-effect on the heart similar to someone having had a heart attack. And I was wondering, is there anything you could say about the heart and Corona?

**Bashar:** Remember that the heart is the first resonant reflection of the Higher Mind for the physical mind. In other words, Higher Mind delivers vibration; heart reflects the vibration to the physical mind, but then it gets filtered through the belief system. Positive and negative. Corona, being a reflection of certain connections and responsibilities to the idea of Nature and the degradation of the Earth that Humanity has created, will influence that particular reflection because of the heart connection. That it’s important to have to yourselves as an expression of Nature. So Corona is reflecting the idea that you are now experiencing a filtering from the Higher Mind to the heart, but from the heart to the physical mind, but through now an extra filter of awareness and responsibility of your connection as Nature. And so it’s going to create a kind of sense of disconnection, a kind of sense of responsibility energy that needs to be understood, needs to be taken to heart by you, in terms of the idea of your connection—not *to* Nature, but *as* an expression of Nature. So that you will stop degrading the planet, stop degrading yourselves.

**Participant:** Thank you. That’s a wonderful insight. Thank you. It’s about loving yourself. Loving yourself and getting a reflection through Corona that you haven’t been loving yourselves.

**Bashar:** Um, thank you for that information. That’s very helpful. All right.

**Participant:** Um, another question I have is that there is an Aboriginal Australian prophecy that on the 22nd of December, there will be the activation of a spiritual tool in a particular area in Australia, which will create a final separation between highest thought vibration, 5D reality, and a continuation of a polarity Earth. And I wonder if that is accurate.

**Bashar:** In a sense, yes. It’s another way of talking about what we’ve been talking about: The splitting into different parallel realities that’s going on on your planet. So they’re simply recognizing one that is relevant for their interpretation and their understanding, and expressing it in those particular terminologies. It’s a recognition of the continuing of the splitting of different reality opportunities for you to decide which one you want to align with.

**Participant:** Okay. Thank you. Um, I just wondered if I have a counterpart or some kind of strong connection to the Orion Black League energy.

**Bashar:** You do. You do.

**Participant:** Is there... it feels very insistent in my consciousness. Is there anything...?

**Bashar:** That’s because you’re dealing with the idea of polarity very strongly, which was the theme of exploration of the Orion Consciousness millions of years ago. So you’re making that connection in order to actually investigate and deal with the issues and the themes of polarity and the Trinity in this life.

**Participant:** Is there any insight that I’m missing?

**Bashar:** Well, I already told you: You have to stop thinking of existence in a polarized way and start seeing it as a true balanced Trinity in order to experience the bubble reality of that vibration. That’s the balance point. That’s the way you transform the darkness into light: Is by understanding the frequency and the reality that is expressed as a Trinity by focusing on the balance point between the two polarities.

**Participant:** Yeah. I mean, sometimes I... it is not... it is not an accident. Nothing is. But it is of particular interest to note that it is not an accident when you deal with the idea of polarity being dark and light, that the beings that are aiding and creating a transformational hybridization agenda are Gray.

**Bashar:** Yeah. It’s not an accident. Ponder that.

**Participant:** Okay. Well, um, that’s all my questions. Thank you so much. I love you so much, and you’re the OG, and it’s amazing to talk with you.

**Bashar:** All right. Well, our unconditional love to you as well. Okay. See you, Bash. Thank you. Yes. You may. Good day.

***

# Conversation 9: The Virus, Belief Systems, and Hybridization

**Participant:** Good day. What would you like to discuss this day?

**Participant:** I want to discuss the idea of the Coronavirus. Yes. Since any every set of disease is resistance to cells, what kind of negative systems do you think that the planetary consciousness is holding to that it causes the physical, in its physical representation, the pain and respiratory difficulties?

**Bashar:** This is the idea of not being able to breathe. This is the idea of polluting your planet, of degrading Nature, of taking yourselves in a way that seems separate from Nature. The idea is to come back into your understanding that you are an extension of Nature—not that you live *in* Nature, that you *are* Nature. So that you can give yourself the freedom to be yourselves, which will allow you the freedom to breathe, the freedom to be who you truly are. It’s a reflection of the idea of resistance to the natural self.

**Participant:** I agree. And talking about that chakra, do you have any sort of like information or guidance practice to improve my ability to think better?

**Bashar:** Follow the Formula. Okay. Thanks. As precisely as you can. Every moment that you can. There is no simpler way to do it other than what you are attracted to. Use as a permission slip, but that’s up to you.

**Participant:** Okay. That sounds good. Anything? Thank you very much.

**Participant:** Uh, yeah. Little question. I wanted to... yes. Can you tell me about some experiences that I had with the Grays?

**Bashar:** I can tell you that you’re having them, but that’s because you’re part of the hybridization agenda.

**Participant:** I know. So the experiences that I’m talking about specifically are those in which I am going to sleep, and suddenly I found myself shaking, going in between astral planes. Yes. Sometimes. So what... how is that happening? Why?

**Bashar:** Well, the vibrational shift can sometimes be a little bit confusing to the physical consciousness. It may not understand exactly what energy it is experiencing, and therefore it may have a little bit of resistance to that vibration, which causes the shaking. But it’s a natural thing that happens because of the difference in the frequency between the reality you’re in now and the reality you’re shifted to in order to have those encounters.

**Participant:** Oh, that sounds great. Thank you very much.

**Bashar:** You’re very welcome. Good day.

***

# Conversation 10: Forgiveness, Emotions, and Alien Identity

**Participant:** Good day. Hello, Bashar. This is Kenna from Singapore. My question is: How does feelings of remorse with tears help in self-forgiveness? Could you explain more on this? Thank you very much.

**Bashar:** [Music] Goodbye. Well, again, as we have said, the idea is that when you have a fear-based belief, a negative belief in your consciousness, the physical body has to create a kind of representation of that belief in its chemical constituency, in its molecular structure. So when you are finally willing to let go of a fear-based belief, it’s not uncommon that you have to wash that chemical version out of your body. It will, more often than not, come out through tears of release, tears of forgiveness, tears of release of letting go. It can come out in other ways, such as the idea of perspiration. It can come out even in the idea of waste elimination. But more often than not, it will have the emotional component with it that allows you to feel the release emotionally, to let you know you are letting go of that particular fear-based belief. It’s washing out of your system through your tears.

**Participant:** Hi, Bashar. I’m Lucia, and I’m from Oran. My question is: Do you control your emotions, or do your emotions control you? Thank you, Bashar.

**Bashar:** Neither. We have them naturally as they occur. There is no control in either direction. The idea is that we feel what we feel when we feel it. But for us, it’s always positive, simply because that’s our choice of a vibrational reality to be in. We have let go long ago of negative belief systems, and therefore we do not have what you would typically refer to as negative emotions. But we simply allow them to occur. There’s no controlling of anything. We go with the flow because we trust that the flow knows exactly where we need to go, and what we feel and what we experience is exactly what we need to feel and experience at any given moment.

**Participant:** Hello, Bashar. My name is Lorina from Slovenia. Your future self of Daring, but... uh, in a conversation with people, a lot of times I heard you telling them, when they would ask you or tell you that they feel alien, you would tell them that they are not aliens, they are human beings because they live on Earth. But probably they have soul extensions in another dimension. Could you clarify that a little bit? Could you explain that a little bit further? Because throughout my whole life, I feel more like an alien than a human being. And I would like to know: What does the feeling of not belonging to Earth, of belonging to some other place, some other dimension, what does that feeling mean? Thank you.

**Bashar:** [Goodbye.] That feeling is representative of the fact that you’re changing your vibration to another version of Earth that right now feels alien to you. But you’re experiencing the shift through various versions of alternate parallel reality Earths, one that is more and more and more similar to the connections that you feel from us, from other alien civilizations. So you’re making an equivalency between that future Earth that you’re shifting to and an alien planet just because they feel so similar.

***

# Conversation 11: Manna, Timelines, and Nature on Essassani

**Participant:** Hey, Bashar, and greetings from Tel Aviv. This is Michael, and I’m very, very happy to be asking you a question. The word "Manna" in Hebrew means portion or ration of food, and I’m assuming it’s derived from the word Manna or Mana from the Bible, in the Book of Exodus, Chapter 16, where the Jews had food sent to them from the sky for their nourishment while they were in the desert leaving Egypt. My question is: From your perspective, what was the nutritional makeup of the Manna? Actually, was it like food such as rice and meat, or was it something else entirely? Thank you and much love.

**Bashar:** There was no meat involved. It is certainly closer to the idea that you call Rice, but it is more like a wafer-type substance that is nutritionally balanced for human beings at that time and was given to them by the Extraterrestrial race that was guiding them. You might reference it nowadays as something close to a superfood.

**Participant:** Hey, Bashar. It’s Teresa in Long Beach. Thank you so much for everything that you’ve done for me. I’d like to ask you a little bit about Timeline Number Three from the Parallel Reality Wheel, where the Indian Federation retains control of North America. Can you talk a little bit about that timeline? Does the African slave trade happen at all? Thank you so much.

**Bashar:** Well, there are also variations of that timeline. So Timeline Number Three that we mentioned can also have a number of variations within it. The one we were referring to simply is that the European explorers never completely gained a foothold in what you now know to be the Americas, and therefore allowed the idea of various Indian tribes to expand and fully occupy the North, Central, and South American continents. Of course, it’s not referred to as America; it is simply referred to in various tribal languages as "The Place of the People." In that one particular timeline we were referring to, there still was a European slave trade, but the idea that it was maintained only within the idea of Europe and extended to some degree over into Asia. Of course, there are parallel versions of this that did not experience and do not experience the idea of the slave trade at all. So it just depends upon which version of the parallel realities you are dealing with. But just about anything you can imagine is one real reality or one real timeline.

**Participant:** Hi, Bash. This is Tom from England. I was just wondering how the nature and the vegetation differs on your planet than it does on Essassani, such as the trees or the plants or even the rivers. If you could share anything about that, I would appreciate it.

**Bashar:** Well, again, it has a symbiotic component. There is no predation at all in that sense. Animals do not eat plants, but they may exchange energies in a variety of biological ways. And even plant-to-plant, there is no predation. Certain kinds of plants, like tall trees, may allow other kinds of plants, like what we have referred to as the Prismatic Flowers, to climb up on vine-like structures in order to reach more sunlight. But the idea is that they do not harm the trees that they are climbing up, as some vines on your planet may choke other forms of vegetation. So everything in our world is basically symbiotic and is developed to a point where there is always an exchange of energy that is never detrimental to each life form doing the exchange. Now, there are different varieties. As I’ve said, there are these Prismatic Flowers that kind of would look sort of like stained glass to you: Large, bio-bed leaves that are like stained glass, through which the sunlight passes and also creates kind of rainbow effects on the forest floors. So there are those kinds of plants that exist on our planet, along with some that are similar to yours, but some that are very different. You can see an example of that in the documentary *First Contact* that was done. There is a depiction of those stained-glass flowers in there.

***

# Conversation 12: Live Stream Q&A (Contact, Landing Pads, Hybrids, Eye of the Needle)

**Participant:** Hello, Tania. Good day.

**Bashar:** Good day. Here are our live stream questions from our viewers. All right. Please proceed.

**Question:** What is the primary purpose and benefit of ET contact?

**Bashar:** Well, twofold: In your direction and in our direction. Obviously, the information that we are sharing with all of you can make a huge difference in how you experience your reality. By applying the information we have shared, you can create your lives to be lives of joy, love, creativity in a much more positive way, full of synchronicity. You can allow yourselves to be more of yourselves, your true selves, aligning with your true vibration and in communication with your Higher Minds much more clearly. For us, it expands our family, for we get to experience through you more ways that existence has of expressing itself, and thus it expands our understanding of all that creation and existence can be. The idea, then, is that we get to form new realities together, to explore new ideas together that we may not have, or you may not have, considered before. So there is an expansion of ability, of awareness, of family, of experience, and thus it benefits us both in our direction and in your direction as well, should you choose to apply, should you choose to be open to contact. But that’s up to you.

**Question:** One individual says: "I really want to be in contact with an ET, and at the same time, I feel that unconsciously I have a lot of opposition to it. I have a great fear of being in contact with the wrong energies. How can I let go of this fear and how can I embrace contact?"

**Bashar:** Perhaps it will help you to understand, as we have explained, that this is physics: Like vibration to like vibration. Therefore, what you put out is what you get back. If you are afraid of having negative experiences, that is what will probably ensure that you have a negative experience. If you let go of that fear, you will be changing your vibration to a state where it won’t be physically possible to have an experience other than that which is reflective of the positive state you have chosen to be in. You cannot have an opposite experience to the vibrational state you choose to be in. You can only have an experience that is the equivalent of that state. So by being excited, being in a positive state, should you suddenly have a negative experience, it won’t be because you’re in the positive state; it will be because you have left the positive state and changed your vibrational energy to that of fear, thus attracting what it is you do fear. So allow yourself to understand that you’re completely in control of that mechanism, and that the fear itself is what increases the probability of having negative experiences. Of course, they won’t be with us or beings like us, who only operate in positive ways. You’ll simply be attracting other things, most likely not even extraterrestrials, that simply operate on a lower frequency. So the idea is to understand that we are giving you an opportunity to experience our vibration in these exchanges, and if you allow yourself to truly experience our vibration and choose to match it, it’s not possible for you to have a negative experience.

**Question:** One of my highest excitements and passions is building a landing pad for a scout craft. What diameter does it need to be, and can you provide us with any information on how a landing pad should be constructed? And can small groups then go to that location and potentially experience contact?

**Bashar:** Potentially, yes. Of course, it will depend upon the individual vibrations within the group and the collective vibration of the group, and of course, when it would be the appropriate timing for all concerned—not only with the group, but for those who might even be aware of the fact that the group might be having open contact. So there are a lot of factors that will determine the probability of the actual contact experience. Nevertheless, landing pads would be best if they are circular, 100 ft in diameter, raised a little bit above the ground if possible, but it doesn’t have to be, though it should be something solid. So it can be the idea of what you would call concrete. It can be the idea of what you would call rammed earth. And if you wish to have the platform raised at all, perhaps the idea of about a foot to two feet at most in thickness. And in a flat, open area where there are very few trees around or anything else that would interfere with the landing of the craft, especially anything electrical or anything like that, or that the craft itself might interfere with should it be in close approximation to the idea of some of your electrical technology. So best if left natural in a way. It can be stone, it can be concrete, it can be earth, but must be as flat as you can make it, as solid as you can make it.

**Question:** In the *First Contact* documentary, representations of the Essassani people depict your eyes as being larger than ours, with enlarged dark pupils and having a similar white area around the iris as humans do. Some artists have depicted the area surrounding your iris as black, not white, and some depict your eyes as solid black with no visible iris. Are there actual variations in your eyes like these in your people, and do your people have different colored irises?

**Bashar:** What is being depicted in many cases when you have a hybrid with all black and no whites around the iris is a very early version that is closer to the idea of the Grays. My people, at this point, do not have black around the iris. We have white around the iris, like you do. The color of our irises can range somewhat. Some of them can be dark, which makes the idea of the entire eye—iris and pupil—look large. But the idea is that most of us have either gray, bluish... sometimes slightly different colors may be in there, very faint and very pale. But most of us, you would see having relatively gray or bluish irises around a very large pupil. But the depictions of hybrids such as myself with all black around and no whites around the iris—at this point, that is not an accurate depiction.

**Question:** And they say, you know, the eyes are the window to the soul. Yeah. And we’ve noticed that in the evolution of your eyes. How is that related to the evolution of your consciousness? Big eyes, more of the soul showing through?

**Bashar:** If you want to remain poetic, you can use that analogy as a direct correlation to a representation, symbolically, of the expanded consciousness that we present to you. Now, of course, the idea of our eyes in general being larger is also a holdover from the evolution of the Grays transmuting themselves and being in very dark environments where the eyes needed to grow so they could see in dim light, being that they had destroyed their world and a lot of sunlight didn’t get through. Generations upon generations. So in their mutation from Human to Gray over time, their eyes enlarged while they went underground, because a lot of their power could not be directed necessarily toward lighting; they had to use it in other ways for survival. And therefore, their environment for a long time was relatively dim. And as they mutated themselves, they gave themselves the capacity to absorb less light and see better in the dark. Hence, they grew the eyes a little bit larger to capture more light. And therefore, because we are genetically connected to them, some of the idea of the larger eyes are a holdover. But they’re also, as I said, energetically symbolic and representative and reflective of the idea, as you say, eyes being the windows of the soul, that we also exhibit a larger consciousness, more of our soul self, and also have the ability with our eyes to see more clearly beyond the physical into other dimensions.

**Question:** And do you still have eye movement?

**Bashar:** Of course, we have eye movement. Of course.

**Question:** And then, since you’re telepathic, tele-empathic, what is the function of your ears? Why do you not have ears if you’re tele-empathic? Are there not other sounds in reality? Are there not the sounds of animals and the sounds of the ocean and the sounds of rain and thunder and so on and so forth?

**Bashar:** Even though our ears may be smaller now than yours in general, there are still many things to hear. And remember, again, of course, we’re not necessarily tele-empathic with every single species we encounter. Therefore, sometimes we need to hear what they are saying in order to understand them, in the same way that you speak to each other. So it’s not like being telepathic with ourselves in our own society negates the idea that there are still many things we may need to actually physically hear in reality.

**Question:** Will you update us on the precursors on Earth, and particularly how many there are at any given time, the percentage ratio of them being recognized by humans, and how this may correlate to contact?

**Bashar:** At any given time, there may be, depending upon the phase that is going on of the hybridization agenda and the acclimatization portion of the agenda, anywhere from say 25 to 300 precursors on your planet in different places. Some of them briefly, some of them a little longer. The percentage of humans that at this point may recognize them is only about 3 to 5%. The idea, again, is that, of course, the more often they present themselves and walk past you or are somewhere nearby, the more that humans recognize that there is something different about them, and that percentage increases. It increases the probability of contact because you start recognizing and becoming familiar with the vibration that they are giving off of extraterrestrial energy.

**Question:** What is the purpose of the hybridization program? How are the hybrid children different from us, and are they less emotional than a fully human being?

**Bashar:** Well, first of all, not many people on your planet are actually yet fully human. The idea, again, of your evolution is that it will take you closer to being like the hybrid children. They are, in many ways, tele-empathic as well, but they can speak. They are similar to you in certain ways. Some appear to be more like you; some appear to be a little less like you. Some might have slightly larger eyes, again, as we have discussed recently. Some of them may not look too much different than you. The idea of the hybridization agenda, as we have explained, is not only for the continuation and perpetuation of the civilization that destroyed itself by creating hybrids that can carry on their culture—since they lost the ability to reproduce, they had to find viable human DNA in order to create hybrids that would continue their society—but also, the purpose is to, as we are doing, share information with all of you so that you don’t necessarily go down the same path that the Grays went down in their alternate reality that allowed them, as previous humans, to destroy their version of Earth. So that you don’t necessarily have to experience that. So it works again in both directions: Both for the perpetuation of an extraterrestrial or alternate reality culture, and also for the potential preservation of your own, in helping to give you opportunities to guide yourself in a more positive direction than you might otherwise have gone, since the two histories are very similar. What they did, you are doing and have done in many ways. They took it farther and destroyed themselves. And by sharing that history and information with you, it is up to you to decide how to use that information so that you don’t necessarily go down the same destructive path.

**Question:** And you said the Yel will be the first to have contact with us?

**Bashar:** The Yel will be the first hybrid society to have contact openly with you. There may be others before that, but the Yel, and of course, the children are the hybrids that look most like you. They are the fifth iteration of the hybrids; we are the third. They are the fifth, and so they are closer in appearance to you. So it will be easier for you, in a sense, to interact with them, being that they are similar enough to you that you won’t necessarily fear them.

**Question:** And I remember one time you talking about there’s sort of different timelines, so that when we interact with them, they may be different ages and not necessarily all one age.

**Bashar:** Yes, of course. The children grow at different rates, just as yours do. But also, don’t we tap into them at different ages depending on the purpose of a particular interaction?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** That is done sometimes as well. It just depends upon what’s appropriate for someone to experience in their interaction with a hybrid child as to what age you may meet them at. And ultimately, when they come to your planet and start living among you in the years to come, they will again be whatever age it’s appropriate for you to interact with them.

**Question:** Great. Um, there’s a question about ET healing. Many people have reported having healing experiences with ETs in dream time, experiences like having negative energy drained from your body or having advanced technology and mind power used to heal major and minor injuries. Can you elaborate on what is occurring and how this healing is taking place?

**Bashar:** It is no different than what we have described about the experience you may have with any healer, including healers in your human society. A healer gives off, whether it be biologically, naturally, or technologically, a frequency that is representative of the healed state. And therefore, if the person is willing to allow their own vibration, their own energy, to match that state, they will heal themselves. That’s the technique. That’s the physics of it. It doesn’t matter in what form it comes, nor who it comes from. That’s how it works.

**Question:** Are they actually using technology, or is it just our brains translating what’s occurring into instrumentation or technology?

**Bashar:** It can be both. It can be either. It depends upon the Extraterrestrial source.

**Question:** And how far above Brock is your ship currently?

**Bashar:** About 9,000 of your miles.

**Question:** Okay. All right. So, um, if the pandemic has extended until March 2021, so far, so far, does the "Eye of the Needle" extend to that date too? And if not, when does the Eye of the Needle end? And can we pass through it even if we still have some unresolved issues?

**Bashar:** You may bring some issues to still work on on the other side of the passage. But again, it’s very important to strip away as much as you possibly can to make the passage more smooth, more effortless, more easy for you, so that you don’t necessarily have that much to deal with on the other side. And again, even if you strip away a lot of the negativity, there may still be things that are not relevant for you that also need to be let go of during that passage or on the other side to help streamline you. So it’s not always just about letting go of fear-based or negative beliefs; it’s also about letting go of those things that are simply not relevant for you now. The idea of the Eye of the Needle is that it is a passage that allows you to deal with these things, to go within to find those things that don’t work for you, that are not aligned with you, and let them go. So even though your COVID experience is part of the experience of the Eye of the Needle, the overall passage actually extends all the way to somewhere in 2023. But the idea is that you don’t necessarily have to experience similar things to your pandemic in order to still be in the Eye of the Needle. No one is saying that the Eye of the Needle has to be something that you always experience in what you would call a negative way, or that negative ideas have to be experienced in it. It’s about taking a look at yourselves and really transforming your vibrational energy so that when you do come out the other end of that passage, you really are quite different people, ready to really prepare yourselves for open contact and all of that implies in terms of the kind of reality you really want to experience. So the Eye of the Needle really goes all the way into, and maybe almost to the end of, your year of 2023. And there will be many different kinds of events that will occur between now and then, not only the idea of COVID, but of course, that can alleviate at a certain point, and you can still be interacting or experiencing other things that will put you in touch with what you need to be put in touch with to transform yourselves. Again, it doesn’t necessarily mean that all of the experiences in the Eye of the Needle will necessarily be something that you would consider to be negative, but it is a passageway that exists until such time as approximately two years before the window of open contact. Because after that time, different things will have to happen in order for you to really be fully prepared for the beginning of the window of contact. But the Eye of the Needle will generally fade out somewhere about two years before the window in 2025.

**Question:** Great. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Yes. There will also be another transformation taking place within how, at that point, we will be able to deliver information to all of you. Because the idea is that, in our society and with the First Contact Specialists, there is an allowance of communicating in a certain way with a society, with a civilization, that is based on the cycle within that civilization that represents a complete transformational cycle, based on the timing of that civilization and the consciousness of that civilization. For your civilization, as we have talked about this in the past, the cycle of your societal transformation is 40 years. You see this mentioned sometimes in a variety of ways within some of your ancient literature, so on and so forth. You know, things like 40 years in the desert, so on and so forth. That’s the amount of time it takes for a real, complete transformation of human society from one level to another. Therefore, the end of your year of 2023 will be the end of 40 years of us channeling in this way to your civilization. After that, the way in which we deliver information to you will change, because it will be now more keyed and more focused on the idea of really taking the time to prepare you for the beginning of the window of open contact. So there are three of your years remaining for the kind of information we’re delivering now that gives you the opportunity to change yourselves, to change how you experience your reality, to apply the Formula, the instruction manual, in your lives in a way that will truly prepare you for the change to come at the end of your year of 2023, to absorb information in a different way from us for the purpose of really strengthening and increasing the probability of open contact for those who wish to align with that energy.

**Question:** Okay. Um, you’ve talked about the COVID pandemic having been extended due to our behavior, having choices. Yes. Choices, right? So since our beliefs create our reality, and what we are seeing is actually other versions of reality being seen through a glass wall, how can our behavior be a factor?

**Bashar:** Your behavior determines what side of the wall you’re actually on. Because remember, action is the language of physical reality. And therefore, if you say you are of a certain frequency but are not necessarily acting like you’re of that frequency, then you may be on the other side of the wall. Plus, it’s important to realize that many people, while they may wish to be on one side or the other, aren’t necessarily as clear within themselves about what their true beliefs and fears are that may put them on one side or the other that they may not even realize therein. So it’s very important to be very clear about the idea of your belief systems: What you truly believe—not wish you believed, but truly know to be true for you—and how your actions might align with that. Because sometimes things that may seem to be representative of what you don’t prefer may actually be the path of least resistance for you if you’re honest about what you really believe is possible for you to experience. When you observe what other people may also be choosing, you have to be really clear that you either are or are not a part of something, are or are not in alignment with a consensus belief system. But sometimes, just going with a consensus is actually not only the path of least resistance for you, but acts as an example to others to allow them to also be true and in alignment with the path of least resistance for them. That may be true for the collective society that you’ve agreed to be a part of. So you have to have real, deep, honest self-examination and investigation as to what’s really true for you, for you to really know for certain what side of that glass barrier you’re actually on.

**Question:** And just from a foundational perspective, the side of the glass wall that most of us are at least moving in the direction of through our attention is the idea: How do you think of other people, and how your behavior affects other people? Like, what’s your foundation?

**Bashar:** Yes. Because, again, the idea is that if you recognize there are people on one side that are part of the consensus reality where a certain behavior would actually be best for them, by countermanding that on your side of the glass wall—because they can still see you—you may be sending them a signal that they don’t necessarily have to choose what it is they’re choosing on their side, and thus you may be sending them an image that actually would be detrimental for them were they to mimic your behavior on your side. So it’s not just about the idea of you; it’s about the idea of you still realizing that people can see you through the glass wall, just like you can see them. And by taking the actions that are most representative of what is also in best service to them is also part of the idea. Right? And it’s just a basic ethos of not harming others. Correct? Basically, yes. The idea of doing what is in the best interest of all, and understanding what kind of an example you set for those that may not necessarily be as clear as you are about what it is you prefer to be true, so that you at least give them the best opportunity to get through an experience in a way that you know might actually be of service to them. Because you can recognize, from your position on one side of the wall, what position they have chosen on their side of the wall, and are helping them to choose the path of least resistance that actually works for them. But again, all of this takes a lot of clarity, a lot of discernment about what is appropriate. Because sometimes you can give them a different image to encourage them to also perhaps match the frequency on your side of the wall, but at the same time, you have to also know that not many people on your planet are capable of understanding how to do that. Therefore, it’s like teaching a child to say, "All right, well, this is the behavior that you need to exhibit now, because I understand the limits of your belief system, and I will help you with that by being an example of the behavior that you need to exhibit. At the same time, I will encourage you to understand how to change your belief system so that you don’t necessarily have to exhibit that particular behavior if it’s really not in your best interest ultimately, as you mature." So it takes a great deal of maturity and a great deal of discernment to understand how to orchestrate the living example that you choose to be to others, to help them in the best way, to be of service to them in the best way, to allow them to go through the Eye of the Needle in the most effortless way.

**Question:** Thank you. Yes. Um, because of parallel realities and the amount of people that believe the virus was man-made, does that also mean that there’s a parallel reality where the virus was man-made, and then another parallel reality where it was created from the destruction of ecological systems, and anything in between?

**Bashar:** Yes. All those parallel realities exist. But this is what we’re going to say about that: It doesn’t matter. Because the idea, whether or not you want to say that the virus was man-made, or whether the virus is simply an opportunistic organism that was created, or at least was unleashed because of the damage done to the environment... what’s the difference in terms of human responsibility? None. So the idea is to simply focus on the idea of taking more responsibility for the choices that are made. Because whether or not the destruction of your environment unleashed the virus, or whether or not it was man-made and was accidentally or purposely unleashed, matters not when you understand that the bottom line to all of those scenarios is to take responsibility for the idea of the acceleration of the virus, since it is still connected in some way, shape, or form to the choices that Humanity has made. Therefore, by taking some responsibility in some way, shape, or form—it doesn’t matter what the real origin is—it matters that you understand how to take responsibility and how to make different choices by learning the lessons that you learn by taking responsibility and having a different reality because you then choose to do things differently than you have done before. No matter what course was taken, it still ends up being the same understanding.

**Question:** Okay. Thank you. Yes. Um, one individual is saying: "I’m confused about the real difference between choosing the reality we want and denying what is. They are paradoxically opposed. For example, in subjects concerning evil forces on Earth and beyond, how can we really choose what we want without being in denial of what is?"

**Bashar:** All right. Well, first of all, the opposition that you’re sensing is because of the terminologies that you’re choosing to identify these things with. It’s not about what you want; it’s about what you need, first of all. And you’re not denying the present by preferring a different reality. The only way you can actually experience a preferential reality is not by denying what is, but by using it in the most creative and positive way. That’s why it’s so important in the Formula, in the fourth step, to stay in a positive state even if what manifests is something you don’t prefer. Because only by staying in a positive state will you be capable of getting a benefit from it, of learning a lesson from it, and letting it go away because you’ve used it up for the purpose it was there. Because you have to know that even if something manifests you don’t prefer, it’s got to be there for a reason that could serve you. Only by staying in a positive state will you figure out how it can be serving you. By going into a fear-based state and denying what’s happening in the present, it can’t serve you, and you only get quote-unquote "stuck" in the negative spiral, thinking that it doesn’t belong there, when in fact it does for some reason, but you get to determine what that reason is, positively or negatively. So it’s not about wanting a different reality, although preference can come into it. But preference is a non-judgmental, neutral state. It’s simply a recognition of what is and isn’t vibrationally compatible with you. So drop the wanting, because wanting is often the product of the negative ego thinking it knows best what the outcome should look like, when it absolutely has no clue whatsoever most of the time. But if you understand how to focus on getting what you need—what you need in life—that comes to you will always fulfill you and always propel you in the direction of the preferred reality. So it’s about living in the moment, not denying what’s happening, but using what’s happening to springboard yourself toward the direction of a more positive, preferred reality. That’s how those two things are connected. But when you say things like "wanting" and "denying," you’re creating the dichotomy, you’re creating the polarization in the definitions that you’re using.

**Question:** So this idea that you’re looking at something through a glass wall, and at the same time, you’re using what you’re seeing through the glass wall to impact your current behavior... yes, you’re making choices based on what you do and don’t prefer, based on what you’re seeing others choose. So where is the line between denial and something else? Because denial would take you out of a higher frequency, right?

**Bashar:** Yes. And that’s what we’re saying. If you’re in denial about what’s happening, you can’t use it to your benefit. Therefore, by not being in denial and accepting that what’s happening is happening—again, doesn’t mean you endorse it, doesn’t mean you condone it, doesn’t mean that you’re vibrationally compatible with something you don’t prefer—but you have to understand that what you’re experiencing and what you’re observing is there for a reason that can serve you. So it’s not about denying what you’re seeing; it’s about using what you’re seeing in a positive way to propel you, by contrast, in a direction that you prefer that is different than what you’re seeing. That’s how you use it and propel yourself in the direction of the reality that you prefer, not want.

**Question:** Another individual wrote: "I’ve been going into deep meditation, visualizing planet Earth as already healed in the present, with nature thriving. I’ve tried to visualize a loving, abundant energy on the planet and a light aura surrounding it. Does this visualization create a speeding up of the vibration, the positive vibration on the planet, and help to heal the planet? Is it purposeful and useful to do this?"

**Bashar:** Yes. Because the idea of being in that state, the state that that kind of visualization puts you in, can make you—if you choose to match that state in your physical actions—will make you a living example, an active living example, to others that they can choose to be in that state too. But the idea is that you have to match what you’re visualizing and the energy state that it puts you in with actual physical actions that go along with that, or you’re not going to be speaking the language of physical reality to anyone else. They won’t see you as a living example if your actions don’t match the vibration of your visualization.

**Question:** And our last, last question: There are more than seven billion people on Earth, and only a small percentage that are aware of Bashar. Is there anything special that relates to all the people that listen to or know Bashar?

**Bashar:** For the most part, with very, very few exceptions, those that find our particular vibration and delivery of information—most likely, and doesn’t mean we’re the only one, but most likely—will have some connection to the hybridization agenda.

**Participant:** Thank you, Bashar. Thank you, too. Really enjoyed our communication, and I’m sure... thank you from everybody else who’s been listening. Thank you, Tania.

***

# Closing Meditation

**Bashar:**  Relax, breathe deeply as you relax. Recall that this is the beginning of the training.

This is the beginning of the allowance, specifically from our perspective, that will allow you to increase the probability of contact. But now, in this meditative form, it’s about the vibrations themselves and getting in touch, allowing yourselves to get in touch with any hesitation, with any fear-based beliefs, with any vibration that will not necessarily allow you to experience being conducive, being in alignment, with being in harmony with the idea of contact with beings from other realms and other realities that may be foreign to you, may be very different than yours, that you may experience as unknowns, uncertainties, hesitations, survival mechanisms, fear-based beliefs, assumptions, or insistences about the way you think things ought to go. Just let yourself divest yourself of all of these expectations and just know that it will be what it will be that will serve you best if you allow yourself to relax into the knowingness that you are being assisted, you are being guided, and you are being loved and led, or guided, if you wish, by your choice, to a new reality in which interaction, open interaction, open contact, exchange, communication, and communion will occur and is occurring in that reality.

Now, allow yourselves to simply drift toward it on the current of your own flow that knows where you need to go. But pay attention on that journey to anything that feels like the slightest hesitation to move in that direction. And then stay with it for the moment. Let yourself tread water in that flow for the moment and ponder what belief system would be causing the hesitation. It is all about staying in that moment, not rushing forward, not being eager to be elsewhere, but knowing that everything you need to know is here and now. Let yourself breathe it in and let yourself feel the refreshment that comes to you from that deep, all-knowing breath. That you will get where you need to be exactly when you need to be there. There is no hurry. There is no rush. The flow knows not only where you need to go, but when, and the eddies and currents within it that might make it seem for the moment that you are remaining in place are exactly what they need to be and exactly letting you need to be where you need to be at that moment to experience that eddy, that little whirlpool that keeps you where you are until such time as you relax into it and it carries you forward on the flow once more. Drink deeply of those waters within yourself and feel the refreshing energy that comes into you. Know that you’re automatically navigating yourself into a reality, bit by bit, every day and every way, that is more and more conducive, more and more capable of allowing you to experience the idea of contact with us and those like us in a new reality, a different reality, not the one you’re in now. Because this contact will never happen in the reality that you’re in now. It will happen in a different reality. It is happening in a different reality right now, and you are drifting toward it more and more. But you must allow your vibration to go along with these changes as you float through different parallel versions of Earth and not be afraid of the unknown. Do the exercises and the permission slips that we have suggested and encourage you to do if you wish. They will help you go with this flow more easily, so that it truly is felt like a path of least resistance, so that it becomes no resistance at all. No resistance to being your true self, which is the only version of you that we’re capable of interacting with. That which is more truly in alignment with who you really are. Come to that reality, for that reality exists here and now, even though it may momentarily be invisible to you. Let yourself drink it in. Drink of those waters and breathe in that air and feel refreshed and reinvigorated and light. Feel the light within you that lights your way. And feel yourself drifting more and more toward the reality as we beckon you forth, as your own future self beckons you forward. Allow yourself to drift forward. Allow yourself to drift, dream, for you will know that you will one day awaken in this new reality in which we already exist, in which we already coexist, in which we are already communicating openly, face to face, when you no longer fear our face because you no longer fear your own. You no longer fear Humanity. You no longer fear yourselves. You no longer experience the result of that fear, and all the reflections that come back to you are those of light and love and knowingness. Know yourself. That is the key to knowing us. For we are only other reflections of you. Know yourself to know us. Know yourself to know us. And you will come, come out of the dark without fear, and you will be in the dark without fear, for the darkness is only the unknown that contains all the mysteries that you seek the answers to. Allow yourself to drift and dream and breathe gently and easily and deeply. Allow yourself to drift to us as you drift more toward yourselves in light and love and in peace.

Our unconditional love to you all. Our open invitation to you all. Increase your probability of contact by being yourself. And welcome home. Welcome home. Welcome home.

Allow your lights and music to soften and drift in the darkness, at peace, knowing that you will illuminate what you need to illuminate in perfect timing, in a gentle way that will reveal what needs to be revealed of us in the way that works best for you. 