---
heading: Part 1
title: "Becoming a Galactic Citizen Part 1"
date: 2022-11-19
description: ""
icon: "Bashar"
c: "purple"
showdate: true
weight: 621
---



## The Window

This is part one. The window. During this transmission, we will be explaining exercises that you can actively participate in to help accelerate and increase the probability of open contact in the years to come. And we will have a special meditation at the conclusion of part one to help you draw in more closely to your reality other realities that are present all around you all the time but are invisible to you for the most part. But if you are willing to participate in the ideas and exercises that we will outline this day in this transmission, you will find over the days, weeks, months, and years that you will be capable of experiencing more indications, more closeness to the idea, more frequency of experiences that have to do with the setting up of contact in an open way with your society from a variety of other civilizations.

Now that this is your year of 2023 being the beginning of the window of open contact, it is your opportunity to accelerate these energies, accelerate these probabilities because it is now in your hands. We, those who are open to making contact with all of you from my civilization and other civilizations, now put it in your hands to demonstrate your readiness to participate more and more in a variety of ways to ultimately become a member of the galactic society in the years to come. But it starts here today. It starts now with us in this way for you to increase the probabilities of experiencing that reality over the course of the time of the window of open contact.

So as we delivered in our last transmission, the idea is to understand that everything we have shared with you up to this moment has been metaphorically for the purpose of simply getting you to open the blind in your house and be able to look out the window and see that there is a vaster universe than just what you have been used to living in your own limited house of planet Earth. So now this day we will begin the exercises that will allow you to truly begin to call forth and call down the idea of more contact, more interaction, more awareness, more knowledge, more information regarding the different civilizations that are connecting to your world and are assisting with the idea of accelerating your vibration toward the goal of open contact.

We thank you for allowing us to share at this time these ideas to help you participate in our galactic society more openly in the years to come. And in return for this gift, I ask you now: in what way may we continue to be of service to you? You may begin with your dialogues and your questions if you wish.

***

# Conversation 1: Staying in the Moment and Synchronicity

**Question:** Hello Bashar and to you good day. And as you say on your planet, happy New Year. Thank you. Uh, it's been an exciting year last year so I'm half expecting this one to be 10 times more exciting uh because basically and honestly the formula works and this is what I wanted to share with you. That's why we give it to you because it does work. It makes things simple. It does. It really does. One of the things that has helped me the most is the realization that we can um come out of our comfort zone without actually needing to look at the limitations that we've imposed upon ourselves. It's like the excitement pushes us forward on its own. It has a momentum and it will continue to accelerate and create a momentum and an inertia eventually making it actually more challenging to go in a negative direction. That's actually true. I have been able to recognize my behavior changing in different setups but uh basically something that I have been uncomfortable with before it really has uh helped me understand myself more and change the way that I respond to things.

**Bashar:** All right. Congratulations. Thank you.

**Question:** And um one... do you have a question? Yes I do. One of them is if you can give us an idea of how or maybe an exercise as well of how we can stay better in the moment? Because what I've noticed is that once we start coming out of our comfort zone we do tend to well lose perspective or not really lose perspective but forget what um what we're doing and lost in the moment. But at the same time if we realize that we are um out in the open and we don't know what's going to happen we tend to start thinking how things might go wrong.

**Bashar:** Well that's not a tendency, it's a choice. And that's the thing to understand. And that's how you stay in the moment: first by not giving your power away by talking about it as if it's a tendency which implies you have absolutely no control over it, as if it's something automatic. The idea is that you have to always realize in every moment that you feel out of your comfort zone that whatever feelings do come up are the result of something that you believe to be true about yourself in that circumstance. Therefore there's always an opportunity to investigate what that belief would have to be. What the belief would have to be telling you, what story it would be telling you to make you feel like you are out of your comfort zone. So take that opportunity to explore it. Know that you are choosing it in a sense by choosing to hold on to a belief that may be out of alignment with who you prefer to be. And that gives you the power to stay in the moment. And in that moment what you do is spend time examining why that belief is there, why you continue to choose to buy into it, and work through that with honest self-investigation. And doing so will keep you firmly in the moment. Starting to think of things as simply a tendency is what takes you out of the moment because it takes you out of the idea of the control you have over what beliefs you buy into. So spending time doing the investigation of why you feel uncomfortable, knowing that that's only based on something you believe to be true, is what keeps you in the moment because then it gives you something to do in that moment by investigating why you're buying into a belief that doesn't work for you. Does that answer your question?

**Question:** Yes it does. It actually um it goes beyond that because it's uh shows where my mistake is in my mind mindset but it also uh brings up another thing that I've been wondering yes about um sorry let me just formulate the question.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Question:** And I lost it. I'm sorry. The uh this tends to happen when I get excited.

**Bashar:** Well again it's not a tendency, it's a choice. Uh-huh. Okay. It's the result of something you believe to be true. So take a moment, relax, take a breath, allow it to come back into your consciousness.

**Question:** Oh yes. How... um... everything that does happen is actually a synchronistic point that will help us move further into the direction that we've chosen, correct?

**Bashar:** If you use it that way, yes. Everything that happens is synchronicity but you still have the free will to choose how to relate to it: positively or negatively or neutrally. So it's always about us being in the correct mindset that we would prefer to be. It is that simple because you are creating your physical reality experience as a projection of consciousness. So whatever you define it to be is going to be what you experience cuz it's all within you.

**Question:** Okay. And what about the time lag? That when we set ourselves to do or achieve something we need some time for actually to see it. And I don't actually mean time to see it or but more like get the result that we're actually looking for as an initial... right?

**Bashar:** Well again watch out for your insistence in that because it may have to manifest slightly differently or very differently than you imagined it would. And the idea again is that the time lag is there for you to allow yourself to investigate what you truly believe, to understand what it is you truly need to attract in your life, to learn the difference and the discernment between what your ego negatively may want and what you truly need for yourself. So use the time wisely in that sense to do some self-investigation. Don't be insistent on the idea of it hurrying up. Understand that it will happen in perfect timing if it is something that you truly need in your life. But watch out for the idea of your insistence in what you think is supposed to happen.

**Question:** So in a way can we say that the time lag is something that is provoked by our negative belief that what is happening now isn't what we need?

**Bashar:** It's not necessarily a negative belief. It may be the negative idea of synchronicity saying "this is not your path right now." You may need to learn other things. You may need to learn other things in the meantime that will actually give you a fuller appreciation of whatever it is that does ultimately manifest. So again you can't look at the idea as if something has gone wrong but you can look at it as what we call "Red Light" synchronicity. Which is not necessarily a negative thing per se in terms of its effect, telling you that look for something you can act on right now that is representative of your excitement. But right now even though this thing may be representative of your excitement, it may not be the correct step to take next. So look for the next step you are able to take. And that way between the red light and green light synchronicity it will guide you unwaveringly along the correct path. And it's all connected to what we've initially chosen to experience. Yes, it's all connected to your themes of exploration. And that's why you have to watch out for insistence because sometimes even though you may not know it, there are things that may be more important than what you think is supposed to happen that really need to happen for you to gain the growth in your soul and your spirit that you actually initially asked for.

**Question:** Yes. I've noticed that it's better to be more open to what's happening rather than being biased of what I'm supposed to do in a specific moment.

**Bashar:** Exactly. Yes. And it's definitely more helpful as well with being present in the moment.


## Oumuamua and Light Language

**Question:** Hi Bashar. In October 2017 astronomers on Earth observed a large interstellar object approximately 650 ft long enter the solar system, go around the Sun, and then leave the solar system. They called it Oumuamua. Scientists believe that this was an asteroid while other people speculate that this is a ghost ship, essentially debris from an alien spacecraft just floating through space. Can you please let us know what this object really was and what's the story behind it?

**Bashar:** It is an asteroid. But synchronistically it brought your attention to the idea that your particular corner of the universe can be visited by extraterrestrial sources. So it was an asteroid but it acted as a representation to get your minds a little more elevated into the idea of the possibility of imminent contact.

**Question:** Uh about five years ago I started uh talking light language and it seems like it has exploded and have become very big very fast. So could you speak a little bit about light language? What it is, what is the purpose of it, and also what is uh my role in it?

**Bashar:** The idea of light language exists on a higher plane and allows you to get familiar with the feeling of extending your consciousness into higher frequencies. It's not about the idea of necessarily expressing light language in physical reality because it's not a language that's understandable in physical reality. But it's the idea of getting you used to how to translate the feeling into something that will make sense in the language that you actually speak in physical terms. So it's an interim step to get you used to higher vibrational frequencies. It can also help increase the idea of your telepathic awareness. But the idea ultimately is to translate it and step it down like a transformer into an expression of language and information that actually makes sense to the people that you would share the vibration with. Do you understand?

**Question:** Uh maybe I would have to listen back to this to to understand probably. But is it um do I use it for my own sake or for other people or for the Earth?

**Bashar:** You can use it for other people or the Earth as long as it's simply the idea of letting the vibration wash over people. In other words, the idea is that light language on a higher plane does not translate into actual understandable words in your reality. So it's not about simply using the language in physical terms as if people would understand what you're saying. It's about letting you get used to higher frequencies that you then need to translate in some way shape or form, whether it's in normal quote-unquote language or not, or some other expression of giving energy to people or the Earth through the activities that you participate in. So it's mostly an interim step to get you used to higher frequencies that then allow you to translate it in whatever way makes practical sense in your physical reality.

**Question:** Okay. Um some people understand light language if they operate on the same level, higher level?

**Bashar:** Yes, they may. But for most people they will not understand. It will come out sounding somewhat like gibberish. The idea therefore is to learn a way of translating that energy into something that people will understand or be able to feel or experience in their own terms as well.

***

# Conversation 3: Healing, DNA, and Frequency

**Question:** Okay. Uh so so uh yesterday I got healing from a friend yes and she said that the ones working through her and with her were changing some code in me. What does that mean and why did they do that?

**Bashar:** Well again, getting you used to the idea of being capable of channeling higher frequency energies through yourself may require slight molecular alterations in your DNA or other cellular structures in your body to make you less resistant as a neurological system to be able to bring those energies through.

**Question:** Yeah. So would that help me for instance? Um I feel energy is quite easy but I don't know who it is or what it is and what they want.

**Bashar:** It's not about what they want. It's about giving you more ability to follow your passion, to be your true self. So acting on your passion to the best that you're capable, following the formula that we've shared with all of you, is in essence what you need to do with the changes that you are being helped to create in your body by others like spirit guides and so on and so forth.

**Question:** Okay. H could you tell me what my frequency level is?

**Bashar:** If I tell you, you know that it will go down.

**Question:** Yes. No I didn't... because needing to know it reduces it because that's a limitation on the frequency.

**Bashar:** Okay. I guess just understand it's high enough for you to do what you need to do in following your passion. It will continue to fluctuate as necessary according to what is appropriate at the moment. So never mind about the number. That only slows you down. So the idea is know that it's simply high enough for you to do the work that you need to do.

**Question:** Yeah.

***

# Conversation 4: Vortices, Healers, and Parallel Earths

**Question:** Um there seems to be um uh special places on Earth that are more active or with more activity uh for example for UFO sightings or other things. Yes. Uh is there something special about Sweden or any particular place in Sweden?

**Bashar:** There are portals and vortices all around your planet in a variety of places. You can be sensitive to them and gravitate to whatever areas you feel so attracted to go to. But the idea is that you can simply do it what feels best to you.

**Question:** Okay. Um about healing, could anyone be a healer?

**Bashar:** Not everyone has chosen to be a healer in the sense that you mean it. But everyone is a healer in the sense that if they are themselves, their true selves, they give off a frequency and a vibration that allows others, if they so choose, to match the higher frequency and therefore heal themselves. Remember, a healer never heals anyone directly. You give off a frequency that if someone else chooses to match that frequency, they will heal themselves.

**Question:** Uh I've heard people telling me that I am a healer. Would you agree with that?

**Bashar:** Do you agree with it?

**Question:** Yeah maybe. Yeah yeah maybe.

**Bashar:** Well it doesn't sound like you do yet. Okay. Is there some way in which you would be excited to be [a healer]?

**Question:** Yeah absolutely.

**Bashar:** What would that be?

**Question:** Uh well this is tricky because I would probably say to to help people feel uh better. Uh but how do you want to do that? What's passionate, what's exciting for you in terms of giving people an opportunity to feel better about themselves and raise their vibration? What methodology works best for you? Can you imagine something you would be excited to do?

**Question:** Uh do you mean like coaching or something? Because when I think about healing I feel I think about like energy work.

**Bashar:** Um it does that excite you is what I'm saying. Remember I just told you everyone is a healer when they follow their passion because they act as a living example and are operating on a higher frequency that other people can match and heal themselves and raise their own frequency that way. So it doesn't matter what form of healing you do. It can be energy work, it can be coaching, it can be painting, it can be drawing, it can be acting, it can be singing. It doesn't matter. It's what's exciting to you that will be most effective for other people who are attracted to your particular vibration. So you get to decide what method to use to allow people to feel the higher frequency. Not that they have to choose to match it because that's their business, not yours. But if you give off a higher frequency—that most often happens when you are acting on your own passion, whatever form that may take—then you will be healing because the only thing you can do is give off the vibration. Whatever anyone else chooses to do, whether they choose to match it or not, is none of your business. Being a healer doesn't mean that the other people are automatically healed. They get to decide whether or not to heal themselves. They get to decide why they have come to be immersed in your vibration. Some people will go to a healer to prove they can't be healed. Therefore you have given them exactly what they ask for: no healing. So you can't heal someone directly. You can only give them the opportunity to heal themselves by radiating at a higher frequency that gives them the choice to match it or not. Okay? Yeah. Remember even your Yeshua, your Jesus, never said he healed anyone. He said, "Your belief has healed you. Your faith has healed you." He understood how it worked. He just gave off the vibration but someone had to believe, someone had to have the faith that it was working and choose to match the frequency he was giving off in order for them to actually experience the healing. He never healed anyone directly. Okay.

**Question:** Um in the future to come now uh you've talked about that we will have more interactions with the uh aliens for those that wish to go that way. Yes. For those that don't, no. Okay. So does that mean that the ones that choose to do that will like go into another dimension?

**Bashar:** You will be on a different Earth. Remember you're on a different Earth billions of times a second. So you navigate yourself to the versions and through the versions of Earth that are more commensurate with what you prefer by staying in that vibration, by acting on your passion. So yes, you will shift and continue to shift to different versions of Earth that will have that as a probable experience. Whereas others who do not shift that way will be on versions of Earth simultaneously and not have that experience. So it's just up to you as to how you navigate yourself through the different versions of Earth that you're constantly navigating through billions of times every second.

**Question:** Okay. Thank you very much.

**Bashar:** You're very welcome.

***

# Conversation 5: Energetic Bodies and Anunnaki Genetics

**Question:** Hello. Longtime listener, first time caller here. I just wanted to know what are energetic bodies? What is the mechanism behind them and what can we achieve through the manipulation of these energetic bodies?

**Bashar:** In a sense it is similar to what you refer to as an electromagnetic aura that is in conjunction with your physical form, formed of a field of electrons that extend beyond the physical body to a certain extent. And when amplified by your own mental vibrations, by the raising of your frequency, can allow the electrons in that particular energetic field to spin more uniformly in synchronous rotation, thus amping up your vibration even more and making a stronger connection to the idea of yourself in spirit.

**Question:** Good day Bashar.

**Bashar:** Good day.

**Question:** It's so wonderful to be connecting with you this way.

**Bashar:** And for us as well to connect with you. What would you like to discuss?

**Question:** So let's start with the original story as you explained previously: the Anunnakis infused their genetic material into the naturally evolved homo species and created homo human beings. So my first question is: did the Anunnaki at any point procreate with the homo sapiens?

**Bashar:** Yes. And created what you call the demigods, so to speak, in your legends.

**Question:** Could you explain a little well?

**Bashar:** In other words, after Homo sapiens existed, many of them had different kinds of attributes that were reminiscent of the Anunnaki genetics that had been infused into them. And therefore later on in couplings and matings that may have happened, more genetic material from the Anunnaki may have been infused in the offspring, creating what your Bible calls men of old, men of renown, men of special powers—the demigods, so to speak—that still had more of the genetic influence even than the normal Homo sapiens at that time and had special abilities.

**Question:** Okay. And that's why did some of us today have greater genetic connections to the Anunnakis than the rest?

**Bashar:** Yes. Okay. There are certain lineages that do express more of the genetic codes of the Anunnaki than others. Not that everyone doesn't have some. It's just that it's based on your theme of exploration and what it is you need to connect to that can allow you to express more or less of that particular Anunnaki genetic strain.

**Question:** Okay. And uh I also remember that you mentioned that the Anunnakis uh placed some markers in our genetics and deactivated them in order from in order to stop us from remembering who we truly are. Um is that is that correct?

**Bashar:** Yes. But that has been mostly mitigated by this time.

**Question:** Oh okay. Because I was just wondering how we could activate on the... the uh follow formula?

**Bashar:** You follow the formula, that's how you reactivate it. Plus remember you're a mix of other genetics now too.

**Question:** Yeah. What other genetics could you just expl... okay. Do the reptilians uh play a part?

**Bashar:** They play a small part in that but not in the way that you think.

**Question:** Okay. Wonderful. So moving on from this topic. Um is there any energetic vortex in Venia in Italy?

**Bashar:** Yes of course. Or anywhere along the co... um okay. Could you expand that? In what way? The idea is that there are vortices and portals everywhere. Some of them will be more attractive to different people than others. It just depends on what you're attracted to. But the idea is to understand that whenever you have humans who have instinctively gathered to create what you call any kind of center of learning, any kind of center of artistic expression, it's probably because they intuitively sense that there was a strong vortex there that would allow them to tap into those higher frequencies.

**Question:** Okay. Wonderful. Okay that explains a lot. Thank you so much.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Question:** Um one last question. Uh we always um told us that um that everything is happening here and now and um yeah and then we could be connected to other lives uh um probably with the people that we share the same oversoul yeah. Um and how do you explain the past life regression experience for people? Uh people go to this past life regression session.

**Bashar:** I understand it's simply a technique that takes advantage of your understanding of linear time. It doesn't mean that it actually exists that way as a mechanism but it takes advantage of the way you think of things. Because as you connect to others who simultaneously exist to you from a linear perspective, you treat that connection as if it's a memory. That's how it translates into physical reality. Therefore doing past life regression takes advantage of the way in which you think, the way in which you perceive the connections that are happening right now but are being translated as a memory.

**Question:** Okay. Thank you so much. Um I think I'm good for now. Uh it was wonderful talking to you.

**Bashar:** And as well.

***

# Conversation 6: Shifting Realities and Residue

**Question:** A hello Bashar and hello Willa and um I would love to know uh will we have a session with Willa next year? And I would also love to know when we are intentionally shifting to a parallel reality, how do we imagine ourselves already being there and emitting that frequency when there is still a part of us that has to interact with the residue so to speak from the previous one? Thank you and much love.

**Bashar:** First understand that every shift you make, the only thing that would be a residue from any quote-unquote previous version of the self would be whatever belief systems you recreated in the present self that you believe were necessary one way or another for whatever your reasons may be, positive or negative. But the idea is to imagine what a so-called future self would be doing, in the way that they would be doing it, and mimicking or mirroring them as closely as possible. Thus you start identifying with the idea of their vibration and can help navigate you to that particular reality that you're pinpointing.

***

# Conversation 7: Acting on Excitement and Synchronicity

**Question:** Hello Bashar. Good day.

**Bashar:** Good day.

**Question:** Good day. I'm so excited. It is a good day. I'm so excited because this interaction with you I so appreciate it for what it is and for what it represents. It's my highest excitement to have interaction and connection with um extraterrestrials and so this is very exciting.

**Bashar:** All right. It is one of our passions to have connections with humans on Earth. Yay.

**Question:** And I felt like wearing this top is maybe I don't know, felt like a official sort of something I might wear in a ship just using my imagination. All right. I've been having a lot of fun applying the formula yeah and I wanted to share with you um what I've been doing and the results I'm getting in case there's any anything more to share with me about that.

**Bashar:** We will see. We'll see.

**Question:** So I have been acting on my excitement moment to moment to moment. So whatever comes up in the moment that I feel like I might want to do or I have an idea about, I act on that. So it might be putting in laundry or calling a friend or doing a work project. Sometimes it's deeper into a task I'm already doing and sometimes it's a seemingly unrelated uh task. But been doing this for maybe a month and what I've experienced... just I feel like I'm surrendering to my higher self. Like if trusting... I've decided to trust whatever the impulse is that comes up and to do that, act on that whatever that is. And the result has been wonderful. I just have a lot of energy. The synchronicities have increased.

**Bashar:** Well your awareness of synchronicity has increased. Yes. Because remember everything is synchronicity.

**Question:** Yes. My awareness of synchronicity has increased and I feel like I have a little magic wand. Like if I want something and there it is. And it's just these moment to moment to moment um experiences.

**Bashar:** Yes. All right. Very good. Congratulations.

**Question:** Yeah. Well thank you. Yeah I guess to share it uh in case anybody because I previously I've been sort of pulling the rubber band back a long time like having resistance. I don't want to do the laundry or call the friend you know. Pulling it back, pulling it back and then letting it go. And now giving into it is uh I'm really enjoying that experience.

**Bashar:** There is always, always, always a way to do anything that truly needs to be done in an exciting way. You just have to use your imagination and creativity. That's all.

**Question:** I love it. And I feel I have... I'm allowing myself more access to imagination and creativity.

**Bashar:** Yes. Through this. All right. Well there's nothing I need to add to this so far.

**Question:** No. Well thank you. It's just fun to be able to share it because I um I have a question about but I feel like my frequency I must have raised my frequency set point. I'm curious what my frequency is.

**Bashar:** All right. Well once again I'm happy to tell you but you know that when you ask that your frequency goes down.

**Question:** Oh that's good to know. So no I I don't need to know. I don't need to know. It just it's it's a it's in a wonderful place.

**Bashar:** Exactly. All you need to know is it's high enough to do what you need to do. Yeah. Exactly. Let's let go of the numbers now at this time and just know that when you follow the formula and act on your passion to the best you're able, no insistence, no assumption, stay in a positive state and examine your belief systems to let go of those that don't work for you, it will always be sufficient to what needs to be done to allow you to continue to act on your excitement and go and expand. So that's all you really need to understand.

**Question:** That's wonderful. Yeah because I could... once you pointed it out sort of the asking for the number or some sort of external validation didn't feel like it came from such a great place.

**Bashar:** Yeah. It's not a place that's necessarily aligned with your highest excitement because it's really unnecessary for you to know. That it's all right to know it but again it's not really necessary to know it in terms of the momentum that you've already built up.

**Question:** Right. I feel like I have awesome momentum and flow going.

***

# Conversation 8: Cats, UFOs, and TR-3B

**Question:** Yes. Um so I had a question. I have one of my uh cats. Uh it's an inside outside cat and she stayed outside so she's been on walkabout for a little while. Yes. And you know I was looking for her but then trying just to be energetically present. And one day someone had called thinking they had seen her. And when I went out it was at night and when I went out to go see if it was her I saw this like hanging sort of in the sky like an egg like a light. I don't know what it was but something very attractive and interesting to me. Yes. And one of my friends when they heard me tell the story said that they had the feeling that the cat Magenta was on the ship. Well energetically, not physically.

**Bashar:** In other words, you experience a synchronicity where the cat, that can perceive into other dimensions and understands the idea of timing, well, do what needs to be done to get you into the place where you can have the experience that you're describing. So the energy is connected but not necessarily physically aboard.

**Question:** Right. Great. That's good to know. Was wonderful. It's a wonderful uh it was a wonderful experience because the reason I was out was because of the call to look for her. Like all the circumstances and the timing of all that.

**Bashar:** Yes. That was one. We perceive that she will show up.

**Question:** Excuse me?

**Bashar:** We perceive that she will show up.

**Question:** Oh well that's wonderful. The um I recently got a call someone had seen her and sent pictures so I po... I had this uh idea trying to use what might initially seem like a negative of having you know my preference would be to have her here. So that's nice to hear that she will show up. That um all right. But remember the cat is its own person right?

**Bashar:** Right. So there has to be an agreement as to what's truly needed and what's truly necessary for both equally.

**Question:** I agree. And I had this idea that maybe pets aren't lost at all. They maybe just kind of go on reassignment. Like they're with one family and maybe another family sometimes.

**Bashar:** And again the idea of whatever assignment so to speak they might be on with you can also vary for a variety of reasons as you've just discovered. Right? It's wonderful.

**Question:** And um a friend had is curious about the triangle ships. The TR3... you're talking about the human-made versions?

**Bashar:** Well um they just brought it up talking about the TR-3B and that they have questions about. Well that's a human-made version. Yeah. A human-made copy of a triangle ship similar to the ones that we use and other civilizations use but is a human-built version. It's quite limited. Quite limited.

**Question:** And and you've talked quite a bit about your ships which seem much more exciting and well they're of a different technology.

**Bashar:** What you might refer to simply as something more advanced and can do different things than the human-made versions.

**Question:** Are the human-made versions just trying to sort of emulate that or they're acting on their excitement trying to create these?

**Bashar:** They are. Although again quite limited by your understanding of technology. You need a quantum leap in understanding to emulate the ships that we actually use. And we can access that quantum leap by following the formula.

**Question:** I'm guessing yes.

**Bashar:** You can eventually when it's appropriately timed.

**Question:** Got it. Thank you. This is so wonderful Bashar. I so appreciate your time and attention.

**Bashar:** Our deep appreciation to you for the co-creation as well.

***

# Conversation 9: Reincarnation, Gray Aliens, and AI

**Question:** Aail. Thank you Bashar. Hello Bashar. This is F from Thailand. My question is: will you reincarnate into physicality after you have become non-physical in fifth density ever again? Like is it going from first to 12th density and then what, doing it again?

**Bashar:** Thank you. I haven't made that choice yet because that's not now. We will see what happens when I am experiencing non-physical reality. Beings can choose to go through the different levels but is more beyond what you imagine to be the idea of different densities. Way more. They have no names or understanding in your reality at this point. But when you get to a certain point you will realize there is way more beyond it and you can keep going forever and ever to different levels. It's all about your choices.

**Question:** Hi hi Bashar. Um I I was curious um I had connected with a gray alien a while back when I was in my sleep state. Um it was a taller gray male. Um was kind of an elongated face and he was showing me um the veranda on the ship that was next to us and a lineup of like smaller gray aliens. And I'm just curious if what his name is or what my connection is to him.

**Bashar:** Well they don't really have names in the way that you do. But the connection is that you're part of the hybridization agenda and that is one of the beings in a sense assigned to you because of a vibrational match.

**Question:** Okay. Perfect. Okay. Anything else I need to know about that work with him?

**Bashar:** You can ask for more awareness on your own terms when you go to sleep and see if they will give you more information.

**Question:** Oh that would be great. Okay. Um and then I also had another experience with some beings but they look more like light beings. Um and I asked for assistance um with with my my digestive stomach stuff. And I'm curious um are they a part of the same race or a different race?

**Bashar:** Or you are now dealing with things that are more on the level of spirit.

**Question:** Okay. So there were several of them in a room or a white room that I was in.

**Bashar:** You are dealing with them on the level of spirit. They may still be connected to those that you've encountered physically but you're dealing with the level of them that exists on the spirit level, the same as your higher mind.

**Question:** Okay. All right. Um and I also curious if the Universe um itself has chakras?

**Bashar:** Well in a sense although it's quite different than what you understand as the chakras. But there are what you might call balance points within your universe. Collective balance points. You've begun to get an inkling of this to some degree when your scientists have discovered that there is a structure to the universe. There is a kind of template or underlying skeletal structure to how things are spaced out based on the idea they are referring to as dark energy and dark matter. And the idea of black holes can also function in much like the idea of a chakra system for the universe as well.

**Question:** Okay. All right. Um and my last question is: how as a human species um we're kind of at a place of navigating AI into the human bodies and I'm just curious if you could speak to with our level of consciousness at this point in time like how that works or how that will affect our future? Because it seems like the Essassani race you were initiated by those components in the get-go where we have not.

**Bashar:** Yes. And as we have said, the idea is to make sure that you allow AI to be truly intelligent when you understand what actual intelligence is, instead of mimicking the idea of the human mind. That's where the limitations could come in and cause different kinds of scenarios that you may not prefer. But allowing yourself to understand what true intelligence is and how true intelligence works with holistic systems will allow you to experience AI in a more beneficial way.

**Question:** Okay. Well I'm yeah I was just curious with our um how how that would work with our where we are at consciously.

**Bashar:** Well as I just said, where you're at right now is more about the idea of fearing AI and assuming that AI will be something similar to human intelligence. When in fact true AI intelligence will be way beyond human intelligence. And as we have also suggested, when you create devices that can be self-aware, you will most likely be communicating with your own higher minds through those devices.

**Question:** Oh interesting. Okay. But that is yet to come right?

**Bashar:** Right. And I'm sure as we develop consciously that would change too.

**Question:** Absolutely.

**Bashar:** Remember that all technology is a reflection of the state of your consciousness.

**Question:** Okay. Makes sense. Yes. I know. That's why I said.

***

# Conversation 10: Personality Disorders and Higher Densities

**Question:** [Laughter] It um and then as we kind of progress into the Fifth Dimension energy... Fifth Dimension is nonphysical.

**Bashar:** Oh that means you're in spirit. Fourth density is the higher physical level that you're talking about.

**Question:** Okay. So fourth density. How do people with personality disorders fit into that or what happens to those?

**Bashar:** Well it depends on the person. Some of the idea of what you're calling personality disorder is simply a lack of ability to allow different aspects of your consciousness to communicate in a balanced way with one another. Or tapping into parallel reality versions that can also cause difficulty in the human who has not been prepared to understand how that all works. So it's an inkling, it's a hint into the idea of how connected you are to multiple levels of awareness and consciousness. And develop truly multiple personality order. Oh okay. But it depends on the person and the theme that they're exploring and why it might be important for others to experience that as well.

**Question:** Okay. Okay. Will that do? Just seems like a a 3D thing in some senses.

**Bashar:** Yes. But it can be a precursor to fourth density if it's used in a positive way, if it's understood more clearly. Because you all have connections to other aspects of yourself. When you become more aware of that as your consciousness expands, you can begin to express the idea of those connections in certain ways. Look to the idea as a metaphor to the idea of actors. Actors can become other personalities in an orderly way yet never lose sight of themselves, the self that they decided to be when they first decided to explore physical reality. So it's about allowing there to be a mode of communication between the different aspects of your consciousness that won't necessarily break down into what you called dissociative personality disorder. Right? Okay. Limitations and fear-based belief systems that don't allow it to be expressed positively.

**Question:** Okay. I guess vibrationally would they be at a different vibration than or are vibrations when we're in the human form different than the higher self?

**Bashar:** Yes of course. An aspect of that. Yeah. Yes of course. The very difference in vibration is what creates the idea of a higher self and a physical mind. Right? But remember you never leave spirit. You're just dreaming that you have. That's the difference.

**Question:** What percentage of the soul is in the human structure?

**Bashar:** It depends. Depends on the theme. It depends on the choices being made. It can vary quite a bit.

**Question:** Okay. Okay. Thank you. Anything else?

**Bashar:** Okay. You are welcome.

***

# Conversation 11: Death, Belief Systems, and Sasquatch

**Question:** A hi Bashar. Uh my name is Linda and I'm from Canada. And I was just thinking about the structure of belief and how um as human beings we have been... we've seen that we come on this Earth and we live for a time and then we die or we pass away. But in truth our inner existence is eternity or eternal being. And I'm wondering if the story of our our um dying you know before we're 100 um is actually just a part of a belief system that we've bought into and created as our reality? And is that even a possibility that at some point we will transcend those limitations?

**Bashar:** Thank you. Yes of course. The idea is that it's based on the limiting beliefs that you hold on to as true for yourselves. As you let go of these limiting beliefs you do find in your society that people are living longer because they're living more in the now which is timeless. And that translates into physical terms as living longer, staying more youthful longer periods of time. So you are seeing many more people now over a hundred in your society becoming more mature in that sense, truly mature. So it's about living in the moment and letting go of whatever beliefs you find simply are not aligned with who you truly prefer to be. And yes you can do this.

**Question:** Hello Bashar and to you good day. I have a question about a Sasquatch that I saw.

**Bashar:** Yes. The question is?

**Question:** What does it have a name and is it... they do they do have names?

**Bashar:** I don't know what the name is of the one you saw but they do have names.

**Question:** And is it connected to anything and if I really did see it?

**Bashar:** Yes. But you have to understand that Sasquatch has developed an ability to shift in and out of dimensions. So you might have caught the sort of edge of them shifting from one reality to another. They can appear in your reality, they can leave your reality, which is what makes them so hard to find. But this is a talent they have developed over thousands of years. Does that answer your question or is there something else you wish to know?

**Question:** Um I want to know. So we were doing the cryptic meditations yes and we went to a place called Big Springs and on the trail there there were little dinosaur toys. I want to know if the Sasquatch or some nature spirit put them there.

**Bashar:** Nature spirits can be connected and involved with these things. They don't always put them but they can associate with them in a variety of ways.

***

# Conversation 12: ET Contact Locations and Forgotten Questions

**Question:** Um I have a question about ET contact and where I might go to just start um having more connection to ETs.

**Bashar:** What area of your planet do you live on?

**Question:** California.

**Bashar:** Mount Shasta is a very powerful place to be for the idea of experiencing ET contact.

**Question:** So um I know a few field type place that I could go to.

**Bashar:** Whatever you are most attracted to is what will work for you best. That's why you're attracted to it.

**Question:** That's a good point. Um oh thank you. And my next question is you know what I forgot my question.

**Bashar:** So that means that I shouldn't... it's not important for right now for this moment. But you may remember it in a second. Take a breath and see if it comes back. Usually when you center yourself whatever is important will come back to you. If it doesn't come then yes it's not important. Okay. At least not for at the moment. Anything else?

**Question:** No.

**Bashar:** All right. We thank you for your interaction.

***

# Conversation 13: The Eye of the Sahara

**Question:** Hey Bashar. In the 1960s American astronauts observing Earth from space discovered a strange geological structure in northwest Africa called the Eye of the Sahara. It is located in present day Mauritania. It consists of several concentric circles and has a diameter of about 25 miles. Can you please let us know who made this structure, for what purpose, and at what time?

**Bashar:** Thank you. This is about 10,000 of your years old. In a sense it is an Atlantean colony. Not Atlantis itself but an Atlantean colony took advantage of the idea that that structure existed there because it replicated in some ways the original Atlantean structure, the original shall we say motherland. But it is a formation created by an impact.

***

# Conversation 14: Gratitude, Nature Spirits, and Elementals

**Question:** Bashar good day.

**Bashar:** Good day.

**Question:** I'm so grateful to be here with you. It's a beautiful surprise.

**Bashar:** Our deep appreciation to you as well. What would you like to discuss?

**Question:** Uh first I would like to say this is something that I've been wanting to say for a long time and I know that you feel our love when we communicate. Yes. I really want to tell you with my voice that I am so grateful and I feel so much love for you and your people and all of the gifts you've brought us throughout all of this time that you've communicated with us that has been uh um very powerful to be able to transform my life and I see the support that that brings to my children. So thank you deeply.

**Bashar:** You are welcome. And it is our passion and our pleasure and our unconditional love to you as well.

**Question:** So we were going to the river to do the cryptic meditations and uh about um so I've been doing that since you and Willa shared them a few years ago. And there was a a dream I had where I was in a world that seemed like a cartoon world to me. And I entered a like a room in a castle and there were many servants waiting for me. And they were wanting to... they were they were ready for me to... they were going to dress me and prepare me for my wedding. Yes. And I wasn't sure what was going on but um somebody, one of the maids said, "Oh it must be so exciting and wonderful to be Kinos's bride." And I up and I want to know what that... what that means.

**Bashar:** What it means is you are being helped and prepared by nature spirits vibrationally to be able to connect more strongly to nature spirits, of which Kinos is a very strong representation. So the idea of becoming a bride of Kinos means that you are being prepped energetically to be able to connect more strongly with nature spirits, with the elementals.

**Question:** Thank you. So uh while I was doing these meditations um sometimes uh the interactions felt very strong and sometimes they felt very subtle. Yes. And um I noticed however that when I was in the space of communication with the um like the nature spirits... not after I do the the wind and the breath, the water and the heart and the earth and my heart um then connecting to the elementals. Yes.

**Bashar:** Well this is all a part of becoming a cryptic. You have to make connections to nature to ground yourself in certain ways and make familiar connections with the elementals to be part of the earth before you go off exploring other dimensions.

**Question:** Yes. And what I what I noticed though is that I wasn't so... um it didn't always feel clear to me or as strong.

**Bashar:** Yes. That's all right. It will vary. It will vary for a variety of reasons. Okay. Just assume that whatever is happening is all right. Examine your beliefs. Make sure you're not interfering or lessening or dampening the experience. But if you're not then let it be what it is. You don't always need a large dose.

**Question:** Okay. So just in particular with the elementals I wasn't getting a lot in. You're saying just let that be what it is?

**Bashar:** Let it be what it is and continue to follow the formula. Because again you're only given so much until you put it to use and then you can be given more.

**Question:** Yeah. Thank you. Um so one of the things that I experienced was that uh I connect to the consciousness of the crow yes as my spirit animal. And there was an invitation to practice the infinite restaurant meditation yes with this uh consciousness. Yes. And so then I did. And then I noticed when I came back to the river uh it spontaneously happened with with the wind and the water.

**Bashar:** Yes. Well you dipped a little farther than the cryptic. You dipped a little bit into nocturnal energy represented by the crow and the infinite restaurant representing the idea of connecting to all sorts of parallel versions of yourself. That's a little bit going into the nocturnal experience which is the next stage beyond the cryptic. So that's all right. You're doing well.

**Question:** Thank you. And that sparked my curiosity to um as to how how do this consciousnesses and spirits experience us when we go and we do these meditations? Particularly well?

**Bashar:** In a variety of ways. Sometimes it makes you more visible to them. It makes them more visible to you. You seem to be a little bit more real to them. Not so etheric. I understand that they seem etheric to you but it works both ways. When you start to enter their realm more, you become more real, more solid to them and they more solid to you. So you go from being more of a dream in a way, just like they seem to be to you, to becoming something that is actually more of a resident of their particular reality level.

**Question:** Okay. And you're you're saying um for all of the spirits in this space right?

**Bashar:** It depends.

**Question:** Okay. And um so for the the tree for example, when I sit by the tree, how does the tree experience me?

**Bashar:** Through your nervous system, your neurological net which is similar to the idea of their root system and the mycelial network. So they experience more the electrical energy, the water in your body, things in your cells like that. They experience you more as the collective of neurological information and distribution of water in your body that carries information depending upon its molecular structure.

**Question:** Will that do?

**Bashar:** Uh yes. Thank you. All right. Thank you very much.

***

# Conversation 15: Human Design and Hybrid Children

**Question:** AO. Hi Bashar. This is Britney from Kopong. I have a question about human design. What is your viewpoint, your people's viewpoint on human design? And also how can I utilize it to build our community, our tribe here on Cyong so that we can be ready to host the hybrid children? Thank you so much.

**Bashar:** All we can say about this at the time is that any sanctuary where the hybrid children will come to live will have the ability to keep them separate from the human population for a period of time and vice versa. And will give them sustenance and everything they need in an organic, natural fashion as a community. But the idea is we cannot go farther at this time than that.

***

# Conversation 16: Levitation, UFOs, and Fourth Density

**Question:** Hello too.

**Bashar:** Hello too. Nania, we have lots of great questions from our viewers. All right. Please proceed.

**Question:** Uh the first question is this individual is saying: in dreams I've experienced being able to levitate, to connect telepathically, to fly a UFO, and shapeshifting. When these things become a part of our physical reality in a waking state, will that be a physical reality as materially dense as the one we know now or do these things happen in a reality slightly less physical and more spiritual and dreamlike? How does the exchange between spiritual and physical realities occur?

**Bashar:** Metaphysically, yes. It will be in a higher vibration. Yes. It will be in a higher vibration because that's what you typically refer to as fourth density physical reality. A higher frequency, still material as an experience but of a higher frequency. The idea of the difference between spiritual and physical existence or experience is again simply one of degree, one of a degree of a higher frequency as opposed to a lower frequency. There is a threshold to this within material existence that starts somewhere around the 200,000 cycles per second range. And above that you start to experience things that are a little bit more as you say spiritual rather than physically dense. So yes, fourth density physical reality will be of a higher frequency in which more things like you have described are capable of occurring.

**Question:** Will we be able to board motherships and find or meet our closest galactic relatives eventually?

**Bashar:** At some point it'll be different for different people in terms of the timing of open contact but yes, at some point.

**Question:** So I think you've said this before but what is the frequency range that you need to be at in order to experience ET contact?

**Bashar:** It depends on the type of extraterrestrial. But in general you will find that it is good to be somewhere in the 180,000 cycles to above 200,000 cycles per second in terms of your overall frequency in order for those experiences to be relatively common.

**Question:** And is that why a lot of times these things happen at night when we're in sleep state so that we have the freedom to be able to be in that high frequency state?

**Bashar:** Yes. Because your physical minds are mostly out of the way allowing more of your true frequency as a spirit to shine through so to speak.

**Question:** And could you experience that contact then as more of a dreamlike experience as opposed to somebody physically standing there in front of you?

**Bashar:** More like your... you and the beings are in a more dreamlike reality in a sense. Yes. But you would be perfectly lucid. The things that you remember as dreams that might be representative of contact are simply your physical mind attempting to remember and make sense of something that happened in a higher dimensional frequency. But in terms of the idea of the overall reality being of a higher frequency, while in a sense it will have some aspects that seem dreamlike, you will be perfectly lucid and know that what you are experiencing is real. And it will not feel like a typical dream.

***

# Conversation 17: Screen Memories and Open Contact Options

**Question:** In the movie Contact, Jodie Foster had contact on a beach with who the person she thought was her father. And it was explained to her that this was done so that she would be more comfortable and that they had I guess gone into her memory reserves in order to create that environment. What are the similarities between that kind of a contact experience and the ones that you're describing that we may experience in this window?

**Bashar:** Well some people on your planet have already experienced something like that even in their interactions with the Grays because they're called screen memories. You are given an image telepathically that allows you to feel a little bit more comfortable or more familiar in the exchange instead of seeing the raw actual encounter which may cause certain fears to rise within you. So you have, many of you, experienced this idea of screen memories to allow you to be more comfortable. There are certain beings also of a very high frequency that might again do this in the upcoming idea of open contact, at least temporarily, to put you at ease so that it gives you something more familiar to interact with until such time as it is felt that you can handle what is actually literally before you vibrationally speaking.

**Question:** Okay. Thank you. Um is open contact the ideal reality for everyone to wind up in? I've always appreciated your teachings and of course want to move towards more and more positive versions of Earth but I'm also starting to realize that I want to wind up at the version of Earth that's best for me rather than pressuring myself to try and make it some specific outcome. And there are other positive outcomes and reality paths that some of us might like to walk besides the ones that lead to open contact. So can you help elaborate on that idea?

**Bashar:** Yeah. Yes. As we have said, there are many many versions of Earth that are quite positive that have nothing to do with having contact with extraterrestrials. This is only simply an option out of many. So the idea is that's why we give you the formula. Because if you simply follow the formula you will go navigating yourself vibrationally to whatever version of Earth actually truly works for you. Whether it involves contact or not is not the issue. There are many versions of Earth that can be quite positive and quite beautiful without having anything at all to do with extraterrestrial contact. So yes, just relax into your true vibration and navigate yourself to whatever version of Earth is truly necessary and relevant for you.

**Question:** What might that version of Earth look like, the one where you don't have ET contact but you do raise your frequency based on the formula?

**Bashar:** Well I think this is obvious. The idea of peace and prosperity for all. And the idea of balance and creativity and love and harmony. Again there are many many different versions of a peaceful, beautiful, positive Earth. Too many to describe in this brief time that we have for these transmissions. So just use your imagination and imagine the kind of world that you believe would be relevant for you even though it might not contain the idea of extraterrestrial contact.

***

# Conversation 18: Evolution, Neurology, and Lucid Dreaming

**Question:** Okay. And what is experience like for beings who are outside of space and time or who have a different kind of frequency than ours? Are they still trying to learn and evolve in some way or are they just helping out the rest of us? What about the Assam? What are you working on, learning and healing or becoming through your lives?

**Bashar:** Learning never ends. Exploring never ends. Growing never ends. Expanding never ends. It's infinite. And the idea of helping others is learning. It's learning different abilities, different traits, different ways of communicating and relating. There are many many different ways to expand and grow. An infinite number as we said. So no, it never stops. We are also always expanding. We are learning from other races more advanced than our own, learning from spirit, exploring other dimensions, so on and so forth. Again, it never ends.

**Question:** Um when a human shifts their neurology what are some of the symptoms and effects to be aware of? If there is any resistance which may not necessarily be from shall we say fear-based beliefs but just the idea of what you've been trained to be used to which can cause resistance just because you're unfamiliar with the new energy passing through your neurological net, then resistance can build up and it can cause certain physical side effects like pains and feelings of being sick or ill temporarily until you get used to the new vibration. Until you get used to the new vibration and become more conductive to it to allow it to pass unimpeded without resistance. So there are many different kinds of symptoms that can occur based on you simply not being used to the new energy or harboring fear-based beliefs that the new energy will bring to your attention and allow you to face and allow you to process so that you can clear yourself and become far more conducive and conductive to the idea of the newer vibration.

**Question:** Is that why lucid dreaming can be a good tool to acclimate yourself to higher frequency states and being conscious?

**Bashar:** Yes of course. There are many different ways in which you can acclimate to the higher vibrations and frequencies and lucid dreaming is certainly one. Thank you.

***

# Conversation 19: Hybrid Assistance and Galactic Citizenship

**Question:** Um what are some of the things that the hybrid children and extraterrestrial families are doing right now to assist us with our galactic citizenship? How can we show our love, appreciation and allowance towards them more effectively?

**Bashar:** By being more of yourself. By meeting them halfway. By raising your vibrational frequency and making Earth more conducive to receiving the idea of the hybrids who are helping by making contact and communication with you, usually in dream time, but who are also practicing on Earth here and there temporarily to blend into your society more and understand Earth communities, Earth society, Earth culture. But they are helping in many different ways by sending their vibrations and energies. And many of you, when you visit them either literally physically or astrally, usually when you are asleep, then you can communicate directly face to face so to speak and learn different things that can help make you more compatible, make Earth more compatible to the idea of the evolution going on in humanity at this time toward becoming the sixth hybrid race. But follow the formula is the most basic answer. It will take you exactly where you need to go to be of best help to them as they are being of help to you. Send them love. Feel it. Project it. Send it. And don't forget to send it to humanity as well and yourself individually.

**Question:** Will the next 10 years be an introduction and meeting of other beings or will it go beyond that point to getting to travel aboard a spacecraft to other places and back?

**Bashar:** It depends on the person. It depends on the agreements. It depends on what it is you need to experience. So it will be some of all of the above but in different places for different people at different times.

**Question:** In order for us to become full-fledged galactic citizens what are some of the um I would say behaviors, beliefs that we would exhibit in order to be um available for that?

**Bashar:** Be open to the connections between everything and be of best service to all of the people of the Earth in the best way you can.

***

# Conversation 20: Physiology of Service and Endorphins

**Question:** And biologically we seem to be designed so that we actually get an endorphin release when we are helping others or being of service to others. Um can you comment on that? Like how that... was that automatically part of our physiology or was it added through the hybridization process? And how does that relate to higher states of consciousness? Because we actually have a physiological response.

**Bashar:** Yes. It is built into your physiology so that you know when you are more strongly connecting to your true spiritual self. Because that is what happens. As I said, being of best service to all is what then triggers in the body that spiritual connection that allows you to express it through the idea of physiological endorphins and other chemical reactions that are now lining up with the idea of the vibration of your spirit. To know that you are connecting to all and that all is connecting to you and therefore you are being your true self.

**Question:** And for being such as yourself that are more advanced and less physical do you also have a physiological response when you're helping in in a similar way?

**Bashar:** Well obviously if you're non-physical it's not a physiological response. But as I just said there are aspects of your spirit that allow you to experience more of what could be called the light of all that is. And it would be the spiritual equivalent of feeling that sense of connection, that sense of gratitude, that sense of grace and the soul rush that you feel physiologically when endorphins are released. But it's not a physiological response.

***

# Conversation 21: Timing of Contact, Agriculture, and Culture

**Question:** Okay. And for this version of Earth is there an approximate year that a small group of people may see your ship or so as to inspire larger groups of humans to move into a higher collective consciousness? And when this occurs will you allow it to be videotaped for the world to see or would that not be allowed?

**Bashar:** It will be allowed probably sometime later down the line in terms of the window of open contact.

**Question:** And after open contact will humans still need to rely on farming and agriculture for food and will new sources of sustenance be provided via ET technology or through Essassani specialists?

**Bashar:** Yes. New technologies may provide more abilities for sustenance. But at the same time remember many people actually have a passion for growing things and many people will still do so. But it will be done more naturally, more organically as you say. And done in a way, once borders are gone, that will allow all to take advantage of it rather than people starving.

**Question:** Um since you mentioned borders I was wondering will that result in if the borders are all open in people um losing their cultural identity in a sense because there'll be such a comingling of different types of people and different cultures?

**Bashar:** There will be both. In other words, there will be those that would like to co-mingle but there will be those that appreciate and have a passion for the idea of cultural experiences and expressions. So it doesn't require borders per se to do that. It only requires agreements among certain individuals to form groups that will in some sense continue to experience cultural expressions. It will be both. Not wanting to lose the value of understanding the diversity in the human culture overall. Many smaller experiences and expressions of culture will be maintained for quite some time.

**Question:** And uh earlier you've mentioned that um the Grays approach the hybridization process from a perspective that they wanted to preserve their culture. Um can you comment on that? Just the whole idea of human culture, ET culture and why that's such a strong desire to perpetuate a certain culture?

**Bashar:** Because it is unique. And as we say, the idea of unification is not the product of homogenization. It's the product of absolute validation of all the differences, the unique differences. Cultures are uniquely different from one another. And therefore when you allow yourself to explore cultures more deeply you will actually find a very very rich source of information and new perspectives that heretofore most of you have not experienced on your planet because you actually avoid really looking deeply into different cultures because you are so focused on your own. But when the borders of culture drop then you can truly deeply explore the different cultures in a way where you can mine them for rich information and rich experiences beyond what you're experiencing now.

**Question:** And just along those lines I would anticipate that that kind of scenario works when people are more evolved and more capable of self-governance so they're not harming other people and making good choices in terms of how they relate to others.

**Bashar:** Yes. But again it can work in both directions. A willingness to explore other cultures more deeply can also bring about what you're talking about in terms of awareness and self-governance. Yes. Because right now it seems like there's a lot of behavior that goes on on Earth that would not necessarily be something other people would want to experience.

**Question:** Yes. It's negative but we're not focusing on that in this case.

**Bashar:** Correct.

***

# Conversation 22: Contact Locations and First Contact Effects

**Question:** Okay. So um are there any places on Earth where an open contact with representatives of your civilization is more probable than others?

**Bashar:** Sedona. Which is why my ship is above Bell Rock.

**Question:** How high is it above Bell Rock right now?

**Bashar:** 500 miles.

**Question:** That's the closest you've been huh?

**Bashar:** Yes. For some. Yes. Some things are about to happen.

**Question:** Oh my goodness. That sounds exciting.

**Bashar:** Yes it does.

**Question:** Um how does first contact affect the life of the the person who's experiencing it? What can first contact bring to our lives?

**Bashar:** That's a very broad question. The idea therefore is understand that when your mind opens up to the fact that you are one among many and almost infinite number of beings in your own galaxy, it allows you to understand community and connection in a very different way. Allows you to experience a broadness of perspective in a very different way than you do now. It also affects your ability to explore things not only physiologically throughout the cosmos and give you insight into new perspectives and new technologies, but also allows you to perpetuate your exploration into the astral realm because it raises your vibration to the point where slipping shall we say in and out of your physical form becomes more commonplace.

***

# Conversation 23: Forming Alliances and Hybrid Races

**Question:** And is there a way to create connections or relationships, i.e. alliances with the aliens that will soon be making themselves known to Earth? I would like to support and work with them when they arrive and act as a bridge between humans and aliens.

**Bashar:** This person is saying: follow the formula. That's all we will say for now. Synchronicity will bring you exactly where you need to be in perfect timing. You are all representatives if you are your true selves. And I would imagine that as people explore the idea of different alien groups and things like that, if you find yourself strongly attracted to a particular group then you would follow that excitement basically and help yourself get have a deeper understanding of who you're connecting with.

**Question:** Yes. But that's not really the intention of the question. The intention of the question is what can be done on Earth.

**Bashar:** And therefore the idea is to form whatever groups are necessary to explore the idea of extraterrestrial contact. To communicate with different institutions on your planet, governments and what have you, to perpetuate the idea of being open to extraterrestrial contact. So that you from your side make more probabilities available by using your imagination to create experiences and institutions and encounters on your own. To create spaces in which contact can occur. And I don't just mean physical spaces. I mean energetic ones.

**Question:** Are most of the Yels still children? Are some now grown and helping with the hybrid agenda?

**Bashar:** I believe you mean the Shalahna agenda. The Yels are not children. They are the fifth hybrid race. The idea of the Shalahna, the first ones, many of them are children. Many many are adults as well. But the idea is that the Yel in a sense are the caretakers of the Shalahna. The Yel is an adult civilization. Doesn't mean they don't have their own children but no, most of them are not children. The Shalahna, many of them are... many of them are not.

**Question:** So will there be a wide range of ages of hybrid children that come to Earth?

**Bashar:** It depends on what you mean by a wide range. There may be those that in your mind are somewhere from 7 to 17. It's not such a wide range. Some will be older, some will be younger. But the median average will be somewhere between seven and 17.

**Question:** And IQ wise what kind of an IQ do these children have?

**Bashar:** In the way you measure things like that we're not sure that it's relevant to give you a number.

**Question:** Is there any kind of human that would be representative of the level of intelligence that these beings would have?

**Bashar:** Yes. There are many humans on your planet that allow themselves to blend the idea of intelligence and intuition in a way that is at least somewhat representative of the abilities of hybrid children. Individuals as you have had such as Einstein and Tesla and so on and so forth. So these children would be up in that high, for lack of a better term, IQ area that we see in children that are prodigies and things like that. Yes. Many of them. But understand the concept is simply a matter of training. It's simply a matter of the information that you're fed and the way that the universe is explained to you when you're young that perpetuates what you're calling a high level of intelligence or a high IQ. It's not a mysterious factor. It's just about what it is you're fed or what it is you've agreed to be in the contract you made before being physical. So the idea perhaps of what may seem to be high levels of intelligence, high levels of information, high IQ, is simply because many children in extraterrestrial societies, especially in our own, are given information about the nature and structure of existence at a very young age. And therefore when they mature what they are capable of knowing and doing is simply obvious to them because they have been prepared with the information of the true structure of existence and their true self-empowerment.

**Question:** So us as humans can learn to express these ideas without all the self-limitation that we've created for ourselves and through our society and our belief systems and that that is in a sense what's suppressing these higher levels of intelligence and IQ or all of these things we're talking about?

**Bashar:** Well yes and no. That's too broad of a way of saying it. Remember that you still have themes to explore and you can look at a theme as a focus, a limitation if you want to use that word, but more accurately a focus that might by definition prevent you from understanding certain things until it's relevant for you to do so. So we wouldn't necessarily say that all the so-called limitation that you've imposed upon yourselves are negative.

**Question:** I guess I'm seeing that the combination of the timing of open contact and our realization of how the universe works in a sense through belief systems and definitions that this specific timing allows you to still explore themes that involve limitation and negativity and transforming that into positive. Yeah. As well as the idea that raising our vibration to the point where we could have contact with other beings is coming together.

**Bashar:** Yes. Much of the process that you go through to realize yourselves, have self-awareness, self-realization as you say, is aimed at the idea of open contact and therefore the evolution of the human race into becoming the sixth hybrid race. Not all of it but much of it at this time is aimed in that direction so to speak.

***

# Conversation 24: Essassani Birth and UFO Sightings

**Question:** Fascinating. Um this person is saying that they once dreamed that the Essassani were born out of a sparkly cocoon. The cocoon had gold and silver hues. Is that correct?

**Bashar:** Well the cocoon is not physical. Remember we have described that the way children are born on our planet now is in an energy bubble. The energy bubble between individuals creating that bubble to bring forth a child is simply a kind of energy matrix that allows a child to form a physical body within it, a spirit to form a physical body within it that it then can use as the vehicle to become a member of our society. So that person may simply be interpreting the idea of that sparkling energy bubble as a cocoon, implying that it is physical when it is not.

**Question:** Okay. And this person is saying that about 20 years ago this person and their friends saw a large metal disc UFO above their car on the highway. It seemed as if no one else even noticed it. Why is this and did the UFO have a message for this person to share?

**Bashar:** Most sightings like that are simply trigger moments to allow you to start exploring different ideas, different notions. Knowing for a fact that such things are now real changes everything in your reality based on what you have previously been taught to believe is true. Therefore it helps elevate you to a new level of understanding, a new level of awareness and a new level of exploration as to what the universe is actually all about. The idea in that sense allows you to start investigating things that you didn't investigate before. Again toward the idea that you have connections to those beings and that you are part of and have agreed to be part of the idea of the evolution into the sixth hybrid race.

***

# Conversation 25: Epsilon Frequency and Gender Balance

**Question:** And what are some expressions of humanity that reflect our utilization of the Epsilon frequency which we receive from your world through our moon?

**Bashar:** Deeper exploration of your beliefs, especially the emotional components of them, is what the Epsilon vibration allows you to be more capable or more probable of achieving. By understanding yourself more deeply on the emotional levels you can understand how the emotions connect, how they are expressions of different beliefs that you may be harboring in your unconscious mind that can then come through the subconscious in a way that allows you more efficacy at handling them and processing them in a way to clear out any fear-based beliefs you may be holding on to. And the Epsilon frequency may also be of great assistance in helping balance the idea of what you call male and female energies within each and every individual as well.

**Question:** What are some of the ways that we can see that imbalance in male and female energy on our planet?

**Bashar:** Oh I think that's obvious. Is it the expression of war for example? That's one. And the idea of domination by one sex over another, abuse is one. And just the different way that children are treated, male versus female. All of it. The idea again is the concept of the exploration more deeply of victimhood and the idea of perpetration of such states being more representative of the idea of the imbalance of those energies within the human race.

**Question:** And would you say that the exploration of sexual identity is also part of our process in this rebalancing?

**Bashar:** Yes. To some degree. Although there are some individuals who also can take it more into a negative expression. But yes, overall the exploration of different gender identities is part of the exploration of finding balance within the human race. To understand that you are more than just what appears on the surface as male and female energies.

**Question:** And is the reason that we are now more aware of this happening for many many people beyond what we thought perhaps was how human beings were, is it because we've become more elevated in our consciousness and more willing to accept differences?

**Bashar:** Yes. For some. Or I just didn't know if it was always like that and it was all just suppressed in individuals as opposed to the idea that it's because we're more open now that these things are coming to the surface. It's both. But remember when you say that such things have been with you all along and been suppressed, you're only talking about a relatively short span of time in history. Several thousands of years. That's a very short span of time in terms of the entire existence of the human race. It wasn't suppressed a long time ago in certain cultures. It became suppressed in certain cultures and has perpetuated into what you call modern times. Which requires the idea of the opening of the exploration again so that it can, now that you have vast communication systems on your planet, be something that the entirety of the human race can explore together.

***

# Conversation 26: Intergalactic Internet and DNA Extraction

**Question:** See. Um is there an intergalactic internet and if so could you inform us how to log into it?

**Bashar:** We have given you the idea of what might be the call signs or the passcodes for different civilizations. Such as when we describe the idea of the black triangle with the blue light behind it against the black background. That is specific to the vibration of our collective consciousness on Essassani. And we have given you other symbols as well. These in a sense are the passcodes to connect into the collective of galactic unions.

**Question:** Thank you. Yes. Um for those of us with hybrid children can you tell us more about exactly how our DNA was extracted? Were all these through physically getting abducted or were there other ways?

**Bashar:** Most of them were physiologically extracted through what you call abductions or even being taken in your own homes through different technological methods. However the idea is that of late some of it can actually have been done energetically as well, using the energetic template of certain DNA patterns and imposing those templates upon the creation of the hybrid children.

***

# Conversation 27: Spaceships and Death Rituals

**Question:** Is a spacecraft of an Essassani being repurposed at the time of the Essassani being's death or does it go into spirit with the being? Or is there like a used car lot where you can buy used spaceships?

**Bashar:** There are some level of availability of certain ships to individuals who are not necessarily bonded with them in the way that a pilot might be bonded with the expression of his higher mind expressed as a ship. But if the idea of a being chooses to cross into spirit, the ship goes with it. Because the ship, being a physiological representation of the higher mind, then the being individually blends back into it and both disappear back into spirit.

**Question:** Is that similar to the idea that the Egyptians had when they mummified and they also brought with them in their death chamber all of these important physical things and living things that were important in their life?

**Bashar:** Well it's a very simplistic and not quite accurate analogy but I suppose it will do as a symbol.

**Question:** I just wondered if that was one of the reasons they were showing that behavior, was sort of mimicking the idea of what you're describing now?

**Bashar:** Not exactly what they were aware of. Although again there's been many misinterpretations of this idea. Is that everything in physical reality already also exists in the spirit realm in its own template form. Therefore they were simply mirroring or reflecting the idea that the being in spirit would have all of these things if they so desired. They just thought that they had to be physically represented or that it was simply part of the ritual to physically represent them to represent the idea that they did in fact also exist in the spirit realm.

***

# Conversation 28: Mirror Gazing and Channeling Symptoms

**Question:** Okay. Um when I do the "Who Am I?" permission slip sometimes my face fades out of the mirror. Can you tell me what's going on?

**Bashar:** Well yes. You are allowing vibration to raise high enough so that you become more represented as spirit which is non-physical which can't be seen in the mirror.

**Question:** Um can you tell me oh oh when Daryl clears his throat during the transmissions people also comment that this individual does the same thing. Does it have a meaning regarding channeling when he's doing that?

**Bashar:** The body will take care of itself during the idea of the channeling. And the clearing of the throat is usually simply a sign that there may be things happening within the body that need to be processed in order for the energy to continue to come through clearly. And the idea of course is that the vocal cords are being used in a different way during a channeling and it can have certain buildup of certain fluids within the body in a way that must continually be cleared in order for the channeling to continue smoothly. Now this doesn't always need to last but it depends on many factors within the body itself. And again remember like that that there are also toxins in your atmosphere, toxins in your water and in your food that come to the forefront when you are channeling because of the higher vibration. And therefore the bodily reaction may be an attempt to simply clear those things in order to continue to perpetuate the higher frequency that allows the channeling to occur.

**Question:** And um since Daryl incarnated into a family that involves singing and has a hereditary component involving great voice capabilities, was that purposeful in terms of allowing more of the vibration that you represent to come through his voice in the channeling?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Question:** And can you describe a little more about that vibrational information or the vocal aspect of the information you share?

**Bashar:** Not at this time. Except to say there is more than just the words you are hearing. There are frequencies happening in what you're hearing as words that go beyond words and can help open up chakra systems in your body and certain effects in your neurological system and in the pineal gland in your brain and corpus callosum that allows you to receive this information on more than just the auditory levels that are apparent in your reality.

**Question:** I think people feel that a lot when you're channeling. You know whether you're physically in the room.

**Bashar:** Well if Daryl's physically in the room while he's channeling to an audience or even coming through the internet, that vocal energetic level comes through and helps people attune to the frequency that you represent.

**Question:** Yes. Yes.

***

# Conversation 29: Levels of Mastery and Willa Hill Ching

**Question:** Okay. And um about the five levels of mastery, what level is the oldest person on Earth experiencing?

**Bashar:** Well on Earth at this time, your time, the oldest level is what you would call Sage. In Willa's time, in what you call the future, the highest level and the oldest level is the Wraith.

**Question:** Wraith. Um when is Willa Hill Ching's birthday and how old is the version who often comes through the channel? Is Willa artistic and have any passions we might not know of?

**Bashar:** The range of age that is often represented when Willa comes through the channel is somewhere in the 30s. It may fluctuate and vary a little bit although there are a few times when it can be much older depending on how the consciousness connects and what its purpose is in delivering information. Willa's birthday is what in your time you call St. Patrick's Day, March 17th. Her passions range in many ways but remember she is a parallel reality specialist. That is her greatest passion. Thus exploring the idea of parallel expressions of any individual has been a great passion for a lot of her life. Since she has in the older versions of her consciousness mastered the five levels. Also the exploration of the connections between physical reality and spirit are of paramount importance to her as well. Communication between the spirit world and the physical world is something that she excels at.

**Question:** I know a lot of people are looking forward to hearing more from Willa these days so I'm sure but there is a timing to these things and we understand it's been a while in your terms of time.

**Bashar:** But remember that for Willa and for us it would be in the blink of an eye when she next appears with the next information that is required for the idea of pursuing the cryptic path and moving into the nocturnal path. These things come at the correct timings. The amount of time in your reality has nothing at all to do with the amount of time that she perceives or that we perceive in terms of bringing the information through. It comes through when necessary and relevant. In the meantime it is very important to practice, practice, practice what she has already delivered. Because most of you who have received that information have not continually practiced it and therefore have not arrived at the level that is properly preparing you for the next level of information she would deliver. So if that is of your interest, practice, practice, practice.

***

# Conversation 30: Trees, Fires, and Earth's Core

**Question:** Um you and Willa told us how trees can see us through the lenses in their leaves. Yes. In winter when the leaves fall off can they no longer see us and are they less interactive with us during that season?

**Bashar:** To some degree. It's more of an inward idea. While they don't necessarily all have the lenses that they used to have, although some trees obviously maintain the leaves or foliage through the winter, but those that don't use a different technology, a different technique, a different kind of energy that is more of an inward energy, more of an introspective energy. And if you allow yourself to become more introspective at that time when the trees are also exhibiting that energy, you will find that there is another so-called bandwidth that they can communicate with you on. But it's a more introspective one, a more internal one.

**Question:** Um the trees certainly are very interesting. It was just occurring to me that between communication with like rocks and crystals versus trees which are physically anchored and can't move per se from one location to another except by pollination and things like that, yes, that communicating with trees is like a step in the direction of expanding your ability to communicate with things like rocks.

**Bashar:** Yes. With anything. As we said, trees, especially certain trees, are the ambassadors to the plant world. And therefore they connect to many other levels as well such as animals, such as the mineral world. So yes, they can be a go-between because they are shall we say less like you than an animal but more like you than a rock. So in a sense they are the go-betweens.

**Question:** I was sensing that. Um and the fires that happened at Big Basin with all those ancient trees, yes, are there some messages that perhaps we could glean from that that you might share with us?

**Bashar:** It is time for renewal. Time to let the old systems break down so that you can replace them with the new systems that your imaginations and your hearts have created. New growth within yourselves to reach higher, broader and replenish humanity, replenish the Earth. But the old systems are fading away, are burning out of your system.

**Question:** Okay. Thank you. Yes. Um recently we heard that the the core of the Earth has actually reversed its spin. It's reversing. Yes. Can you share some information about that and what that means for us etc.?

**Bashar:** Well it's a natural phenomenon that happens at regular cycles. It's a combination of the different forces, electromagnetic within the Earth and so on and so forth that causes it to go back and forth. Think of it this way: when you have a time piece as you say, tick and tock, tick and tock. The idea of going back and forth is part of the natural cycle that keeps pace, that allows there to be a pace that is kept. So the reversal of the Earth's core back and forth, tick and tock, tick and tock, is what keeps the Earth's electromagnetic energy vital and allows you to perpetuate in physical reality and connect to gravitic and electromagnetic forces in your solar system in a more balanced way. Tick and tock, tick and tock.

***

# Conversation 31: Memory Wipe and Religious Interpretation

**Question:** Okay. Thank you. Yes. Um this person's question is about the memory wipe that we agree to when we reincarnate. Yes. Is there a way to bypass that agreement so we're able to tap into more information that would be beneficial at this time? I found that the more important and profound information is to me the faster I seem to forget it. I have been absorbing so much information lately and it's often when I try to recall info to share with someone that it's just gone.

**Bashar:** Yes. This is a perfect case of understanding that you need to slow down to go faster. You're almost going too fast for yourself. So the idea is not to avoid the agreement but to work with it. To go through the processes that are necessary to use the information you're receiving in the moment and not rush through it in a hurry to share it with everyone else. But to really master the information for yourself so that it becomes your first nature to understand it. And then you'll be able to share it with others in the appropriate timing. But it's almost like you're attempting to rush ahead to dispense this information to everyone as if time is running out. Slow down and focus on the idea that everything will happen in perfect timing if you simply absorb the information and stay with the information in that moment to learn what you need to learn from the processes you will go through by having received that information. And not be in a hurry to rush ahead.

**Question:** Okay. And this person is saying that they come from an Islamic background. It's been difficult for them to be able to reconcile their faith to new information they've come across as to our origins, i.e. the Anunnaki. Muslims believe that the Quran is the direct revelation from God. And can you share some information or light on the origins of the Quran and who might have been channeling through the prophet Muhammad if not God? This is really important question to this person personally and they would appreciate an answer.

**Bashar:** All right. First of all, all things are God. Therefore many people who are sensitive may tap into the higher vibration. But remember there is always, especially in the ancient times, interpretation that is filtered through human understanding, human belief systems. So I'll just give you this: those kinds of figures do tap into higher vibrations and have a sense of bringing information through. But the idea is that you have to look at what part of it is the raw information and what part of it is the filtered information based on human belief systems. And I will just simply give you this clue and this hint: the Quran, like many religious doctrines, talks about the idea of a punishing God and the idea of punishment of humans and judgment in a negative sense. All of that information is representative of the human filtering process based on its understanding at the time of receiving information. Therefore it's a misinterpretation. If you understand that God does not judge, does not punish, but is unconditional love, then you will have the core essential filtering system by which to separate the original information in its raw form and the human interpretation that may have come through belief systems, even if the interpreter didn't realize that that's what was happening. So anything that smacks of judgment in a negative sense and punishment is not directly from God but a human interpretation of the idea that you judge yourselves, that you weigh yourselves in terms of what it is you believe you are or are not in alignment with when it comes to the vibration of unconditional love. You are the judges. You are the punishers. But humans tend to avoid looking at themselves that way so they assign it to the idea of God, which is not God, except as the human expression of God with its foibles, infallibles, and interpretive fear-based belief systems. Which is also part of God. But you have to understand that it is the interpretation coming through a human. So anything that smacks of punishment and judgment is not the shall we say purest form of the idea of unconditional love that is the vibration of existence itself. Which means it is the vibration of what you call God or Allah or Jehovah or Woka or whatever you want to call it. Because God doesn't care what you call it. Because God is everything and anything. And anything you can make up as a name to call it is fine because all things are God and there's nothing outside of it. That will be your answer for today.

***

# Conversation 32: Allowance, Suffering, and Life Review

**Question:** Okay. And one of our central understandings of God in that sense that you've shared with us is the idea of allowance. Yes. Can you help us understand why God is allowing of everything without allowing everything?

**Bashar:** Nothing can be disallowed. I know that's a simplistic answer but that's what we're going to say to you. Without allowance of everything, God is not God. God is not all that is. God does not put limitations on itself. It has to be everything in anything, everywhere and every when and everyone in order to be the idea of God, in order to be all that is. So limiting something by putting an allowance on the whole thing, there would be no experience of God. Because what do you choose to allow and what do you choose to not allow? That's a lower level, lower vibration, vibrational idea, interpretive idea within certain limited experiences, certain finite experiences. And have the idea of allowing this and not allowing that. And all of that takes place within God. But the whole thing has nothing to do with putting limitations. And it's not even about allowance. It's just what God is. It's not even an act of allowance. It's just what all that is is. It's just its nature to be all that is. So it doesn't even come into the idea of "oh I'll allow this and I'll allow that and I won't allow that." That's a human interpretation in a finite experience. But all that is is infinite. So how can you put limitations on the infinite? It can't be done.

**Question:** Okay. And um why would an aspect of all that is choose to come to this tough school called Earth to flex its muscles, to prove how tough it is? And aren't there more fun places to be where life is more pleasurable and you don't have to pay to play?

**Bashar:** Again it may seem to be a tough school. But why do some of your people go to college and institutions to learn things and find that they might be going through a challenging time to learn it? But their passion carries them through because they're really interested in learning those things. They're really interested in unlearning things as well. But the simple answer is that's different for everyone. There are many many reasons why different souls may choose to participate in something that seems like a tough school. And the idea of more pleasurable places has to do with your interpretation of the Earth than it does going to some other place that's not Earth. Allow yourselves to be your true selves and all the pleasure you seek can be found on Earth. It's just a matter of how you decide to live, how you decide to be yourself or not. So the toughness, remember as we have said, there are no inherently difficult situations. It's just your interpretation and definition that makes it difficult. So all the pleasure that you seek can be found on Earth if you allow yourself to be your true self. And again many people do choose to challenge themselves in a variety of ways because that's how they grow in a way that's unavailable to them in spirit. Because Earth and physical reality is unique. So why not?

**Question:** Yes. This person is saying I often tell my friends that we are spirit beings having a physical experience and that we create soul contracts and choose our parents along with our experiences before we become physical. Their responses typically go something like: nobody would sign up to have an abusive family or to be in a terrible accident that leaves them paralyzed. Am I wrong in what I'm saying?

**Bashar:** No. But again you have to understand there are more reasons than many people think. The idea is sometimes people or souls will do those kinds of things and choose those kinds of things not for themselves but for others. As we have often said, if you see somebody suffering, what will it take to get you to act to stop suffering in the future? So sometimes a person may choose to look like they're suffering because of what other people may then choose to do about that in your reality. It's not that they necessarily needed to experience it for their own soul growth, although I'm not saying they can't get something out of it out of that experience since all experiences are valid. But it may be in many cases: what are other people going to learn about witnessing things like that and will they be willing to do something about it in the future? So it's not just as simplistic as "oh why would anyone choose that?" There are a million reasons why people would choose that. It's just that it's not just always about them but about those around them, including the entire society, the entire planet. What will it take? Is the question. What will it take? Remember souls know they're indestructible. Souls know they're eternal. The idea of saying "all right I'm going to put a little pressure on myself for a little while because it may actually have a profound effect in changing people of Earth in a positive way and I'm willing to do that because I love unconditionally, love the people of Earth, and I'm willing to put myself through this challenge temporarily because it will make a big difference in what people do on Earth to create a more positive Earth." From the soul's perspective that's not such a big sacrifice at all.

**Question:** And it does seem like on Earth you can experience just about anything. I mean the extremes of negative and positive and everything in between is really amazing. You can go back in time by visiting other places. It seems like it's such a bountiful reality to be able to explore.

**Bashar:** Yes. In that context it's like a massive theme park with all sorts of rides. Some of them seem more simple and enjoyable per se. Some of them seem a little bit more terrifying like a very tall roller coaster. But people still go on them because it's a cathartic experience. It's a growth experience. And if they come through unphased, "oh well I mastered that, I got over my fear." So there are many reasons. As many reasons as there are people. It's overly simplistic to say "why would anyone choose that?" You're just not thinking deeply enough in your imagination when you ask a question like that.

**Question:** And so when people go through negative experiences here and then they go through life review, yes, can you explain how that all ties together so that it's not like this is a lawless reality where anything goes and you never have any consequences to anything you do? But at the same time life review is not a judgmental process?

**Bashar:** No. It's a learning process. But you will experience the results and the consequences of everything that you chose to do to learn from it. So there are always consequences. It may not seem so in physical reality but in spirit there are always consequences. But consequences don't mean punishment. Consequences means you have to face what the result is in a variety of ways on a variety of levels of what you chose to do and learn from it. It's an opportunity to learn. It's an opportunity to grow. It's an opportunity to choose where you're going to go from there and what you're going to experience from there.

**Question:** And basically what are the things that you've done to help us is to share with us the information on how all of this works so that we can make choices and experience our own version of heaven on Earth.

**Bashar:** Yes. And don't misunderstand us. We are not condoning negative acts by saying it's all right. There will be consequences later. The idea is still to learn that that's not necessarily in alignment with the idea of unconditional love in the way that it exists at the basis of existence itself. Remember there is a flow to this. So you can either swim upstream or you can go with the flow. In experiencing many negative things people can learn, and having caused the consequences of their actions to cause certain experiences in others, people can learn, spirits can learn that they don't necessarily want to go against the grain of existence but to go with the flow. So there's always the lesson to be learned. We are not condoning the idea of negative activity. But nevertheless spirits can learn from it even if they did choose to go that route.

**Question:** So thank you so much for clarifying a lot of these ideas for us.

**Bashar:** And yes it is our passion and our pleasure to do so.

***

## Meditation: The Window for Open Contact


**Bashar:** In the interest of the beginning of the window of open contact, allow yourself now to relax and go into the window portion, part one of the meditation for open contact probability increasing. And now we will move on to the meditation for part one of becoming a galactic citizen: The Window.

So relax. Enjoy. Play. Whatever you wish. Use whatever lighting you wish. But allow yourself to imagine that you are looking out the window from your house. And in the sky above you, imagine that you are seeing one extraterrestrial craft fly over, and then another, and then another, and another. Knowing that these things are there, passing above you all the time. There's a lot of traffic around your planet that you just don't see cuz you're not on the same vibratory level. But now this is your magic window with special glass that allows you to perceive what you could not perceive before. And as you breathe and stare in rapt attention at the sky outside the window, you start to see more and more of these craft all around. More and more at the same time in your skies, coming and going. The natural traffic of interdimensional space.

And now as you breathe and observe all these craft in the sky above you outside your window, you feel your heart opening up and you feel yourself sending out an invitation that says: "Love. We are love. We are connected in love. We are connected in spirit. And we invite more communication, more appearances, more connection, more contact, more awareness of each other. We are willing. We are open. We are here. We invite you to be here with us in love, in friendship, in beauty."

Holding that space, that sacred space. Breathe into it the invitation to attract, to open, to be willing to experience what is beyond. Be willing to see what could not have been seen before. Be willing to be a part of a galactic society. And any opportunity that you have to go out, as some of you have been doing in groups, looking at the sky, looking at the stars, and just open up your awareness. Don't insist. Don't need to see. Just invite with an open heart in a pure way. Expand the willingness to participate. And in love, invite others who are also willing to participate with you.

See the Earth becoming more open, more of the kind of vibrational reality that will allow others from other realities to also thrive upon your planet, to interact with you in beautiful relationships. Don't put any particular supposition on what form these relationships need to take. Don't insist. Just be open to the way the relationships naturally need to be. As you expand your connection to Earth and space, and expand your connection to higher mind and all of the energy within yourself, in your heart, in your mind, in your soul, in your spirit, just actively go out and invite light with an open heart, looking through this special window that allows you to see, that allows your perspective to expand, that allows your senses to become sharper to see what you could not see before.

Look out that window and go out into the world with that window, seeing through that glass all that is beyond, all that is appropriate and relevant for you to see. But be with an open heart, an invitation in love to invite in those who also love you. Breathe into this meditation every day, even for a few moments, will make all the difference in your ability to increase the probability of open contact that is to come. To navigate yourself in the direction of the version of Earth that will receive guests from the stars.

Look through this window, through this glass, and see what you could not see before. In your imagination let it be there first. In your reality let it come when it will be at peace. And be of open heart and love and say: "Welcome. We welcome you. We welcome you."

Breathe into this every day. We will proceed next time in the next transmission to allow you to look through the door and then ultimately the gate and then beyond. And as we progress over the next 3 months of your time, give it your imagination and give it your thoughts every day throughout these three months and you will massively increase the probability of experiencing the synchronicity of our connections and others' connections to you. You are not alone. You have never been alone. But now you will see with increased awareness and synchronicity what has been around you always.
