---
title: "Reflections"
description: ""
c: "purple"
author: Bashar
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
draft: true
date: 2024-03-09
---



Everyone is a reflection for everyone else.

Many people have thought that when they attract someone into their lives, the issues that that person brings with them is a one-to-one direct reflection of the issues in the person who has attracted them.

**This is not necessarily the case.**

Everyone is a reflection for everyone else. This means that there are many ways to understand the concept of someone being a reflection for you.

Reflection doesn't mean like a mirror that you're seeing exactly in them what you contain.

Look at:
- what people bring into your life
- what you have attracted both in people and in circumstances into your life

Determine whether there is some advice or information that you can apply to yourself in this scenario that you've attracted that would help you improve yourself.

Be humble enough to know that there may be information for you in what you have attracted that can help you change in a way that will allow you to be more complete, more fully representative of your true self.

If you can determine with honest self-investigation that the situation or person you have attracted in your life that seems to have certain kinds of fear-based or negative issues or things that don't necessarily seem to be relevant for you immediately can still be a reflection of your willingness to be of service and assistance to someone else by helping them understand that there may be another way, another path, an alternative method or other information they have not considered that can help them make the changes they need to make in their lives.

So the idea is to understand that when we talk about everyone being a reflection for everyone else, we don't mean that what they have is necessarily what you have. A reflection can still be indicative of your willingness to be of assistance, to be a guide, to be of help in some way, shape or form, to provide alternative ideas, helpful ideas, tools that they may not have considered to help them change in the ways that will allow them to bring through more of who they truly are and to align with their higher minds.

So please understand that the idea of reflection is multi-dimensional and you have to have the honest self-investigation to be able to tell whether or not the people that come into your lives are actually reflective of something you need to know or whether it is simply reflective of your willingness to be of service to them in some way, shape or form.

So we thank you for allowing us to clarify this idea of what it means for everyone to be a reflection of everyone else. And we ask you now in what way may we continue to be of service to you. Please begin with your dialogues and your questions if you wish.



{{< r a="Alexandra" >}}
This is Alexandra from the UK. I have a difficulty to get over the challenge of feeling unworthy. It is with guilt. It has been my best friend since a long time. So I know I've followed you a while now and I know that you say what do we benefit from having these things hanging over us and I cannot find the answer in me. So am I lying to myself or is it a blind spot? And I thought Bashar is so wonderful maybe he will know.
{{< /r >}}


You don't hold on to anything that you don't believe you're getting something out of. So, what benefits do you believe you're getting by holding on to guilt? Guilt, in a sense like anger, when it's in its natural form, is simply a mechanism that exists within you to let you know when you might be out of integrity, out of alignment with your true vibration. That recognition is enough to allow you to then decide, all right, I'm going to choose to bring myself back into alignment. 

I'm going to change my behaviors, my beliefs, my actions, whatever that will allow you to bring yourself back into alignment. But the idea of continuing to feel guilt or anger is then the continuance into self-judgment. Finding yourself undeserving, unworthy simply because you allowed the mechanism to inform you when you were out of alignment. And now you are in recrimination and self-judgment about having been out of alignment instead of bringing yourself back into alignment. So people that spend time in guilt, wallowing in guilt, wallowing in self-pity are getting something out of it. Otherwise, they wouldn't continue to do so. So you may be afraid of realigning yourself because that may seem scarier than simply wallowing in something so familiar as guilt, which gives you attention and allows you to play the victim. So the idea is to let go of victimization and victimhood and allow yourself to move forward using guilt and anger as a mechanism to simply inform you when you have been out of alignment. And then have the ability and the willingness to bring yourself back into alignment and use guilt in a positive way and anger in a positive way rather than simply continuing to wallow in it because you're afraid to move forward. Good day. How exciting.

Thank you Bashar for this perfect reflection today. Thank you. So I am understanding more how everything is my reflection and it's this beautiful dance between illusion and truth and everything is just source energy working in harmony just to show me what needs to be realigned. I feel that the subconscious belief barriers that I'm working with are mostly with powerlessness. And I'm wondering with my vibrational signature, what is reflecting that's creating my dog's reflection towards my daughter? If you could elaborate on that.

She was kind of getting a little bit aggressive with her. So I was wondering what was it within me that was creating that experience?

It may not be within you. It may be within your daughter.

Oh, okay. How old is your daughter?

She's almost 10 months.

All right. Well, the dog may be exhibiting the idea of the introduction of a new family member, finding it to be uncomfortable since the dog does not necessarily understand where the dog fits into what you may consider to be your family pack. So if you can explain with imagery telepathically to the dog that the position of the dog has not been usurped, that the dog can allow itself to understand the position it occupies in the family pack, then it can settle down and accept the new member as not being someone who will replace the dog in terms of the dog's natural position in your pack.

Okay. Thank you. And just through telepathic imagery, through imagery, you can reassure the dog by having the image of everyone being in harmony in the pack and everyone being in their proper position and not being left out in any way, shape, or form.

Beautiful. Thank you. That's wonderful. Thank you. I was wondering also, with my cat who recently transitioned to spirit world, what was my reflection to her and vice versa?

Well, again, you need to be very specific because cats usually represent your ability to stretch your senses into the spirit world to see things more holographically and multi-dimensionally as they perceive things. So, can you say that the cat did that for you? That you were able to use the cat's energy and perspective to explore the idea of your own spirituality and extend your senses in multi-dimensional ways.

Absolutely. Thank you for the reminder. All right. Again with reflections, I was curious as to rituals that I've been performing, aka permission slips. When I'm doing these rituals, am I reflecting to myself like a process to center myself or am I actually invoking these spirits? I guess I just need to know.

Well, again, it depends upon what you believe you're using the ritual for. It can be in either direction and it can be both because beings are paying attention to what you're doing. If you are using it because your belief system says you need that particular permission slip to increase your ability to perceive communication from the spirits, then that is what it will be for. If you are using it to center yourself, that is what it will be for because it's up to you to determine what it is you're using any permission slip for. And it can be both simultaneously because centering yourself can make you more receptive to communication from spirits as well.

Okay, thank you. I just that that rang true. Thank you. During one of these rituals, I felt these spiderwebs kind of go around me. Maybe I'm delusional, but was that real or was it during a...

It may have been contact by a spirit. Sometimes the electromagnetic energy is a very light form of physical materiality and can feel like a gossamer web brushing across you. So it can simply be the effect of a spirit in a sense touching you and you being sensitive enough to feel the very light material that spirits are using to create a connection to physical reality.

That's exciting. I've been playing with a being who's located within the earth and I've been... I just wanted clarification if that's... You mean in another dimension?

Yeah. My process is how I do it is I kind of go into the earth and I bring her flowers every time. So I was just wondering if that was like a real being or part of myself.

Well, anything is a part of yourself because remember you're creating your version out of your own energy to interact with anything. It doesn't mean that another being is not real even though you're creating your version of it. But what you're interacting with is your version of it and interacting with the other being through your version of it. Our sense is telling us that what you're doing is interacting with an elemental.

Oh, cool. Oh, I love it. Okay. Thank you.

When I'm feeling these presences at nighttime, I feel them more at nighttime and it kind of gives this fearfulness. Anyways, I was just wondering, am I feeling them physically or am I feeling them telepathically?

You are feeling them energetically because again the idea is exposure to the energy of a different level of reality can bring things up within you that you haven't integrated and that may be where the fear is coming from. We are going to talk more about this kind of interaction and humanity's reaction to it in some of the upcoming transmissions in your November and December months.

Yay. Thank you. The hybrid children... Oh, in my last... Oh, sorry.

There was this creature in the ocean after a comet went through and me and my cousin Shane, it was a few years ago in May, I believe, in the summer. A comet went through and then there was this... You mean passed through your solar system?

Yes. But then there was like this weird creature in the ocean that was kind of luring my dog into the water. What are you describing as a weird creature?

It was just scary, I guess. And it was like had like a long tentacle, so it seemed very prehistoric to me. Maybe it wasn't what I...

So when you say luring your dog, you simply mean the dog was interested in it.

Well, my fear popped up thinking that it was luring it into the water to eat it. But that could have just been my fear.

It was just your fear. Okay. Thank you. There are collections of certain kinds of small microorganisms that can actually bond together to form long worm-like tentacle-like structures.

Oh, how interesting. Thank you.

In our last communication, you told me about these hybrid children that were interacting with moving the stroller and I was wondering are those same hybrid children, are they older now or are they children still?

In a sense they are older, but again remember the time for them is not what it is for you. They can interact with you throughout different ages of their being. So in one moment they may be the younger versions and in another moment they may be the older versions. You cannot necessarily compare directly their ages to your reality until such time as they actually come to live among you physically. And then their ages will in a sense be locked or frozen into how they appear to you when they come to live in your reality because they will have made a shift into your vibrational reality and it will freeze them at a particular age that is appropriate for them and for the relationship they will need to have with you. So even if when they freeze into your physical reality, so to speak, appear to be young, it may have been that you interacted with an older version of them when they were in their reality too. So you can't necessarily rely on how they appear in your reality for how they were being in their reality.

Understandably. I hugged the air when that had happened, was I hugging a hybrid?

You were making a gesture that was received as a form of connection or hug if you wish, but you were not literally doing so. You probably thought it was so weird.

So this might be a silly question, but my daughter obviously probably has connections with the hybrid children as well. Yes. So I was just wondering what her part in the hybrid agenda is and how I could support her with it.

Well, she will be obviously of a generation that will be alive when the hybrid children come to live among you. So many of the children that are young today on your planet will be those who will have specific relationships and interactions with their brothers and sisters and cousins in the hybrid children community when they come to live in the sanctuaries on the earth.

Beautiful. I had a miscarriage in 2016 and I spoke with that soul. I was wondering if she was that same soul.

In a manner of speaking. Yes. But she is more than that now.

Perfect. How many times have I been pregnant and successful with a hybrid child?

I am not allowed to tell you that.

That's okay. I can't help but ask.

How can we reflect better questions to utilize our interactions with you to the fullest of our capacity capabilities?

Follow the formula. You will be inspired to know what you need to know and to ask what you need to ask in the proper timing. The circumstances and situations that will synchronistically crop up in your life will give you the ability to know what subjects are important for you to talk about at any particular moment that you may be interacting with us.

Wonderful. I just wanted to make sure that we were still up to the standards.

There are no standards that you need to achieve other than being yourself.

Thank you for the reminder and thank you for this beautiful reflection perfectly.

It is our passion and our pleasure to do so.

Hey Bashar I was wondering what are the key beliefs that every person should have? So if you could just wipe the slate clean and start a person from scratch, sort of those key five, ten or more beliefs and then definitions that are absolutely critical for someone to be happy, healthy, and live a good life. Also, how do you know what's the best way to kind of go about overwriting and instilling those beliefs? And then how do you know once they are fully believed in and part of their being? Thanks for your time.

They become integrated within the synchronicity that happens in your life. When you fully integrate a belief system, you will know it because your life will change to reflect it. And you will be less likely to believe anything else because you will now have the reflective experience of the new belief that constantly happens in your life. It creates a kind of momentum that actually makes it seem unnecessary and illogical to go in any other direction.

But the idea of following the formula will help you get in touch with whatever beliefs don't work for you. In humanity, some of the fundamental fear-based and negative beliefs have to do with your sense of worthiness and deservability and empowerment. You are all worthy. You are all self-empowered. You are all connected to source. You are all a reflection of the infinite. You are co-creators. You create your reality. It is an understanding of these principles that will allow you to function in a more holistic way as a self-empowered being in your lives. And when you start functioning that way and following the formula as precisely as possible, synchronicity will reflect that to you in the events and situations that happen in your life. And you'll be able to take advantage of them to positive effect no matter what happens. So it is that ability to know what state of being you prefer to be in regardless of what's happening around you that becomes one of the hallmarks of being centered within yourself and being aligned with your higher mind.

Hi Bashar, good day. So my question centers around discernment between manifesting versus having a premonition. Long story short, when I was little, I saw a horse race on TV that was somewhat traumatic for me. A horse was getting ready to run, tripped coming out of the gate. After the initial assessment, they thought the horse was fine. The horse was permitted to run. At the end of the race, I don't really recall all the detail, but the horse was euthanized on the track and I had this very vivid memory of that. So fast forward to about 15 years ago now. I had never watched a horse race since. I wouldn't have let myself. It was just something I couldn't do. So I watched a horse race. I was very nervous about it because the same visual from what I have in my memory was playing out in my head. And my friends were like convincing me that I'm not that powerful. I can't recreate something like that and don't worry about it and just enjoy the horse race. So I did and the horse race went beautifully and fine. There was another horse race two weeks later and this horse literally played out scene by scene like the memory in my head. He tripped coming out of the gate. They gave an initial assessment. They said he was fine. He ran the race or part of the race. He broke his leg. They didn't euthanize him on the track like in my memory. They were able to do multiple surgeries. They thought the horse was going to be fine.

And then I had a horrible I don't know if it was a premonition or I hope it's not a manifestation, but a very, very lucid dream. And I was caressing and stroking the horse's face as it was laying down on the ground and being euthanized. And I woke up in a very panicked state. And I had been crying, it seemed like, forever because my whole body was wet, my face was wet, my pillowcase was wet with tears. And I was very worried about the horse. So I called my mom in a panic and asked if the horse was okay. And she was like trying to urge me to calm down. "The horse is doing great. They've got webcams on him. The horse has never been better." And then three days later, the horse was euthanized.

So I've always kind of carried that with me, worrying that my deep emotion and attachment to that bad memory when I was little recreated the scene. It didn't so much recreate the scene as a manifestation, but since you were so affected by the first incident, you took yourself, your senses recognized when a parallel reality would match the first one and shifted yourself to that reality because you were so connected to it, so strongly pulled to it. So you shifted yourself to another parallel reality that was very similar because in a sense you were on alert for those kinds of incidents. So you shifted yourself to a reality in which that occurred as an apparent repeat but a new experience similar to the first experience because there are many parallel realities that are similar to one another. So because of the way you anchored and connected to the first incident, you always were in a sense on alert for connecting to a similar incident in a parallel reality and thus gave yourself the opportunity to do that.

Now doing so did give you the ability to ease the pain of the horse. You did assist the horse in its transition because of your connection to it, because of your love for it. So it was something that was used to the benefit of the horse that was about to transition. It gave you the opportunity in the second event to do something you didn't necessarily have the ability to do in the first event, which was connect to a similar event, but be there for the horse to aid and assist in its transition in a more peaceful way. Do you understand?

Yes. That's super helpful. I've been carrying with me for so long and I've asked so many people and I just... because it literally played out scene by scene the way I had in my memories and I was such a good manifestor at the time and I really vowed basically never to manifest anything again because I was so horrified that I could have manifested this beautiful...

You didn't cause it to happen if that's what you mean by manifestation. You simply shifted yourself to experience the manifestation of a similar reality.

Okay. So yes, in a sense you manifested it for yourself, but it's not like you caused the horse to experience that.

Okay. Thank you. That's helpful. Speaking of parallel realities, I do have another question. So in another very lucid dreamlike state, but this one wasn't analogous to that really other than it was a very lucid dreamlike state. And a person came to me, not in an off-putting way, not in a scary way, in a very sweet way. And this person, I didn't know if he was even part of this dimension, part of this world or not. But just very gentle, sweet conversations like we had been together for years and years and years. It was like a not a recurrent dream, but like a progressive dream. And then night after night he would introduce me to his mom and then he introduced me to his children and then I actually ran into him and I realized that he is a being on this planet and this dimension and it was very weird for me because I almost felt like I knew so much about his life which I've all now validated to be accurate and correct and true. But my question is again back to manifestation. Does that mean it's something that he and/or I are manifesting a relationship of sorts or does he actually appear in these dreams? These dreams are so real and tactile.

You understand dream state. You understand that as above, so below. Things exist in spirit first. You can decide to play them out in physical reality, but you set it up as an experience by agreement in a sort of energy blueprint in spirit, and then if it serves a purpose in the agreement you have with other beings, you can allow it to crystallize or manifest in physical reality for whatever reason serves each of you. So you are simply adept at understanding and perceiving that things are played out first in spirit. You could call it in a sense a practice round, a rehearsal for what might eventually manifest in physical reality. And since you're sensitive enough to perceive the rehearsal level in spirit, you have the advantage of having information that you carry with you into the manifestation when it occurs by agreement in the physical lives as well. Does that make sense?

It does. Thank you. So, does he have awareness of these dreams as well?

To some degree. But again, he may not wish to have that memory when he realizes or manifests it in physical reality. He may wish it to be more of a surprise or a spontaneous occurrence. So he may not remember it by choice.

Oh, interesting. Okay. I think the dreams are actually changing now. They're not quite as realistic. They're getting a little like I don't know if you call them a hybrid dream where I've had dreams recently that I know it's a dream in my dream and...

Well, that's a lucid dream. If you know you're dreaming when you're dreaming, that's the definition of being lucid in your dream state.

Okay. So, but in the dreams, it's interesting. Like I was showing in one of my recent dreams, I was showing one of my friends around his house and then I saw a security camera and it felt weird because I didn't know how to explain to him that we got dropped in via a dream into his house and I didn't know how I was going to explain that.

Well, what's so difficult about explaining it?

Well, I was worried how I was going to explain it to him in 3D reality, basically.

Did you have to explain it?

No, no, no, no, no. I don't. It was just the dreams are changing a little and that I'm having more and more awareness of...

All right. Well, that's a good part of it. It's not... it's all real. It's just happening on different levels. You understand? There are different levels to your reality.

Yeah. It's just interesting because after all this then I start seeing pictures and all of a sudden just group pictures and he'll be in the background but I didn't know that... I don't know it's just... it's all fascinating to watch.

It is and you'll get used to it, but again you simply have retained the ability to perceive realities on different levels simultaneously and so you are more aware of having experiences on the different levels.

Okay. I have one last dream-like question for you.

One last question.

So I've had a couple of these. So I know when I was little, too, I would get, I think it's called sleep paralysis where you wake up and your whole body feels very paralyzed and like you're being pressed down into the floor and pressed into the foot of the bed and it's kind of hard to breathe.

Yes, we understand what it is.

And when I was little, I would see beings, but they weren't scary. I didn't know if I should be scared or not, but they did not seem scary.

You do not need to be scared.

I've had a couple of these same experiences, but they were more scary. And once I opened up my eyes after... It's always my right pinky that can start to move first and I get sensation back on my right side. And it's like someone or something was shining this... I was awake but a neon bright flashlight in my eyes. But then I fell back asleep. But then I get the sensation again of the sleep paralysis and I could wake myself up and this time I knew he wasn't real, I don't know. But so I went and I put my hands like into this being's face and it was very disconcerting because I could feel his eyelashes and lumpy eyelids on the back side of my fingers. And people have said, "Oh, that was a spirit or that was a reptilian and this and that and you need to do a better job of protecting yourself." So I just didn't know what that...

No, no, no. You are part of the hybridization agenda. You do have encounters and contacts with different kinds of beings, including the grays and other kinds of beings. But it's only scary now because you're more of an adult that is containing more things that you need to integrate within yourself. The idea is that again the paralysis is often a way of stabilizing your energy so that when you are shifted to another reality you don't go flying off into the ethers. It's a common side effect of shifting from one reality to another because the idea is the paralysis is an indication that you're trying to move in your typical reality but you're not in your typical reality fully and therefore you can't move because you have to move differently in the alternate reality. Sometimes you are shifted by these beings into that alternate reality and the transition from one to another can cause the sensation of this paralysis because you're not really sure what reality you're in anymore and don't know how to move where you are. But there's nothing to be afraid of. It's just that the vibration of these beings coming from a different reality will force certain things within you as an adult, certain belief systems within you to come to the surface. And they may also activate the idea of your survival mechanism because the physical mind can when it's shifted to a different reality feel like it's dying. This is something we're going to explain more clearly in a couple of upcoming transmissions.

Thank you so much.

There is nothing to be afraid of.

Thank you. Thank you very much. Because yeah, I've been better at that recently. Last question that I have for you is much more light-hearted. I know as many of us here, I've been very touched by experiences with dolphins both on this plane and in meditation type states and whales and those type of beings who I think are just so magical and whimsical. And I've been taught over the years, I don't know if this is true, that they're here to hold the vibration of the planet until we can do so.

In a sense, yes, in a sense they are.

Are we waiting for getting better?

They're waiting for some of you to catch up. Some of you are getting better at it. Not everyone is getting better at it because not everyone needs to. But enough of you are getting better at it that you will shift to the version of Earth where you will be more in harmony with them.

Okay. Thank you very much.

You are very welcome.

Hi Bashar. My question is, do we all have the ability to channel higher beings as Darryl does for you or do we have to reach a certain stage of enlightenment before that opportunity happens? Or is it something that we can just simply tune in and tap into? Thank you.

Not everyone needs to channel other beings, but everyone can channel. Whether it be the idea of an artistic expression or whether it be another portion of your own consciousness or your own higher mind, when you are doing what you love to do, you are in a channeling state. But whatever it is you bring through from that state doesn't necessarily have to be a connection to another being. That is simply something that is made by agreement. It can happen. Everyone has the general potential for that. But not everyone has made an agreement to do it that way. So you have to find your own way of bringing it through. Whatever you are attracted to, synchronicity will bring you the opportunities to allow you to express it in the way that works best for you according to the agreements you have made to explore the themes in this life. So just follow your passion, follow the formula and see what synchronicity brings you as the way in which being in the channeling state may need to be expressed that is relevant for you.

Hi Bashar. Good day.

Good day.

So I have chosen to serve people in the form of being a relationship coach. Oh all right. How exciting.

Thank you. And I do this through the teachings of masculine and feminine energies and the dichotomy of that in relationships. Yes. So I want to make sure that I'm not spreading any misinformation. I was wondering if you could clarify how the duality of masculine and feminine energies applies to romantic relationship dynamics.

Well, the idea is for each side to be reflected what they need to allow for a balance to occur on each side of both masculine and feminine energy in each individual. Does that make sense?

So if it is correct to say that men operating from more feminine or wounded feminine energy are imbalanced and therefore need to attract partners that will reflect that imbalance?

The idea is that each male and each female contains the ability of the opposite, contains the reflections of the opposite. And to balance them and bring them out equally in each individual is the key. So that males have a balance of masculine and feminine energy. Not meaning that they literally become more feminine, but they are able and willing to express more of the receptive energies. Whereas the females in balance can express more of the idea of the assertive energies that are commonly associated with males on your planet. So that each individual in the relationship is a balance of both. And they will usually attract into their lives, whether they know it or not, whether they take advantage of it or not, those individuals who will reflect to each what they need to achieve that balance within themselves.

When that balance is reached, is that usually when partners stay together or...?

It doesn't mean that they have to. It can be that that was what they needed to achieve and then they move on to something else. So it's not necessarily absolutely expected that they have to stay together, but there is certainly a higher probability that they can if they continue to serve each other in that way. Does that help?

Absolutely. Yes. All right.

Is there a technique or strategy that I can use as a coach in my one-on-one sessions to best reflect back to my clients what they need to know at that time to help them reframe their mindset to move forward?

Well, you can ask them what their definition of the opposite energy is, and you can get them to explore any fear-based beliefs that surround it, so they can be willing to let those fear-based beliefs go about the incorporation of the duality. Does that make sense?

Could you clarify it a bit?

In other words, let's say you are, for example, dealing with a male individual who is exhibiting a lot of masculine energy but not very much of the feminine side. You can engage them in a conversation to ask them what their definition would be, how they see, how they view, how they define the idea, what it means to them if they were to incorporate more of the feminine energy within themselves. To see if their definition is something that actually is representative of balance or if their definition out of fear is representative of something that is not in balance, that they have an erroneous definition of what that balance would look like. So that you can begin to explore what their definitions of the balance would actually be like so that they can lose the fear of incorporating the balance within themselves by having a more harmonious definition of what would happen should they do so. Did that make more sense?

Yes. And in the case where a male that has less feminine heart-centered energy and I run into this problem where clients don't often experience emotions and are shut down. I don't know how to help guide them through that situation through online interactions.

All right. Well, again the question is fundamentally what are they afraid would happen if they actually allowed themselves to feel those emotions? What are they afraid the outcome of that would be? To get them to start exploring if they're willing to start exploring what the outcomes they're afraid would happen if they did in fact allow their emotions to be more expressed. And then perhaps you will have some information to go off of if they're willing to admit it. Okay? If they're not, there's not much you can do for them.

How does one know when they have found that partner? I know I've seen a video where you said that the purpose of relationships is to reflect to one another what one needs to know to become more of themselves. How do you know that you are the version of yourself that is ready to commit and has learned that lesson?

You will feel freer. You will feel lighter in the presence of a person who serves you that way if you're willing to be open to it. You will actually feel more like yourself. You have heard this phrase on your planet uttered in those kinds of relationships where people say, "I feel more like me in your presence. I feel I can be expressive of who I truly am when you're around." That kind of feeling is usually a reflection of when someone is serving you to be more of yourself because they are not judging you. They are accepting you for who you are and accepting whatever processes you may need to go through to discover more clearly who you are. And so that usually translates as feeling free to be yourself in that relationship, whatever that means at the moment. Free to explore being more. It's a lightness of feeling. It's a lightness and feeling of freedom.

Does that help you at all?

Yes, that was very beautiful and poetic. I loved it. All right. How accurate is using astrology? Is it something?

It depends on the person. Remember that all things in physical reality are permission slips. Some permission slips work for people and some don't. It depends on whether it aligns with your belief system. If it does, it will work for you. If you're attracted to use it, the attraction is usually a sign that it's aligning with your belief system and will work for you. Ultimately, of course, you realize you are the ultimate permission slip because you're the one making the changes anyway and that eventually you no longer need the permission slip itself to make those changes. But it can illuminate sometimes and reflect to you some of the things that are going on within your consciousness because you believe it is something that can work for you. So it depends on the person and what their belief system is about that particular permission slip. And remember all those things are reflections. They're not causes.

Okay. My last question is, what do I need to know at this moment that will help me in my journey of helping others through what I do?

What you need to know is that a healer simply provides an opportunity to explore options that the person needing to be healed needs to match and align with in order to heal themselves. A healer never heals anyone directly, but they give the person the opportunity to heal themselves. Whatever a person does with whatever it is you share with them is none of your business. You have done all you can just by providing the option and the opportunity to match the frequency you're giving off in order for that person to decide to heal themselves. It's not that they have to do that. And many people may come to you with different agendas including the inability to heal themselves. So you have still given them what they came for. So you have to relax the idea that you need to heal everyone and save everyone because you can't do that. You can only provide them with the option that someday they may incorporate within themselves when they are ready to do so. Does that lighten the issue for you?

Yes. Thank you so much Bashar.

You are so welcome.

Hello Bashar from Switzerland. I had a question regarding the hybridization agenda that you mentioned that we can choose to become the sixth hybrid race and I'm asking what is so beneficial for us to become this hybrid race since we are mixing our DNA with a race that went through a negative path. Of course they went through a big transformation, but what are we gaining from becoming this hybrid race since we are receiving a lot of downloads and information from you? But in terms of the DNA exchange, what is the win situation for us? Thank you for your reply. Have a nice day.

You have a misunderstanding. You are not mixing DNA with a group that went through a negative path. You're mixing with the hybrids who have never experienced that path. The grays experienced the negativity, but the hybrids have not. Therefore, you are mixing with a different form of humanity that has never experienced negativity. That is what helps you uplift. That is what raises your vibration, is taking advantage of the information and perspectives of a group of beings that are a different form of human that have only experienced the idea of positive vibrations that move you forward in your evolutionary path to becoming the sixth hybrid race, which is simply another way of saying that you are functioning more fully as human beings, which most of you actually aren't yet fully human.

Hello Bashar and everyone. Good day.

Good day.

I had a dream that I'd like to get your insight on. I was traveling to and moving into an abandoned southwestern home. I went to the kitchen and opened up a rectangular door about three foot long and there was a diminutive alien skeleton in it that was glowing orange. Had an orange metallic tunic, Native American beads, a feather headdress with red, white, blue, yellow, orange feathers that were molded. It certainly wasn't of this world. I opened the oven and another skeleton was in flames, but I don't think it was being consumed. This felt like a very deeply sacred and spiritual experience that I felt honored to be a part of and it's just kind of baffled me. It just impacted me so much. Do you have any thoughts or comments?

Yes. What you experienced to some degree is a recognition and a perception of the interaction between some ancient extraterrestrial beings and the indigenous tribes of your southwest in the past. Many indigenous tribes, many indigenous peoples on your planet have had contact with extraterrestrial and extra-dimensional beings for hundreds if not thousands of years. The irony is that while many people on your planet are waiting for open contact, many indigenous peoples have had open contact for quite a long time. It's just that in their cultures, they don't necessarily share that readily with other cultures who don't know that's going on. And in the cultures that don't know it's going on, their belief systems often prevent them from accepting the fact that that's been happening in the indigenous cultures. So on one level you're perceiving the fact that this has been going on for quite some time. You're picking up on some very ancient vibrations, ancient encounters represented by the blending of those ET forms with ancient Atlantean and Aztec kinds of regalia that they are wearing, which represents the idea of the blending and the interactions and connections between the two and how many ancient indigenous peoples are actually the ancestors of some of those extraterrestrial beings.

The idea of the being on fire in the oven is a representation of the kind of power and energy that they bring with them in coming from one dimension, one reality to another. You are perceiving a connection between your physical reality and a different reality being expressed to you in those symbolic forms with connections to these ancient extraterrestrial consciousnesses. Does that help you?

Yes. Wow, that's so powerful. Thank you. In December of 2010, I woke up and received a download and it was elements of this incredible story, an iconic mythical figure, modern times that has a connection with Atlantis. And I could see this story being like a combination of the magic of Harry Potter with the intrigue of the Da Vinci Code and an epic tale of Lord of the Rings. I could see this story being shared to share spiritual context concepts in an entertaining way. I spent years researching Atlantis, the Thule society, Hyperborea, ancient civilizations, megalithic cultures, and I'm just stuck. I've not been able to write. I'm a good writer, but I write usually like marketing materials. Fiction and character development, I'm just having a hard time. But my research has led me to you and I'm just wanting to know maybe is my purpose to the journey to be here or am I to write this? I'm just stuck. I don't know what to do.

All right, you can write it. But are you familiar with the idea of story structure?

Well, no, not really.

All right. So it might be of assistance to you to investigate the concept of story structure because in the telling of any tale, in the telling of any story, it is highly critical, highly important to make sure you are following story structure because story structure is built into the psyche of humanity. And if you tell a story with the salient points, the salient, shall we say, beats of a story structure that are built into your psyche, then people will remember the story. It will feel authentic. If you miss any of those beats, it won't feel authentic. It won't resonate. This is why stories last for thousands of years. Because if the pattern is followed of story structure, it resonates with that structure in all of your psyches. So we would suggest that you investigate the idea of story structure and follow that general outline. Get used to the understanding of what kind of beats need to be in a story, how they need to be presented, when they need to be presented. Then you can loosen up the structure a little bit according to the way your intuition will drive the story forward. But following the structure in general is highly important to tell the story in the correct way. Since you don't have a framework for what story structure is, that may be where you're getting slowed down.

Yeah. It was some great elements, but I just don't know how to proceed. I have a main character, but I don't have anything else.

All right. Well, again, story structure can inform you as to what the main character needs to go through in order for it to seem relevant to your readers. You may avail yourself of many books that exist in your society about story structure. One of the most popular being the idea called The Hero's Journey by Joseph Campbell.

Yep. Yeah, I'm familiar with that one. Have you read it?

No, but I am familiar with Joseph Campbell. I've read several of his books.

All right. Well, you have not read The Hero's Journey then.

No.

All right. That is the one specifically that outlines the idea of story structure. You can also avail yourself of several that are connected to the idea of the film industry because they also talk about the importance of story structure even though it may be presented in filmic terms.

Yeah. So great. Thank you. Familiarize yourself with that and when you understand the story structure it will inform your character and inform you as to what your character needs to experience.

Wonderful. So after this download, I made a commitment to it that I would follow wherever that took me. And a few months later, my longtime marriage ended. And just kind of to summarize briefly, I kind of went into a dark night of the soul. One morning I woke up and there was an energetic presence and immediately Paul McCartney's song "Let It Be" – "When I find myself in times of trouble, Mother Mary comes to me" – and I just got this overwhelming sense of unconditional love. Yes. And then a few minutes later, I had a vision of a woman in a scarlet dress who was very strong spirited woman, but also very loving. And these experiences just baffled me. A couple of days later I was in a state of well-being and bliss immediately, but that lasted a couple of days and I so I knew this was real because my reality had been completely altered.

Yes. It's up to you to continue the vibration once you've been exposed to it. All you have to do is remember what that felt like when that vision came to you and you're actually back in that frequency even though it may feel different.

What is the origin of these? I just called it energetic presence but yes, but you called upon the idea of Mary as a reflection but not the Mother Mary. You called upon the Magdalene.

Okay. Hence the scarlet dress.

Yes. Yes, that makes sense. Thus the idea of standing within your self-empowerment, being the one to tell the stories, being the one to hold the information, the one to spread it among the people. This is what the Magdalene was responsible for in taking the information that was provided by the individual known as Jesus and spreading it among the disciples. The Magdalene was the primary disciple responsible for spreading the information. So you are calling upon her fortitude to spread the information that you need to spread. She is encouraging you to move forward with that.

Wow.

Final final question. So I live in an area in southern Illinois that's nicknamed Little Egypt. Yes, we have a Luxor. Town's named Luxor, Thebes, Karnak, Cairo. Comically also I live in a town that had the motto "Hub of the Universe." I live in a small town, not Midwest, not hub of the earth or galaxy, hub of the universe. Is this just small town egocentric thinking or is there something to this and the Little Egypt theme?

You know there is something to it and that's why you're there. So it helps you with your connections, the connections you have made to aid and assist you in this life to move forward in your themes of exploration and your expression of your passion. So it gives you a kind of a center balance point from which you can expand yourself, from which you can express yourself. So it is usable and recognizable as the energy of a vortex that you can draw upon to center yourself, balance yourself and come from your center to be the hub of your universe.

Awesome. Thank you so much Bashar. I'm so grateful and grateful for our community here.

Our deep appreciation to you as well. Please move forward with your truth.

Thank you. Good day.

Hi, Bashar. Quick question. At a session with you, you confirmed that I had hybrid children and that I was being taken by the grays. I went to a hypnotist to try to have some memories of any of those instances. There was nothing that came up. I've watched shows where people had remembrances of being on a ship and having DNA taken and had scary experiences. Was I just not supposed to remember any experiences? Were all the memories erased or what happens in those instances where you can't pull up any information? Thank you so much.

It may be that it is not appropriate for you to remember certain incidents. At the same time, it may simply be engineered to be time-released within you. So that when you do begin to remember, it gives an indication of when you may be ready for more information, like a barometer of how close you are to being more conscious of the contacts that will occur in the future. So you can try to retrieve these messages and memories that you were given in those experiences. If they don't come, don't worry about it. If it is necessary for you to know, you will know when the timing is right. If it isn't necessary, you won't know it. But that doesn't really matter. And it won't stop you from experiencing the contact. Just keep moving forward in your life. Follow the formula. You will raise your frequency. And sometimes raising your frequency will give you the ability to remember things that have happened in the encounters you may have had.

Good day.

Good day. My burning question is as my mom and I were very close. I dream of her quite a bit. She passed in 2020. She went willingly and peacefully, meaning she had a stroke and didn't want to pursue fighting so much. She was 98. She did not want to linger. Yes, we understand. She was ready to go. Is she communicating with me? Because yes, I think I feel she is.

Yes, many spirits will and very often it will happen in the dream state because your physical mind is kind of out of the way and therefore it's easier for them to reach you in the dream state. But also look towards synchronicities that remind you of her. Those can also be representative of a communication from spirit. You never lose anyone when they transition over. It may be even that they are even more capable of helping you from the other side. So pay attention to the signs and symbols because many people receive communications from spirits more often than they think.

And my dad I wasn't as close but I do dream about him. If for example I had a relapse and I dreamt about him the very next night, meaning I had a problem where I could have been hospitalized but he came into my dream. Is he doing the same thing?

The spirits are always there for you. Remember it's easier for them to know what's going on with you than it is for you to know what's going on with them because they have a much broader view now. They will always be there to assist and guide you in any circumstance in your life where you need their help.

I'm so happy that you're taking all these calls, but... Okay, so I am black and my husband is white, but his mom and my mom got along really well and I dreamt that they had met in the spirit world. Is that...?

Everyone that is physical starts in the spirit world and you make these agreements especially when it involves close family ties. You may be experiencing the physicalness of soul families. All of this happens by agreement in the spirit before it ever happens in physical reality. So anytime you experience a close relationship of any kind in physical reality, it is representative of a relationship that exists in spirit.

Thank you so much. I have one more. It's an off question. I wouldn't have asked it, but I was asked to ask it. So here it is. Is there a Jersey Devil?

There are many different kinds of beings that are inter-dimensional. Yes, it does exist, but it is something that can pass sometimes into your reality and out of your reality. There are many forms of elemental beings and dimensional portals through which different kinds of beings can temporarily pass into your reality, but more often than not, they will pass back into their own reality from time to time as well and only pay a temporary visit into your reality. So yes, the being does exist, but it comes from a different reality altogether.

Okay. I heard you say something to somebody else about using your passion and following your passion.

Yes. Is that because that's what I try to do.

It's important because your higher mind, your non-physical higher mind is attempting to guide you in your physical life. The idea is that it sends you messages and energy in the form that your body translates as the sensation of passion. So you know that it's telling you this is your next step. This is the next thing to do. This is who you really are. This is what you agreed to experience. So when you act on your passion, you're responding to the higher mind's message and saying, "Yes, I heard you and I'm willing to take the actions necessary in physical reality to prove that I heard you and to be my true self." And then the higher mind can send you more opportunities to act on your passion. But you have to follow the whole formula because it is acting on your passion to the best you can with no insistence or assumption as to what the outcome ought to be, staying in a positive state no matter what happens so you can get a benefit from it, and examining your belief systems and letting go of the negative and fear-based ones. Those five steps are the entire formula that will allow you to align with your higher mind in the best possible way and allow you to be most representative of your true self and your true vibration while you're experiencing a physical life on Earth.

Thank you. Because I do want to write a book. I'm in the midst of doing it and there are a couple of other things that I want to achieve before I go and I'm hoping to do that. So you have encouraged me.

All right. We always give you unconditional love and unconditional encouragement to follow your passion. Act it out because the actions you take are the language of physical reality. Because you are physical experiencing a physical reality. Action is the language of physical reality. So doing the things that are representative of your passion is what makes the difference in your world and allows others to receive the benefit of those actions, of those gifts that you have to give.

Yes. I have seven grandchildren that I hope will benefit from whatever I do and whatever I've left behind. So thank you so much for sharing.

You can stop hoping and just do it. Someone will benefit.

Okay. Thank you so much. I can't tell you how lovely this is.

We are very grateful and appreciative of your interaction with us. Good day.

Hello. I have a question for Bashar. This is a little odd, but I'd like to know if I actually did contact Bashar through dowsing. I do dowsing with a pendulum and I wanted to see if I could actually contact Bashar and just a few days ago, Bashar did come through and I asked a few questions. So my question to Bashar is did I contact Bashar? And were my questions answered truthfully or were the answers that I received from Bashar correct? I guess I'm not quite sure how to say that. But anyway, thank you very much and I do appreciate this one-on-one request.

You did not receive them from me personally. You may have tapped into our collective energy, the energy of the Essassani people. Unless you provide us with the answers you got, we cannot comment on the accuracy of them.

Hello Bashar, this is Mira. I have been having some fun dreams lately about magical animals. And in one of those dreams, a person that I know was having... he was able to communicate with a dog and the dog was telling him about a peridot stone. So when I woke up, I was all excited about a peridot stone and I ordered three of them online and they just arrived, which is really nice. So I guess when something like that happens, I dream about something and I feel like I want to on the one hand honor it by giving it like a place in my physical reality as well, but I guess I'm also trying to find how to connect my dream world and my physical reality more. And I was wondering what you can tell us about that, like how do we get those two to start coming together? Thank you Bashar.

Well, first by understanding that your physical reality is a dream. In fact, it's actually more of a dream than your dream reality, which is more real than physical reality. You have to reverse the understanding in your consciousness that you are in fact right now still in spirit and you never leave it. You have to understand that you're dreaming that you've left. You're having a dream in spirit that you are not in spirit and that is what physical reality is. So you have to understand and experience physical reality in the same way that you experience the idea of a dream. And when you start to become more lucid and aware that you're creating this dream that you call physical reality, then it can begin to appear more dreamlike. Not that it gets out of control, but it is more malleable, more flexible. Space and time will become more bendable, so to speak, more flexible, more collapsible. You will start to see physical reality as being less real. Again, you can continue to experience it, but you will realize that you have more control over exactly what happens. And therefore, it becomes more dreamlike. So allowing yourself to start seeing physical reality in a more dream-like way will help you realize that one is simply an extension of the other. Physical reality is simply an extension of the spirit world. It's just a different context. It's just a different perspective of it.

Hi Bashar. The number 333 has been stalking me for many, many years. I believe my hybrid children are among the first 333. Can you confirm this for me? Thank you so much. Love you so much.

The number 333 is a representation of 333,000 cycles per second, which is the borderline between physical and non-physical reality. So you are giving yourself a perception of where you are heading as a species and how it is important to raise your frequency in order to be more vibrationally compatible with the hybrid children who have the ability to blend both spirit and physical realities into one being.

Hello TA. We have lots of great questions from our viewers.

All right. The first question again relates to the monologue. How can we navigate reflections in the world that appear misaligned with our true selves without automatically internalizing everything? The idea of handling it alone and feeling responsible for the entire world seems like excessive pressure.

You are not responsible for anyone, let alone the entire world. You are only responsible to them to be yourself. Reflections that come to you that show up in your life that may be vibrationally incompatible with what you prefer is not always a one-to-one reflection indicating that you are dealing with the same issues. The idea may be that someone is coming to you in your life because the reflection is that you're willing to be of assistance to them to help them, to give them more options to choose different things that may work better for them. So this is one of the great misunderstandings that people on your planet have about this concept is they think that just because someone shows up in your life that may be reflecting certain kinds of vibrationally incompatible or negative or fear-based issues means that you are harboring the same things. This is not the case. You have to discern whether or not whatever they bring to you, whatever shows up in your life could be information that would be applicable in your life, that would better you. But you get to decide with honest self-investigation whether or not that is the case. And if you find out that it isn't the case, then the reflection is simply that you have been willing to allow someone vibrationally incompatible into your life to be of assistance to them, to give them the option to change their frequency, to be more of who they are, to be of help to them by offering them more opportunities, more pathways than they may have considered. So that's what is meant by reflections. It isn't again just a one-to-one idea.

Okay, that's very helpful. Can you speak about discernment in a world of reflections? If everything and everyone is love reflecting back at us, can we just trust and believe everything that's reflected to us by the world and others? Or do we still need to pay attention to what resonates and feels right and true for us? How would you say we can tell the difference?

Again, when you have honest self-investigation and hone your skills at being able to tell the difference between what is vibrationally compatible with your core essential frequency and what is not, then it will be easy for you to discern what is true for you and what is not. Again, you may attract things into your life to test yourself to see whether or not you are willing to stand up for what you know is true for you. But again, you have to have honest self-reflection and self-investigation to know the difference between resistance to what is true for you or acceptance of what is not true for you, to find out why you would accept something that is not true for you or why you would resist something that is. Once that is clear, then you will have keener discernment about what is vibrationally compatible with your truth and what is not. It'll be easy to tell the difference between what is registering as your excitement and what is registering as your anxiety, which is the sign that something is out of alignment with who you really are, even if it occurs within yourself. The ability to tell the difference between excitement and the vibration of anxiety is the key. And again, honest self-investigation will improve your skills at telling the difference.

And can you talk about how and why we get different kinds of reflections of the people in our lives? How we can turn towards allowing more clear and positive reflections and responding more clearly to it all ourselves as well.

Again, it's not about insisting on more positive reflections because again, it shouldn't matter what happens because you will always get a benefit out of it if you stay in a positive state. This is the fourth principle of the formula. So it's not just about getting positive reflections because this is the time of choosing. This is the time of allowing yourself to see all different forms of choice, all different consequences of choice, so that you can determine for yourself what you are vibrationally compatible with and what you're not vibrationally compatible with. So it's not just about only seeing positive reflections. It's about using the reflections in a positive way.

That's very helpful. All right. Can you talk about how we can best forgive ourselves and others for the reflections that have seemed painful, overwhelming or confusing to us and allow things to be clearer?

Well, again, the idea of holding on to a grudge, not forgiving, is the perpetuation of the energy that you say you don't prefer. The original context of forgiveness is to stop seeking revenge or retribution against a situation or a person. So as long as you seek the idea of revenge, of retribution, of making people pay for what happened, then you are connecting yourself and anchoring yourself to the negative energy, the fear-based energy that you say you would like to let go of. So forgiveness is the act of truly letting go and disconnecting from things that allow you to continue to create negative energy within your own energy field. Forgiveness is freedom. It is freeing yourself from anything in the past that you feel affected you. Because you have to recognize that since you are your own reality, really what's happening is you're only feeling your own energy. You're only affecting yourself by agreeing with someone who was offering you a negative scenario, a negative vibration. So forgiveness is letting go of holding on to that negative vibration. It is the cessation of punishing yourself and punishing them for having created the experience. If you truly wish to be free, then forgive and let go and learn the lesson therein that will allow you to move forward.

Okay. And I've heard you speak about how physical reality is a mirror and how we sometimes hold on to beliefs that are not ours. Can you go into more detail about this? If physical reality is a mirror, how do beliefs not reflective of my core frequency come from others in my society? I'm trying to reconcile "you get what you give" or "what you put out is what you get back."

We have just explained this. The idea is that reflections, even though you're using that word, are not one-to-one reflections as in a literal mirror. The idea is to understand that you can attract someone into your life who may be completely vibrationally incompatible with what you prefer because you are willing to assist them. The reflection is they're giving you an opportunity to reflect your willingness to be of assistance in providing them other options other than the paths and the choices that they may be taking or making. So don't confuse the idea of the word reflection for the concept that someone coming into your life who doesn't operate or make choices the same way you do is actually representative of what you're doing. That's not often the case. They may simply be representative of your willingness to be of assistance to them to help them take another path. So reflection doesn't mean absolute one-to-one reflection.

So in a sense would you say that when anything comes into our life or a person comes into our life and we get a certain reflection, the important thing is first to check in with your own belief systems about whether or not, if you're getting a negative reflection, whether the information being shared with you about you is really true.

Yes.

Or if it's a projection of the other person's consciousness.

Yes. And by doing this, it strengthens your understanding of who you are. And without those kinds of other reflections that I'm describing, you would not be as clear or pushed as far to express your truth.

Yes. The willingness to at first number one see if what is being offered to you is something that can aid you, assist you, be applied to you to improve you, to better you. And number two, if not, then the realization that it might be the other person's issue and they have come to you because they sense that you could possibly reflect to them what they need to change themselves. Even though they may or may not choose that, it is what gives you better discernment about what is yours and what is not yours. So the willingness to at first think about whether what they're offering you is yours or not helps you with the discernment to be able in the future to tell the difference between what is truly yours and what is an issue being projected by another person that has really nothing to do with you other than perhaps their ability to sense that you could be of assistance by listening to them and helping them make other choices other than the ones that they are choosing.

And in addition to that idea of when someone is offered something that is diminishing of their value or their worth and then they are challenged at that moment whether to accept the idea that they're not worthy or to reject it because they know it just can't be true. The inherent value of a person is there regardless of how they behave.

Yes. And then once you have that level of clarity, it becomes easier to discern whether you're being gaslighted or something like that by another person.

Yes, this is why it is so important to understand the fundamentals, the very idea that you are worthy on the fact of your existence, deserving on the fact of your existence because creation doesn't make mistakes. Therefore, if you exist, you are a valued part of existence. You are a worthy part of existence. Otherwise, you wouldn't exist if you weren't needed by existence to exist in order for existence to be all that it is. So when you have a clear understanding of the fundamentals of the basics of your worth just by the fact that you exist, then everything else can be easier to discern because you start from a basis of indestructibility, of certainty, of confidence, of knowingness and then all the rest is secondary.

And when individuals receive negative reflections from their immediate family or the people that are close to them, it seems to them that it carries more power in some way because apparently that person's opinion of your value is more important. Is there something you could say about that idea of just making a difference between the people who are close to you, if they say things to you that upset you, or if it's a total stranger, how we react to that in a balanced way?

Yes. But first and foremost, let us provide another level of clarity to the language that you're using because we understand that the word reflection can be confusing. And this is why we're attempting to clarify the idea. Perhaps it would be better for people to understand again, if they're willing to really look at themselves first to understand that there is a difference between reflection and projection. So the idea is to learn the difference, to discern the difference between what is being reflected to you that you need to know about yourself and what is being projected to you from another that is more reflective of their issue rather than yours. So let's add the idea of projection to the concept of reflection. And that usage of those two words may make it easier to discern which is which.

But the idea in family lines is because you have an innate feeling or an innate connection to them out of love. Because family represents the idea of connections of love and support, you add that connection, you add that idea of love and support and it makes you take what they're saying more differently than you would with a stranger where you assume no love is coming from them. So it is the actual connection of love that you have that makes you more susceptible to the idea of receiving whatever projections they may be projecting onto you that represent their issues because you're willing to look at yourself more readily and assume more readily that they may be right about you even if they're not because of the connection you feel of love to them because of the family connection.

And when it comes from a family member, then it gives you an opportunity for different levels of processing. One is, are you having an emotionally reactive response to any diminishment that you've received from a family member? Yes. And on another level, maintaining that state of neutrality, which is a higher vibrational state, in order to ensure that the way that you respond to the person that is projecting in that way is a way that will be helpful to them or give them the opportunity to change without having it activated by strong emotions or revenge or getting back at them because they've hurt you. But the idea is that to put it euphemistically, a pause is your friend. Silence is your friend as a response because it gives you the time to consider why they may be saying what they're saying instead of simply having an automatic reaction that has tapped into your sense of self-worth or lack thereof. So if you find that you're reacting, it would always be wise to pause and say nothing and give yourself an opportunity to mull over why they have said what they have said. And in the silence, you may find it easier to discern whether or not what they have said is something you do need to take to heart to improve yourself, or at least a part of it is, or whether it is purely their issue. So the idea is to learn to pause when you feel yourself reacting to something. Don't immediately respond. Take a moment of silence and ask yourself, why is this person saying this to me? Why am I reacting the way I am reacting? Is there something I need to look at within myself because I'm reacting negatively to this? Because I'm reacting out of fear or worry or self-doubt? And then give yourself the opportunity to really learn to hone your discernment in the silence that you give yourself to afford yourself the time to determine exactly what is going on instead of immediately reacting. What you humans call a knee-jerk reaction.

And in terms of the balanced response to it, when you finally do respond, can you clarify a little bit more about the kinds of attitudes you would have towards the individual when you finally do re-engage in some way?

Well, again, it would be one of more compassion and curiosity for why they said what they said and asking them, why are you feeling what you're feeling? What has brought this up in you? Can you give me an understanding more clearly of why you are saying what you are saying and where that's coming from? Because I want to be of assistance here. I want to learn who it is you are and why you're feeling what you're feeling, why you're saying what you're saying, because I love you and I wish to be of assistance in clarifying the communication between us. Now whether or not you actually say all of that, that's the attitude. That's the energy. That's the state of being of compassion and curiosity that expresses itself as a desire to assist, to get to the bottom of why something has been said and what the real issue is. Because very often when people say things, it is a surface reaction and there is a deeper issue that really needs to be clarified and revealed and unveiled.

And if you discern that the energy that's being projected towards you is negative, how do we respond to understanding that while incorporating what you just said?

I just told you how.

So you recognize that it's negative of course because you have the reaction to it, or if you are neutral you simply recognize it is vibrationally not compatible with the truth that you understand yourself to be. So you either have the negative reaction, the negative response, or you have the neutral recognition. And in that you still maintain the silence for a moment, maybe even for a few heartbeats. Have the curiosity and compassion to say, "All right, I hear what you're saying. I recognize that you have this feeling but if you can please explain to me where this feeling comes from. What you think is happening here? What it is you believe that has happened that is allowing you to react this way to tell me what you have told me." So it is again whether it is actually said that way or not, the state of being that you need to come from in order to respond in a more positive way and a more constructive way and to get at the bottom of the root of why someone may have said what they have said, why they have felt the way they have felt, why they have reacted the way they have reacted because it's usually representative of a much deeper issue than the one that they're calling out.

Well that's very helpful. I think that's a nice in-depth exploration of reflections for sure. So thank you for that.

Because there's always some need within them that is not being met and it may have nothing to do with what they're saying. You have to find out what is the basic need that is not being met in this individual that they would lash out or project in that way. It is usually again about issues of not being or feeling loved or not feeling worthy or deserving or something along that line. Fundamentally that would cause an individual to project onto another what it is that they feel they are incapable of giving themselves and resenting what another individual may remind them of in terms of their inability to not give that to themselves.

I'm sure if we all apply this, the people on Earth would get along a lot better.

Yes, they would.

So you've talked about the value as individuals of remaining in the neutral point between the positive and the negative as it allows all viewpoints to be valid. Can this be applied by the collective itself? If so, can you describe some aspects of what that would look like on Earth?

Well, it would be what I have described as the civilization on my world that is operating on pure synchronism, is telepathically bonded in unconditional love and experiences the idea of clarity every single moment while we are walking through a multi-dimensional dream. That is how you would experience it on Earth were you to evolve to that point.

And how does the idea of the collective consciousness work with the idea that we are constantly navigating to different vibrational versions of Earth? How is it possible for us to continually shift into different realities while simultaneously being part of a collective?

Because consciousness is everywhere. Remember that when you shift, you are dealing not only with your own individual consciousness but with the collective consciousness of your world and with the collective consciousness of all that is on different levels of expression. So the idea is that consciousness is everywhere. There is no place that consciousness is not. So you simply adapt a different form, a different expression of consciousness and utilize connections to all levels of consciousness while you experience the shifting.

Okay. And can you expand on the idea of raising our frequency in relation to our sun? I understand that different versions of Earth have the same sun. And although Willa lives on a different version of Earth, that version still circles around the same sun as our version of Earth.

No, it does not. When you shift, you shift completely into a completely different universe. Completely different. It may look the same, but it's not the same. So no, when you shift, you are not orbiting the same star. Just as you are on a different version of Earth, you are in a different version of the universe with different stars that again may look similar, but those are the stars of that universe.

Okay. This person is asking about the Anuette. She says once I had a clairvoyant interaction with a feminine entity which I think is an Anuette woman. I think she is that because of the way she was way ahead of Willa in terms of frequency and non-physicality but still as human as one can get. It was the experience that made me understand that there is much more to reality. Is that entity in that role my most probable future life experience? And in what way were you and Willa connected to her on her paths?

It is a probable future life experience as you term these things linearly because you are focusing on it and experiencing a connection to it. So it can be possibly a future self. Our connection with Willa is representative of your Earth when the sixth hybrid race is fully forming. My connection as the third hybrid race is part of the union of all the hybrid races so that when Earth becomes the sixth hybrid race, we all blend together to become the seventh.

Okay. And recently you shared a meditation technique for ringing the bell at Bell Rock and I've meditated there in the past. Since I live at a distance, I'm curious if replicating the experience in my mind while meditating at home produces the same effect or is it less effective than when it's done remotely?

It depends upon your understanding of time and space and your belief system. Since distance is an illusion, if you truly understand that, then your meditation at home can be just as effective as actually being in present with Bell Rock because you would understand that at home and in present is no different if you understand that distance is an illusion. So it's all dependent on your belief system and your understanding of space and time.

Okay. And this person's asking about the Mitchell-Hedges skull. They were in a private session with the Mitchell-Hedges skull and they brought their clear crystal skull to absorb the energy of the Mitchell-Hedges skull. How much information does one crystal skull absorb from another? And what kind of information can a crystal skull reflect back to you?

All the information that is absorbed and all the information that is reflected to any particular individual is all the information that is relevant for that individual's life path. It doesn't necessarily absorb all of the information in a master skull like the Mitchell-Hedges skull, but it will absorb everything that is relevant for the individual connected to the skull that is doing the absorbing.

Okay. And can you give us a little guidance on making sense of our dreams? How can we make more sense of them even when they seem completely random and easy to discount?

Well, again, remember there are different kinds of dreams. Sometimes if you're having an experience out of body, your physical mind will use whatever symbols make sense to it to represent or symbolize the experience you had. But there may not necessarily always be enough symbols or enough representative symbols to make complete sense out of what was going on on a different level of reality. So sometimes the dream can be highly symbolic. And if you have an understanding of the symbols and how you relate to those symbols, sometimes even understanding that you are everything in the dream and what those symbols mean to you as different aspects of yourself being reflected back to you and what they symbolize to you about different components of your consciousness, then you will have a clearer understanding of what the dream quote unquote means to you.

So I guess that can help when people do dream journals and they start keeping track of the different symbols that repeatedly show up in their dreams.

Yes. Even if they don't repeatedly show up, you can still have a relationship to a symbol by meditating on what the symbol represents to you.

And that can be especially true when you wake up in the morning before you fully come out of the dream state.

Yes, it is easy to remember the dream if you stay with it and not just jump out of bed. Another way to look at it is if you have any proficiency with any other divination system like tarot cards or such, you can start treating the dream symbols in the same way that you would treat the symbols on a tarot card or any other divination system.

That sounds interesting. This question is: can you define observations, perspectives, opinions and judgments?

Observations are neutral. Perspectives are your particular point of view that can still be neutral. Judgments, in the way that typically humans mean, usually goes into some sort of adding your opinion, your belief, a perspective that may or may not be positive or negative into the mix of your observation. In other words, judgments and opinions represent the filtering of observations through your particular belief system, whether it's positive or negative as to what it is you are observing, what your perspective of it is. Perspective can sometimes already be representative of a filtering through your belief system which is why you have that perspective, although there are neutral perspectives as well. So basically observations can be neutral. Perspectives can be neutral but can be representative of filtering through a belief. Judgments and opinions are usually representative of filtering an observation through a belief system, whether positive, neutral, or negative.

And when we're following our highest excitement, can you help us understand where rest, entertainment, diversions are necessary and how to know where to place them in our reality so that we don't get out of balance with it?

Well, again, if you actually are living in the vibration of your passion, the things that you need, including things like rest and entertainment, relaxation, would synchronistically be obvious to you as part of your passion, part of your excitement when they are necessary for bodily replenishment and so on and so forth. In much the same way that you know when it's time to eat when you are hungry. So when you are truly living in your passion, there will be other kinds of senses that you will develop that will tell you now it's time to rest. In the same way that you have a signal that now it's time to eat because you feel hungry. So the idea is to include all of those things in the vibration of your passion and let synchronicity organize them all in a way that allows you to hone your senses to be able to tell when certain things are necessary within your passion, within your excitement.

So also what you're saying I guess is that the more precise you are in following the formula, the more accurate your interpretations of the signals you receive will be. For example, if a person is having issues with their weight, they might get constant signals that it's time to eat, but that's more of a reflection of being out of balance.

Yes. But if you're following the formula more precisely and you are experiencing the higher vibrational state that comes with your passion where everything falls into place, where everything is synchronistically aligned, then you will receive those messages in a balanced way. Because if you pay attention to people who are following their passion, just to use the example we have already suggested, you will recognize that sometimes people will hardly ever feel hungry. They will feel hungry when they need to. They will not feel excessively hungry because they are so focused on their passion that they're getting energy and getting support in another way. And then when they truly need sustenance to support their body, then and only then will they start to feel hungry. They will feel hungry no other time.

So if you look at the human beings you've been interacting with for a long time and you see their progress in terms of utilizing the formula and becoming more and more precise at it, are there sort of like stages that people go through with it? So that at some point you cross a line and you're actually so much more accurate than you might have been in the beginning when you were misinterpreting anxiety for passion etc.

Yes, of course there are stages. Stages of understanding, stages of as you say wrapping your mind around something, really making it real for you, really having a knowing of how it works. Again, it goes through stages in much the same way that you learn how to walk as a child. There are the stages where you're simply lying flat. There are the stages when you begin to move around and crawl. There are the stages when you finally balance yourself enough to walk. There's the stage when you finally learn to balance yourself enough to run. And then there are the stages when you finally achieve things that you consider to be certain forms of athletics where you can leap and bound and do other things, somersault and so on and so forth. So yes, there are energetic stages like that in our observations of people and their understanding levels of the formula. We can tell when you're crawling, we can tell when you're walking, we can tell when you're running, we can tell when you're leaping.

How can you help us know where we are in terms of our progress on that? Like what stage we're at?

We can only assist you by helping you to understand how to clarify your own self-investigations about why you believe what you believe and what's holding you back in your belief system. What it is that prevents you from having a clear understanding of the principles of the formula. So that's how we help you, by clearing out your attic of any beliefs that are holding you back from your pure understanding of the formula.

So basically, since we're manifesting all the time, it's all based on when you manifest something, how you react to it, how you respond to it, where you get confused, where you get clarity, and that's what really shows you what stage you're at in terms of working with these concepts.

Yes.

Great. This person is asking about the formula. If someone hasn't been following their excitement for a while and then they start to follow it again in any given moment, what happens? And you said that the only way to miss an appointment that's meant for you is to worry about missing it. Yes. Can you expand on what happens if someone misses an appointment? Does it queue back up again and come back around for another opportunity?

Yes, it always does. If you're paying attention, if you're willing to understand that that is happening, you will always be given another opportunity. Now, that doesn't mean it's not possible to simply miss it for the entire lifetime. Because if you keep refusing the opportunities, if you go into a negative vibration that makes it almost impossible for you to see the opportunities because you're not on a vibratory level to perceive them, then yes, that can happen for an entire lifetime. And then when you are non-physical, when you go into spirit and look at your life review, you might go, "Oh, look at all the missed opportunities. Look at all the times I could have been willing to pay attention to the opportunities but I just didn't." But you will still learn a lesson from that. So there is always another opportunity to learn the lesson. Always another opportunity to choose something where you can apply the information and the knowledge of that lesson. Whether you are still physical or not is not the key. It's whether or not you simply arrive at a point ultimately where you're finally recognizing that there is an opportunity to learn the lesson and do something with it.

So when you reach the stage of the formula where you're expressing a higher level of precision, what are some of the kinds of things that can happen in that circumstance? And does that then indicate that when you're looking at scenarios outside of yourself or apparently outside of yourself that are negative, that once you're in that higher vibrational state, does it mean that you are actually looking through the glass wall at these activities and that you need to know that when you're in that higher vibrational state?

When you are in that vibrational state, you are operating on synchronism in the same way that we do. You see reality for what it is: a projection of consciousness. You explore everything with curiosity. Nothing makes you react in a negative way. You remain neutral and positive in your approach to everything. You act immediately and fully on every opportunity that represents your excitement and your passion. You are your true self and you feel transparent to yourself and are willing to look at everything within yourself and accept everything that manifests in your life as an opportunity to experience more and more expansion and more and more knowledge. You start really becoming lucid in the physical reality dream.

Sounds wonderful.

It is.

This person is telling a personal story. She says that she was a prostitute 10 years ago and she got caught by a lot of people but she healed herself and she's a different person now and she's trying to let go of her past but people still remember who she was. So everyone who knows me has heard about it, she says, and meeting new people even abroad, they seem to become discovering of her past. So she wants to understand how can she be present and forgive herself because it's now causing her to be afraid to start something new because she feels like it'll just keep coming back and haunting her.

All right. Well, there's two ways to approach this. First of all, she herself may not be really letting go of that persona if she really truly wishes to. So she may be walking into new relationships in fear that she is going to bring that persona forward or that someone is going to know about that persona. So she's holding on to the persona for some reason. She has to look at her belief systems about what she's getting out of doing that and really truly let it go if it really doesn't belong to her anymore. She has a different past if she's truly a different person. The idea that someone might point it out to her, might quote unquote remember who she was, is simply an opportunity for her to see if she's still reacting to it in the same old way or saying, "But that's not who I am."

The second approach to this can be to remind people that everyone was a different person in the past. No matter what it is they expressed, no matter who it is they were being. So just as someone might point out to her that she was different in the past, then she can point out to them but so were you. Who did you used to be in the past that you no longer are? Can we relate to each other as people in the present and let go of the past? Can we simply be here now? So that's the two approaches. She has to find out if she's holding on to that past persona for some reason that she believes serves her or if she's just testing herself to see if she can let it go, and at the same time can remind others who point it out to her that they themselves also have past selves that they may not be letting go of or that they have let go of, and to simply exist in the present because what purpose does it serve to relate to someone who is no longer in the present?

This is kind of a reiteration of another question but still probably useful. This person is saying that they find themselves judging themselves whenever they're angry, judgmental, or get annoyed at someone. And they want to know how they can have an opinion of their self-expression without feeling bad. What is it saying about me when I am angry and annoyed at somebody?

It means you're angry and annoyed at yourself because again you're projecting onto them what you feel to be true about yourself. So we would simply suggest more honest deep self-investigation about what it is that you feel uncomfortable with within yourself. What are you out of alignment with within yourself? What are you angry with yourself about? And investigate that more deeply, more fully and let it go.

So also from your standpoint, a lot of times people will think that you're going to lose patience with them or something. And as you've explained to us, you don't experience that because you're just in that vibrational state where that's not part of how you express yourself.

Yes. We not only don't have the idea of losing patience, we don't have patience. We don't need patience. You only need patience if you're waiting for something better to happen. Everything that's happening is the best thing that can probably be happening at that moment. It's the most important thing. So we're fully engaged in the present and therefore are not waiting for something else to happen. Therefore, we don't need patience. And if we don't need patience, then we never lose our patience because we never had it. So you see when you're reactive to something, it's probably for a human being it's probably means that their issues of self-worth are coming up. Yes. And they don't know who they are anymore. They're confused by what has manifested. Yes. And the idea is to recognize that once you know what the higher vibrational state feels like where you don't need patience in a sense, it can show you the direction to go in to regain that state. But part of that direction is understanding why you were out of alignment to begin with. What belief you're holding on to. Why you reacted the way you did. So that's part of the idea of the realignment is understanding why you were misaligned.

This person is saying that they've mostly used pain as a teacher to drive them towards growth. And how can they change that motivator into one that involves joy and positive states instead of fear and negativity?

Well, their ability to ask the question itself can propel them in that direction. Because if they really only understood how to motivate themselves through pain and that was it, they would never even wonder if it was possible to motivate themselves through joy. But this is what following your passion is all about: motivating yourself through joy. So the idea is what are you getting out of motivating yourself from pain? Do you not truly believe and understand that by following your passion you are motivating yourself through joy? Again, it comes down to following the formula and truly understanding it, understanding how it works. But if you really believe that you're not going to move forward unless you goad yourself with pain because you believe that that's necessary to get yourself to act, to get yourself to move, to get yourself to grow, then you'll keep using that because you want to keep motivating yourself. But you don't have to do it through pain. If you understand how the formula works, you will understand that when we say to act on your passion, that is synonymous with motivating yourself through joy.

And this question is: are there laws governing the spiritual world just like there are laws governing the material world, or is there only one set of laws and that applies to both spiritual and material world?

The five laws apply everywhere, every when, to everyone in every state.

Do you want to repeat the five laws?

Number one, you exist. Number two, the one is the all. The all is the one. Number three, what you put out is what you get back. Is that the third? I'm not sure. But leave it at that and let the ones that know find out and remember what they are.

But again, it's not about memory. It's about knowing what you need to know when you need to know it and understanding how things work and how things exist, what the structure of existence actually is. Now, yes, there is a person who had a question about the idea that when they hear about the five laws, for them it is actually only three laws and the rest are simply corollaries to that. And that is true. And that's why we originally talked about four laws and then turned it into five laws because we realize that many humans on your planet need things broken down a little bit farther to understand the principles in more detail in order for them to have a clearer understanding of those things. But there really is only one law and in a sense it is that you exist. And if you understand all the corollaries of your existence, then the other so-called laws are natural extensions of that. So there really is only the idea that you exist. That is the law. The corollaries that extend from that can be experienced in different ways on the level you're in, but they still do apply to all different levels. But you exist. Existence itself applies to every level. You exist. You cannot cease to exist. There is no such thing as non-existence by definition. And everything that extends from that is an extrapolation of the fact that you exist. That everything is one thing. But it changes. It experiences itself in all the ways that it can. And that's why the fifth law is that everything changes. That's the only constant. Everything is always fluctuating, always changing, always reflecting different versions of itself to itself, always knowing itself in all the ways that it can. So what you put out is what you get back is simply a way of saying there's no difference in a sense on a fundamental level between you and anything else. There's nowhere for anything else to go. It can only go within you. You can only experience it within you. And that's why what you put out is what you get back is the linear expression of the fact that everything is happening within you and there's nowhere else for anything to go. There is no outside. The one is all. The all is one again is another recognition that everything is the same thing experiencing itself in all the possible ways that it can.

This question is: can you explain the difference between the dream state, template level reality, and physical reality?

The dream state is a broad expression that can include the concepts of experiencing out of body experiences, astral travel. The template level reality is a specific vibrational state that represents "as above, so below." In other words, what you have deemed as a theme you will experience in your physical reality dream is in a sense sketched out on the template level reality first. It is a specific vibration within the astral realm just above physical reality that then crystallizes down into the experience that you call physical reality. So you could say physical reality is a crystallized form of the template level energy in non-physical reality that represents the blueprint or the themes that you have chosen to explore from the astral level, from the spirit level, which encompasses the astral realm and the dream level, the spirit level all in one thing.

Okay, great. Thank you. And this person's question is about Christ consciousness. How would you define Christ consciousness? What does Christ consciousness reflect to us?

Christ consciousness is typically a reflection of the entire collective consciousness of your world. In other words, you have your own individual consciousness. You have group consciousnesses. You have archetypal consciousnesses. Christ consciousness is the archetype of the collective of the entire population of the Earth and the Earth itself.

What frequency would Christ consciousness represent?

Well, this is something that brackets both the physical and non-physical realities. So it is something that contains frequencies that in a sense are a spectrum just below 333,000 cycles per second and above 333,000 cycles per second, which is the barrier between physical and non-physical reality. So it actually straddles both.

Okay, that's nice. I think this will probably be the last question. Recently you described how embracing being spirit beings is an important part of preparation for the idea of open contact with high vibrational quasi-physical ETs. Can you give some examples of the aspects of and abilities associated with being a spirit which are important to learn and integrate as we raise our vibration?

The most important thing is to completely let go of the fear of death. To understand it, truly understand it as nothing more than a continuation of life, a transition into a different state. In many ways, just a continuation of your experience of physical reality because physical reality is simply another aspect of the spirit realm in which you exist and never leave. So when you really start to experience the idea of non-physical reality as a continuum and a continuation of physical reality and start to experience physical reality as a projection of non-physical reality that you never leave non-physical reality in order to have a physical experience, when you dissolve the idea of the difference and the borderline to a great degree between physical and non-physical reality and lose your fear of death, then you will experience yourself more as the higher mind, experience more abilities of spirit in physical terms. You will be a more balanced and blended being and experience more of what we talked about earlier in terms of the way we experience our reality.

Meditation: Breathe deeply. Breathe easily. If you are going to bring up any kind of imagery or music, you can do so to accompany what we are about to say. Allow yourselves to imagine while breathing easily in a relaxed way that you are at the center of a hall of mirrors like in one of your amusement parks. And you allow yourself to see all the reflections in the mirrors around you. Seeing yourself from all sorts of different angles, different perspectives, the front of yourself, the sides of yourself, the backs of yourself, even the top and the bottom of yourself. Seeing yourself from every angle possible. There are mirrors all around, above you, below you, all around you.

In this case, however, you recognize that all of the reflections are actually conscious, self-aware, different versions of you within you that express the idea of different perspectives, different themes, different explorations of your being, different aspects of your creativity, of your manifestations. But that from time to time different people will come in and take their place so that they will look different than you look. But still reflect to you what you need to know to be more of yourself as you then reflect to them what they need to know to be more of themselves.

But it comes with the understanding that it isn't always a one-to-one reflection. That what those other beings and other people bring when they take the place of your reflections and look different than your reflections and carry with them their own issues are not necessarily reflecting to you the issues you have within yourself.

As you continue to breathe deeply, you're willing to absorb whatever information and advice this reflection may have for you that would be beneficial for you to apply to yourself, to change yourself, to uplift yourself, to raise your vibration with, to incorporate within your being that would aid and assist you in being more of who you truly are. Your willingness to do that is front and center. At the same time, you do not have the assumption necessarily after exploring yourself with honesty that that is necessarily a reflection that you need to understand. And it may be that these beings taking the place of your reflections in the hall of mirrors are bringing to you a reflection of your willingness to reflect to them what they need to know, what they need to understand that will help them in choosing different paths, different ways of understanding themselves so that in their reflections they can learn to be more of who and what they are.

A reflection isn't the same as the idea of a glass mirror in this context. It is a reflection of your willingness to be of service, to be of help, to be of benefit to others by reflecting to them what they need to know to make themselves whole, to understand themselves from a different perspective, to give them the gift of a different path, a different idea, a different choice, an alternative that they may not have considered that allows them to function more holistically, even as they may allow you to function more holistically by giving you the opportunity to be of service, to give them gifts that they may require.

So never assume that just because you attract someone that seems vibrationally incompatible with you that it is a direct reflection of any kind of lack of integrity or out of alignment in you. At first, be humble enough to assume that it may have a message for you. But if you have, with your honest self-investigation, determined that that is not the case, then be willing to receive the reflection as your willingness to be of service to them, to reflect to them what they need to know so they can be more whole in the same way that you are willing to be more whole, more truly yourself in this life, to raise your vibration and be the being that you were created to be at your core, in your essence, in your heart of hearts, in your knowingness.

Take a deep breath in and allow all these reflections all around you, above and below you, to give you what you need so that you may reflect back to the reflections what they need to be more holistic aspects of creation. More holistic reflections of all that is so that you can all be the puzzle pieces you were made to be in the shape you were made. So that you will all fit together to create the whole picture that can support all the pieces. So that all the reflections harmonize with the validation of the individuality in each that is the true essential self at your core. Breathe it in and crystallize it and make it your own.

Continue to breathe. Relax into this. Accept it with willingness, with excitement, with creativity and imagination and inspiration. And be the gift that you were made to be. And receive the gifts that you are willing to receive. That will help you become more of who you are. So you can become a living example to others that they can be more of who they are as well. Be of service in this way. Give the gifts you have to give for there is someone waiting to receive them.

