---
heading: Part 1 
title: "Parallel realities and you"
description: ""
c: "purple"
author: Bashar
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
date: 2024-03-09
weight: 628
---



Parallel realities are what your scientists have called a unified theory for quite some time. The basic idea being to reduce everything down so that you understand how every phenomenon is the product and extension of a single fundamental principle, uniting everything, connecting everything, explaining everything. This would have to be true not only for what they consider to be the forces of the universe but for space-time itself, that which is the fundamental underpinning of the idea of reality as you understand it.

So not only must the idea of gravity and the atomic forces and electromagnetism all be reduced to an understanding of extensions of a fundamental principle, but space itself and time itself must also be reduced.

The idea of the ultimate reduction of space would be as a single dimensionless point. We can call that single dimensionless point "here." The idea of the reduction of time would be a single timeless moment. We can call that single timeless moment "now."

So we have the idea of a here and a now, and everything being here and now. Everything being an expression, every single experience of a different place, a different location, the idea of volumetric space, the very idea of different moments in time—past, present, future—all being extensions and products of the idea of that dimensionless point and that timeless moment.

### Space-Time as Proof of Parallel Realities

If there is truly only a dimensionless point and a single timeless moment—the here, the now of everything—and yet you are capable of experiencing what appears to be, what feels like, different places at different times, movement, change, change over time, moving around to different locations within the idea of space, you can experience that. But they must all be the product of the same dimensionless point and timeless moment, experienced in different ways, from different angles, different points of view so to speak, different perspectives. It's the same dimensionless point, it's the same timeless moment, looked at in different ways, experienced in different ways.

And thus the very notion of space-time, the very fact that you are experiencing what appear to be multiple places and multiple times, is in itself actually proof of parallel realities. Because if everything is really one, everything is really here, and everything is really now, then the experience of multiple places and times are all happening at once. And thus every single moment—what you call seconds, minutes, nanoseconds, what have you—different locations A, B, C, D, E, F, G, these all have to be happening at the same time in the same place basically, fundamentally. And therefore, every single tick of the clock is actually an experience of a different parallel reality. Every single movement, no matter how small, is actually the experience of a different parallel reality, all existing simultaneously with every other moment, every other place.

So parallel realities really are the fundamental underlying reality that you do experience. You may think of your life as happening in a single timeline, but that single timeline is actually thus composed of many different perspectives, many different movements and experiences of time changing, movement through space, and therefore your entire timeline is actually constructed of an infinite number of parallel realities. Finite within what you might call one lifetime, as you experience time to exist, but infinite in the varieties that exist to create all the different parallel timelines, all the different choices one may make, all the different choices one may experience in creating themes to explore as a physical being.

### Cross-Connecting to Parallel Versions of Yourself

Now, of course, all those other versions are not you as a person; they are their own people. But you cross-connect to them, as we have explained, through energy downloading information and experience from all these different parallel versions of your greater being, experiencing all these multiple incarnations simultaneously in parallel timelines.

But again, remember each parallel timeline, each timeline that seems like a single timeline, is still going to be composed of different frames, you could say, that are grabbed from a variety of parallel realities in order to create the single timeline that you believe your life represents. So you're really cross-connecting in a constantly changing, dynamic pattern of downloading information and experience from any number of parallel versions of yourselves where and when it is relevant for you to do so, in order to enhance and inform the timeline that you are constructing constantly, moment by moment by moment, into what appears to be a single timeline that is actually the product of a multitude of timelines and a multitude of parallel reality experiences being had by all the different simultaneous incarnations that your oversoul is experiencing all at once.

### The Hallway Analogy & Free Will

This is why you have such a wide variety of choices available to you, even though some of them may seem limited to the themes and the relevance of those themes that you are exploring. Nevertheless, this is why you can experience the destiny you have created for yourself in so many different ways. Why you can, as I say, go down that hallway—because that hallway is you. You cannot do anything other than the way you, this person, would do it, but you can do it in any number of ways that this person would choose to do it. You can walk, you can run, you can be happy, you can be sad, you can be contemplative, you can be angry, you can do it by going slowly, you can do it by jumping up and down, you can be excited, you can be calm, you can look in every doorway down the hall, you can ignore them all, you can go backwards, forwards. It's up to you how to utilize the dynamic connections that you are calling upon and connecting to from a myriad of parallel reality frames that are all existing at the same time.

### Mandalas as Permission Slips to Multi-Dimensional Awareness

If you have from time to time seen things like moiré patterns or mandalas, this is really the meaning of a mandala. The mandala is an expression of the kinds of energy patterns your consciousness is using to tap into different parallel realities, which is why mandalas as a permission slip sometimes can connect you to the multi-dimensional awareness that they do. Because the mandalas and patterns similar to mandalas, different kinds of geometric forms of that nature, especially multi-dimensional ones like merkabas and so on and so forth, are actually representative of the kind of energy patterns your consciousness is forming to tap into these different parallel realities and link to them and draw information down those lines, those mandala lines crisscrossing here and there.

This is why many of these ideas of focusing on mandalas can help expand your awareness of the multi-dimensional existence that you have—what you're tapping into on physical, non-physical, multi-dimensional levels through time and space. It's beyond time and space. So using mandalas that way to tap into different parallel realities as a permission slip can be very powerful in your meditations to allow you to start cross-connecting and be a little bit more aware and realize a little bit more of what realities you are tapping into, what versions of yourselves, what counterparts of yourselves, what other incarnations perhaps even not only on Earth but in other civilizations you are drawing from in parallel lifetimes in order to inform this lifetime.

### The Dynamic Pattern of Consciousness

It's quite a dynamically complex pattern of energy, of consciousness expressing itself in these geometric patterns of vibrational awareness that create the unique you that you are. No mandala is the same as any other mandala; even if it's off by a fraction of an inch, it's still very different. It's creating a new pattern to draw down new information.

And I remind you that you're constantly dynamically plugging and unplugging from these things. The idea of connecting to what you read as past life memories, future life memories, and so on and so forth, is constantly shifting and changing to service whatever it is you have determined are the themes you're exploring as this particular personality. But you are constantly drawing upon a multitude of interdimensional experiences in parallel reality timelines to inform who you are here and now, which is why you have such a great degree of flexibility of changing who you are, because every moment is new. You can unplug from everything and replug into many different things and define who you are in this moment, who it is you prefer to be, who is the idealized expression of yourself in this particular personality construct as this version of the greater being that you are.

### Approaching the Oversoul & Source

Thus approaching more understanding and awareness of this greater being that you are—the oversoul of oversouls—and connecting to Source in a way that allows you to know that while you are yes an individualized reflection of all that is, you are also simultaneously all that is experiencing itself as a reflection, as an aspect, as a piece of itself. So it's both: you are the one and you are the all simultaneously.

### The Benefits of Expanding Awareness

This understanding of the mandala connection and the vibrational patterns that you use in your consciousness to connect and draw down information and experience from the multitude of parallel realities from which you construct each of your timelines can help you feel more expanded, can allow you to begin to experience more synchronicity in a multi-dimensional way in your lifetimes, can give you more of an expanded feeling of operating from the higher mind level of non-physical reality and the oversoul level beyond that, can expand your vision, your awareness, your sensitivity to seeing things that were heretofore invisible to you, because you're now going to include more ideas from different parallel reality dimensions into your awareness.

Now, going through this shift into the awakening where you can proceed to raise your vibration to the point where more things from the spirit world and more things from multi-dimensional realities can be perceived by you, so that you can expand and enrich your experience of reality, knowing that your experience of reality is actually the result of many different choices from many different realities that are all going to be relevant for your expansion into more self-awareness of what you are and who you are as an aspect of all that is.

### Q&A: How to Begin Channeling

**Questioner:** ...I am very sure that I came here to channel beings from another dimension like you do, and I'm kind of waiting for this to happen. I'm following my highest excitement, but sometimes I think I just made it up. I would love some hint from you to see how I can make this happen.

**Bashar:** It's all right to feel it first like you're making it up. Again, as we have said, if you're bringing things through, it's always best to have other people asking questions to pull the information through you so that you're not sitting there wondering what's going on. You're just letting it happen. You have to let go of all the ideas of needing to be at first precise and accurate and right and all this. Whatever comes through is what needs to come through, and you can always tell people: "Look, I'm practicing. Whatever's coming through is what I'm getting, and that's what I'm getting. Take it or leave it. It doesn't matter to me." You don't have to worry about its accuracy or anything like that, or feeling silly, or looking silly, or doing something wrong. Just do it and see what happens. You'll get better at it, like anything. It's like practicing an instrument. So you have to let go of all the self-judgment and just tell people: "Look, this is what I'm getting. Take it or leave it. I don't care. It's your business to take or not take what I'm sharing with you, but this is the way it's happening for me. All I'm doing is giving me a chance to practice and get better at it." Let's just have fun with it. So you need to take the pressure off yourself and just let it flow.

### Q&A: Distinguishing Anxiety from Excitement & Synchronicity Types

**Questioner:** Is my higher mind attempting to tell me that I am confusing my anxiety with my excitement? Because I would act on my excitement but receive synchronicities telling me to go the other way, but then when I go the other way, I receive synchronicities telling me that I'm trying too hard and I should just be myself. So why is my higher mind sending me in a loop?

**Bashar:** It's not sending you in a loop. Your belief systems are sending you in a loop. The higher mind guides unerringly, but you have to remember, as we have explained, there are different types of synchronicity. There's the green light synchronicity which says: "Here's an opportunity that you are capable of acting on." And there is the red light synchronicity which is saying that something may be representative of your excitement, but that doesn't mean that you are given an opportunity to act on it because the timing may not be correct right now. So it stops you from moving forward and directs you to look for what kinds of excitement you are capable of acting on, because those are the ones that will allow you to move forward. You may be able to go back to the other form later when you have collected enough information and experience in order to do so.

So the idea of moving forward and not moving forward on your excitement are the two guide rails that synchronicity provides to keep you in line with the idea of what it is you actually need to act on now and what it is you don't need to act on right away, even though it might be representative overall of your passion.

**Questioner:** So basically just go with the flow and not judge?

**Bashar:** Go with the flow. Now again, you always have to be honest with yourself as to whether you're the one dampening the excitement, whether you're the one disguising the excitement as anxiety or anxiety as excitement. You have to have honest self-investigation within yourself to understand the reason why you may choose to move forward or a reason why you may not choose to move forward, to make sure you're not the one halting yourself as opposed to it actually being synchronicity saying "no, not yet." So it just takes honest self-examination to make sure what your reasons are for moving forward on something or not moving forward on something.

**Questioner:** Could you give me a simple technique by which I could question myself to investigate between my anxiety and excitement?

**Bashar:** Well, again, it's always: "Why do I believe what I believe to be true? If I do this, what am I afraid might happen? Am I afraid something will happen if I do move forward in this direction? And if so, why am I afraid? Why do I believe that that will happen?" So it's a matter of asking yourself why you believe what you believe. When you discover what it is you do believe about whether or not you have a fear of moving forward in a certain direction that might represent your excitement. It's always in the "why." Why do I believe what I believe? Or why should I do this? Or why do I feel excited about doing it? It's not about "why should I do this?" It's not about "why am I excited?" It's "why do I believe what I believe will happen if I do this? If this is my excitement, am I afraid to move forward on it? What am I afraid will happen if I do move forward on it?"

You can also ask: "Am I fooling myself? Is this not my excitement? Am I disguising this? Am I avoiding my excitement by saying this is my excitement when it's not?" Again, you have to really have honest self-investigation and find out the "why" you believe what you believe.

**Questioner:** So if I believe something because of fear, then I know it's a negative belief, so to speak.

**Bashar:** Yes. And then you can talk yourself out of it by understanding that it doesn't have to be true. It's just something that the belief system is telling you as a story to help you avoid going forward because you believe something worse will happen than where you are right now. Because remember the motivational mechanism: you will always choose what you believe serves you, and you will always avoid what you believe does not. But the key word is *believe*, because you could be choosing something that doesn't serve you, but if you believe that the alternative is worse, then you'll stay with what you're doing even if it's not pleasant, because you think the alternative would be worse. So you have to understand why do you believe the alternative would be worse. It doesn't necessarily make sense. So if it doesn't make sense, then I can let it go. When it doesn't make sense, it is gone, because you will not hold on to something that doesn't make sense. But you have to get to the point where it actually doesn't make sense.

### Q&A: Changing Beliefs & The Danger of Avoidance

**Questioner:** ...In order to change your beliefs, you should do it one at a time because if you try to do it all at once it would be disastrous. Is this disastrous state irreversible, or does it wear off after a while?

**Bashar:** All right, now you're sort of exaggerating a little bit what we said. Because the idea is that it's simply that most people cannot do it all at once, because most people trying to do it all at once are usually avoiding the process. They're afraid to go through that gives them the information they need to actually change those beliefs more quickly. It's like they want to skip over them: "Can I just believe that I'm letting go of all of my negative beliefs?" Well yes you can, but if you're not actually truly doing that, then they will come back multiplied. And that's what you're referring to as disastrous: now you have more to deal with because you've been avoiding and avoiding and avoiding going through the process bit by bit of really learning why you have those beliefs, really educating yourself as to why you might have held on to them, so that you can let go of them with education and consciousness, as opposed to just trying to skip over them.

You can try that, but for most people it won't work, because it's through avoidance that you're doing that instead of through understanding and mastering the idea of why you believe them to begin with, so that you can know yourself and be fluent within yourself about why you choose to believe what you believe. That's the mastery.

So yes, it's not impossible that you could quickly let go of something, but the paradox is the more you understand why you're holding on to it, the quicker you can let it go, rather than just simply skipping over it which might turn out to be disastrous because now you'll have to go back and figure out all over again what it is you're trying to avoid.

I would always suggest just go with the process. You can eliminate some of the process by examining your beliefs and letting go of the things that are truly unnecessary. You can shorten the process to a certain point, but whatever process is left is the process that's necessary for you to understand and know yourself clearly, and that's what allows for the acceleration of letting these things go—not just avoiding them, not just skipping over them, because then you're avoiding the whole reason why you came to Earth: to experience these ideas and transform them so that you gain mastery and understanding and experience yourself from a new point of view. Otherwise, what's the point of being here at all if you're going to just skip over it? Go through the process. That's the point. You learn about who you are and you enrich yourself and expand yourself in ways that are extremely important for your growth as a being, as a spirit.

### Q&A: Breakthrough Experiences & Elemental Life Forms

**Questioner:** While doing the cryptic, I saw a strange prism of rainbow light that dematerialized. The next day, I saw a seagull, but then a seventh wasn't a seagull; it was an orb of light with a comet-like tail that dissipated. What were these two experiences?

**Bashar:** The first is the beginning of breaking through the barriers of one reality to another, beginning to encroach from the idea of the cryptic level to the nocturnal level. So the idea is as you begin to establish connections to the physical plane in a certain way, the multi-dimensional nature of the physical plane shifting from the cryptic to the nocturnal level can allow you to begin to tap into more parallel realities and break through the barrier or the veil from the idea of physical to multi-dimensional realities, representing the idea of the crystalline form of breaking through into the next plane—the dimensional plane that will allow you to expand your consciousness into a multitude. In a sense, you're starting to see the shards. The whole idea of the different shards, each shard reflecting a different parallel reality. So it's the first breakthrough into the idea of the nocturnal level.

The idea of what you were seeing up above is more of some of the things that exist there. There are multi-dimensional life forms that pass in and out of your reality now and then, that animals can perceive, that humans are beginning to perceive. The idea is that there are many different kinds of life forms multi-dimensionally passing into and out of your reality, and you are beginning to perceive one of those life forms that comes and goes, that flies along with the birds many times, but is another life form that is connected to the Earth but lives on a more rarified sort of lower astral realm. So you're expanding your awareness of the idea of elementals, which is the first cryptic idea. The first cryptic level is to begin to experience elementals and those that can come in from other dimensional planes dipping into your reality temporarily, extending your senses so that you can begin to see them in that way as well.

**Questioner:** Regarding the second experience, was that interdimensional and elemental, or something else?

**Bashar:** As I said, it is a life form that exists in the lower astral that can take on energies of the elemental in your reality to be able to be perceivable by you. So it dips in and out, taking on a form entering your reality, taking on a form that is representative of your reality, but then going back out into its own form in the lower astral which is a little bit different looking. Yet it takes on that form when it enters your reality so that you can perceive it.

**Questioner:** The hesitation you had while answering...?

**Bashar:** The hesitation was simply the idea of looking for the appropriate way to explain the information to you that you were experiencing, in a way that was more beneficial for you specifically and your personality to utilize.

### Q&A: Tic Tac Ships & The Yel

**Questioner:** I saw two Tic Tac ships. Who were in those ships? I'm assuming some hybrid children or those I have a connection with.

**Bashar:** The Tic Tac ships, as you call them, are mostly the product of the Yel. So it would have been Yel beings as well.

**Questioner:** Was it a spike of vibrational energy from me doing the cryptic that they were trying to see, or was it people I have connections with coming to say hi?

**Bashar:** Well, it can be a multitude of things. We can't necessarily predict every single reason why someone might show up. They may be paying attention to shifts in energy that you're connected to, shifts in energy in general in the area. They might be on some other kind of exploratory mission at that particular point, just observing things in general, or they might have more specific connecting purposes to see how you're doing and take a reading. It could be a multitude of things.

### Q&A: Hybrid Children & Life Purpose

**Questioner:** Do I have any hybrid kids, and if so, how many? And what is the purpose for this lifetime?

**Bashar:** Your purpose is to be yourself as fully as you can. But you're also participating in the hybridization agenda for the benefit of the evolution of the human race. So the idea of the hybrid children that you have—yes. We can't tell you exactly how many because genetic material is spread among many thousands of them, but the idea is that you're helping with the evolution of the human race to move toward becoming the sixth hybrid race as part of the evolutionary path of humanity. But your own purpose is your own, in terms of following your passion and being who you are to benefit and be of service to humanity by expressing your gifts to them and sharing your gifts, whatever they may be, by acting on your passion. That's your purpose in life: be yourself as fully as you possibly can, enjoy your life, be the shining and living example of someone who is living their life to the fullest, so that others can see in you an example of something they may choose for themselves as well.

### Q&A: The She (Interdimensional Elementals)

**Questioner:** Could you tell me a little bit about the She, where they come from, and what their story is?

**Bashar:** Well, they're again part of the interdimensional elemental groups that exist in between, so to speak, in a slightly more refined version of physical reality that's connected to Earth, overlapping into the lower levels of the astral realm. So they can come and go and present themselves as they need to to humans when and where it seems appropriate to them to do so.

They are strongly connected to the idea of shape-shifting energy that is available to all beings on Earth, should you attempt to connect to that particular level to help you understand how you shift all the time from reality to reality. They're very representative of the idea of the realms of magic, so to speak, the idea of again attuning to different parallel realities and allowing yourself to sort of shape-shift into them to represent whatever degree of that reality you need to represent your path in life.

So the She are very good as representatives of the go-betweens, the interdimensional liaisons of your awareness to become more than you think yourselves to be, to become more magical in your experience of life, to experience more synchronicities, to be presented with the idea of curiosity and clues and puzzles that allow you to solve your own internal sort of questions and follow the paths that lead to your own discovery of internal treasures.

**Questioner:** Is there an extraterrestrial history to the She?

**Bashar:** Well, only in the sense that they can commune with those beings from other places. They themselves are not extraterrestrial; they're very anchored to the Earth, but again in a multi-dimensional way. But anything that allows itself to experience its own multi-dimensionality will by definition overlap into the ability to communicate with extradimensional and extraterrestrial and even spirit beings.

### Q&A: Crystal Skull in Ireland & Druidic Times

**Questioner:** The crystal skull that found itself in Ireland at the time it arrived—what was the society like, and how might they have interfaced with it?

**Bashar:** Well, it's mostly the idea of what you consider to be the Druidic times, the ancient Celts. But the idea is that a lot of the information that was derived from the crystal skulls is what allowed things like Stonehenge and other kinds of dolmens to be built at the time. So the understanding of those things had been locked into the crystal skulls and was extracted by Druidic priests from the crystal skulls, and ancient Atlanteans to help build those things that would help orient you in the future.

**Questioner:** Would a lot of people have known about this?

**Bashar:** Well, a lot of people may have known, but the practice was mostly kept in what would be considered to be the priesthoods.

**Questioner:** Would the She have interfaced with this crystal skull?

**Bashar:** Absolutely. Absolutely.

**Questioner:** Is it still buried somewhere, or is it under care at the moment?

**Bashar:** Both. Those that care for it know where it is buried. They can still care for it in their own way because it's all about energetics.

**Questioner:** Are those carers human?

**Bashar:** Well, yes, but they are exhibiting a high level of genetic diversity in terms of the idea that all humans are hybridized. Wow. Interesting.

### Q&A: The Process of Forgetting & Remembering

**Questioner:** I find myself remembering and forgetting, remembering and forgetting like a thousand times a day. I can get worried that I'm not on track at all.

**Bashar:** All right, that's all right. Don't worry about it. Remember the process is the point. Yeah, I sometimes get worried... just relax and make your choices according to what you feel is correct for you. You always have the opportunity to change your mind, but the idea is you're exploring, and that's all right. You can keep exploring. You don't have to worry about the idea. Just make your choices, see how they feel. If you don't feel right about them, make another choice. You always have the power to choose. Just stay in the moment with it. That's all.

**Questioner:** Don't look where you don't want to go... this idea of what you focus on will manifest.

**Bashar:** Don't worry about that either, because even if it does, you're aware enough to know that that is or isn't what you prefer and to make a different choice. That's the whole point. As long as you keep checking in with yourself, you're fine.

### Q&A: Expanded Awareness & Non-Preferred Choices

**Questioner:** Will the challenge of having negative options or manifestations go away the more I...?

**Bashar:** The options will never go away. You'll become more aware of them, but you'll be less likely to choose them because they don't feel right. It'll be like going shopping and picking a shirt that is too small and saying, "Well, you know this is an option, I could wear this, but if I put it on it's going to feel too tight and that's not comfortable for me, so I'll choose something else a little bit more roomy."

As we shift more and more into the Earth that we prefer as we make those kinds of choices, at first it will be that you are even more aware of the things that you don't prefer. But that's all right, to be aware of them, to know they're there, because again it gives you more opportunity to not choose them, to see how many ways you cannot choose what you don't prefer, as well as seeing more ways to choose what you do. You expand. That option exists on every single level. You become more aware of what you don't prefer as you expand, but you also become more aware that you don't have to choose them, that they're just not right for you. So it equals out. It balances out. It's more easy to recognize what is not you by seeing more of what is not you. Otherwise you can't expand.

### Q&A: The Window for Contact

**Questioner:** You said the window of contact will happen from 2025 till 2033, and open contact in 2037. Has this changed? You gave this message many years ago.

**Bashar:** Yes, we have already said that the window has broadened to this year, 2023. It still can extend to 2033, maybe 2040. But we have also said now more recently that there might be a contact event of some sort at the end of '26 and the beginning of '27. So yes, it's constantly dynamically fluctuating within that general window. This is a general window that can contain many different markers and many different experiences that may lead to changes in the timeline for contact, but generally taking place within that window still. It has broadened a little, yes.

### Q&A: Following the Formula & "Obligations" of Parenthood

**Questioner:** One of the questions is about the details of the formula. The rule is follow your excitement or your passion. But what else? It's not just act on your passion. It's act on your passion to the best you can, no insistence, no assumption as to the outcome, stay in a positive state, and constantly examine your beliefs to let go of the fear-based ones. That's the whole formula.

**Questioner:** Is it a false belief that there are some things that just contradict each other? I feel like I have obligations as a husband and a father.

**Bashar:** When you say the word "obligation," is that coming with a negative connotation in the definition or a positive one?

**Questioner:** I think it's mostly positive... but it would exclude other things. Two things can't be in the same place at the same time.

**Bashar:** But are the other things necessary and truly representative of your passion, or are you just assuming that these things cannot converge? Can you be more specific? You have children, one and a half and three. Following my excitement would tend to take me away from them often, because I'm excited about all sorts of things that are not exactly taking care of them.

**Bashar:** Are those things what allow you to take care of them? Do they give you the ability to take care of them?

**Questioner:** Maybe... I started getting interested in current events again. It feels like a distraction.

**Bashar:** Is it a distraction? Is that an honest answer? Are you distracting yourself, taking yourself away from a focus because of the negative connotations you have of what it means to be focused on them?

**Questioner:** That's exactly what I'm trying to figure out.

**Bashar:** Can you be a little bit more specific about the idea of any negative connotations you have about the idea of taking care of young children? Does it in your mind prevent you from doing other things that you think are necessary?

**Questioner:** I can take care of kids, but I can't do anything else at the same time.

**Bashar:** Can you give an example of one thing you can do while taking care of them that you enjoy?

**Questioner:** Reviewing videos on audio. I can have my earbud in, make food for them, and learn about something.

**Bashar:** All right. So taking care of them doesn't stop you from expressing that part of your excitement. Correct. All right. How far does that need to go in order for you to feel fulfilled? What do you think you're missing?

**Questioner:** The manifestation of stuff, turning things into actual experiences in physical reality.

**Bashar:** Why are you in such a hurry to do so? Are you running out of time in your mind?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Well, that's one of the primary things you need to relax about. You have all the time in the world. There's no hurry here.

**Questioner:** This life has a progression. My kids will only be three for a little bit.

**Bashar:** Why do you keep putting time limits on things instead of allowing the timing to synchronistically show you when it's appropriate for these kinds of things to happen in a natural order? Why aren't you letting the organizing principle of synchronicity serve you instead of insisting on how you think things should be arranged?

**Questioner:** I think intellectually I understand all of this, but emotionally I don't.

**Bashar:** You're worried that you're running out of time. You're worried that things won't happen in their proper timing. You think you have to arrange all these things. You don't have to arrange any of it. It's all pre-arranged. You have to relax into it to allow the timing to unfold and show you when the best possible timing is for these kinds of exciting things to happen, so that you're experiencing them together as a family. You're not trying to coordinate like some sort of director your family's timing in these things. You have to allow the timing you've all already agreed to manifest itself synchronistically, so that you know everyone will be enriched in their own good timing and that it'll all fall into place.

**Questioner:** Why don't I believe it?

**Bashar:** You're planning your future based on the self-judgments of the past. Not a good idea, because all you're doing is putting more self-judgment into the future. Let go of the past. Learn what you learn, but relax into what you learn and allow yourself to start really trusting the timing as it unfolds.

### Q&A: Living in the Moment & Creative Expression

**Bashar:** Are you taking any kind of breathing exercises or relaxation exercises or yogic practices?

**Questioner:** I've tried them off and on. I haven't stuck with anything.

**Bashar:** That's because you've been too impatient. You need to really start living in the moment and trusting that whatever is happening in the moment is exactly what needs to be happening in the moment, and work with what's happening in the moment instead of being in such a hurry to move on. You're not living your life in the moment. You're not appreciating your life in the moment. You think you have to be somewhere other than where you are. There's nothing more important than where you are. You need to learn to extract from every single present moment the richness that is there for you to appreciate.

But you're caught up in the idea of regrets. You're caught up in the idea that you're doing something wrong, and it's squeezing the life out of you literally. You have to unclench, open up, and appreciate every single thing that's happening in the moment, because whatever is happening in the moment will never happen again, and then you'll have more regrets because you'll think you missed something. So stop missing things by not living in the moment. Stay where you are. Trust that everything that's happening is what needs to be happening for everyone involved. You will pace yourself better. You will enrich yourself by learning how to extract what's going on in the moment to your and everyone else's advantage. You'll start to see opportunities that come to you in those moments that you're not seeing now, because you're squeezing your eyes so shut from what's happening in the moment that you're not even seeing the opportunities that are there for you.

**Bashar:** Are you able to express yourself artistically? Drawing, painting, things like that?

**Questioner:** I can draw.

**Bashar:** Do you draw enough?

**Questioner:** I usually draw diagrams.

**Bashar:** You might want to draw something a little bit more expressive. Start exploring the idea of just drawing things around you. Not diagrams. Just look at things, really appreciate things, draw them. Draw fantasy ideas too, things that are not necessarily in your reality exactly but are exciting to you to draw. Get lost in your imagination for a moment. Go back to being a child a little bit more. Get caught up in the idea of creation on paper. It can eventually leak into your physical reality if you give yourself over to your imagination. Take some time to explore it and really let that creative part of you out rather than being quite so rigidized with only things like diagrams—a little bit too structured. Need a little bit less structure, a little bit more creativity, a little bit more spontaneity, a little bit more living in the moment, a little bit more appreciation of what there is right here right now. See past the immediate things to the deeper parts of them, the richness of the moment. Let your mind ponder things. And breathe. Just breathe through it.

### Q&A: Human Diet (Herbivore/Omnivore Clarification)

**Questioner:** Why did you say that humans are a herbivorous species when this contradicts everything we know from science and history? A healthy vegan population has never existed on Earth according to archaeological evidence... Why are you telling us we are herbivorous in nature?

**Bashar:** First of all, that's a misunderstanding. I have never said that humanity has to be exclusively herbivorous. Ever. You are omnivores. This is the natural cycle of Earth, and different people have different expressions. I've always said let your body consciousness tell you what it is you need, be it the idea of meat protein or plant protein, and to balance these things out as necessary for each of you.

It is a misunderstanding that you think we have ever said you should only eat plants. We have said that sometimes when you raise your frequency, you may lose the urge to eat the heavier substances, but you have to allow that to happen in a natural way for you. But there are those that have certain chemical constituencies in their bodies that require meat protein. Welcome to the cycles of Earth. Yes, the idea of death and destruction are part of the natural cycles of Earth at this time.

We have never encouraged you otherwise, other than to say balance yourselves according to what feels natural to you. So please understand us clearly. We are not saying that you are forced to go in one direction or the other; it should be a natural balance of all things according to what the body consciousness is telling you you naturally need to feel like you are going to maintain your health. That's all we have ever said. Don't misunderstand us. All we have said is make sure it's the most natural, organic, and appreciated and respected sources, so that you are not putting toxins into your body as best as you possibly can avoid them. That's all we have ever said.

### Q&A: Speaking in Tongues & Light Language

**Questioner:** I'm very curious about the process of channeling from your end. I walked in on my father speaking in tongues. Is there a connection between speaking in tongues and channeling?

**Bashar:** What many people on your planet call speaking in tongues, or have referred to as light language, is kind of an embryonic form of channeling without a translation into an understandable language. In other words, it's the raw, unfiltered energy vibrations that they're bringing through that need some sort of sonic accompaniment, but that doesn't mean that their brain is translating it into an understandable language. It means that it's necessary at that point that it just be left as the tonal vibrational qualities that can act energetically to help make changes for other people to match those frequencies and change themselves.

So it's kind of like a level of channeling that is left just above the idea of actually translating it into understandable language for the physical mind. It lets the physical mind get out of the way and just allows the tonal vibrations to do their work.

**Questioner:** Is there a reason it comes in differently for specific people?

**Bashar:** Yes, of course. Again, it depends upon what agreements that person has made in terms of how they wish to bring energy through that might work for them better than any other way. It has to do a lot with belief systems that people have picked up on in being a physical being on Earth, in terms of what they believe is possible for them or what they believe is necessary. It's what's relevant for them to do perhaps at that moment. It could change over time as well, but right now it might be about what it is that just works for them in terms of bringing things through that can be of assistance for other people.

### Q&A: Destiny, Free Will, and Personality

**Questioner:** I've seen your content about life being meaningless in a positive sense, but also you talk about agreements made before this life. I'm curious about purpose. Do some people agree to go through certain lessons to bring them to a specific version of themselves, and is that supposed to manifest no matter what decision they make?

**Bashar:** Well, let's put it on the most basic level. You will always be you in this life. You may do many things, but you will always do them as you. You can't help that. You have constructed the idea of your basic personality, and that is your destiny. That is your hallway. You can't get out of that until you die. But you can do it in any number of ways that are still relevant for you doing them as you. And you will do them uniquely like no one else because you are you and you are unique.

So that's a fundamental agreement: you will experience everything and many things, no matter how many times you change, you will only experience them as you changing into what versions of you are relevant for this particular experience that you chose to have.

### Q&A: Relocation, Fear of Being Perceived, & Giving Your Gift

**Questioner:** I'm curious about relocating. I've been obsessed with Upstate New York, but what prevents me from being there is financial.

**Bashar:** Is there any way that you could be there without necessarily considering it from a financial perspective? Or is there something you could do in that location that would provide what you need to stay there?

**Questioner:** That's something I'm working on.

**Bashar:** What kind of service do you provide in life to people? What can you do for them that they would want?

**Questioner:** I guess it's a hard question for me to answer.

**Bashar:** Why? Is there nothing you can do that people would enjoy? What would you like to be doing if you could do anything?

**Questioner:** I want to learn more about metaphysics and astrology. I've been thinking about making videos on TikTok.

**Bashar:** You've been thinking about it, but why not do it?

**Questioner:** I'm horrified. I have a fear of being perceived.

**Bashar:** So you are being selfish. Do you understand why I'm saying it that way? If you have a gift to give and you are not giving it, you're depriving someone of getting it who's waiting to receive it because you're horrified. Do you understand that if you have a gift to give, there is someone waiting to receive it? Otherwise you wouldn't be excited about having it and giving it. That's how it works. As we say, there's no such thing as a one-sided coin. If you have the head, the tail has to be there, or there isn't a coin. So if you're excited about doing something, that's your clue that there's someone waiting to receive it. And by not giving it, you're depriving them. You're making them wait. They're looking for something, and you're holding it back from them. It's not very nice.

So stop being so concerned about yourself and be of service to others, to give them what you have to share for those who are waiting. There will be those who aren't waiting for it, but that's not your audience anyway, so who cares? There are those that are waiting to receive, those that are waiting to connect with you. Make the connection the best you can. You'll change, you'll improve, you'll get better, but you won't get better if you don't start because you're not going to practice. You have to start somewhere.

And if you do that, then you are giving the best you can. You are being of service the best you can. And when you are being of service the best you can, you will be served in turn. You will be supported. But if you're not willing to support others by giving them your gift, how is the universe going to reflect that support back to you by supporting you in the ability to support others? You're not starting the ball rolling. You're not starting the reflection. So nothing comes back. And you're afraid you won't be supported because you're not the one that's doing the supporting. So how can you get a reflection of support? You have to support to be supported. You have to serve to be served. Physical reality is a reflection. Unless you initiate, nothing comes back. If you don't have an image in the mirror, there's no reflection. If the lights are off, you don't see anything. Turn the lights on so you can see your reflection, so the reflection can come back to you and support you and guide you. You're sitting in the dark. Click. Turn the light on. Start serving in any way you can. Use your imagination. Put it out there. Be excited about it. You'll see it will support you.

And remember, there's more ways to be supported than just financially. Remember there are different forms of abundance. Let them all work for you. Don't get stuck on one, otherwise you close the doors through which all the other forms of abundance could also be reflected to you.

### Q&A: Sound Healing & Spiritual Resonance

**Questioner:** I'm fairly new to sound baths and really loving them. What happens on a spiritual or cosmic level when experiencing the sounds and vibrations?

**Bashar:** Everything is resonance. Everything is frequency in a sense. Everything is sound and light operating at certain vibrational frequencies. So when someone may present you with the opportunity to align with certain frequencies, no matter how they are created, it's an opportunity for you to align yourself with your higher spiritual dimensional self and the vibrational resonances that are represented there on those higher planes, to connect yourself more strongly, more aware, more consciously to the totality of your resonance, the totality of your being, which allows you to feel more aligned and more expanded.

So it's up to you to match those frequencies when and where they work for you, when and where you feel it's appropriate for you to do so. It's an opportunity to, in aligning with those frequencies, align with more of your own frequencies on higher levels and higher planes and be more of yourself and express more of yourself on this level as well, clearing your conduits, making it easier for energy to move through you in a more superconductive way without resistance, by aligning those frequencies, making yourself more coherent all the way up and down the vibrational frequencies of physical to non-physical reality, incorporating more of your ability to express more of who you truly are in this realm.

### Q&A: Choosing Between Equal Excitements & Synchronistic Guidance

**Questioner:** Sometimes it's not clear which choice is the most exciting. I define possible choices as parallel realities and ask myself which parallel reality I prefer. This seems to help me discern the choice. I'd love to hear anything you have to add.

**Bashar:** If that is the way that works for you, then that is your permission slip. That's the way that you believe you'll be able to have clearer discernment about which path to take. And as we said, if both really still continue to seem equal, you might as well flip a coin. That could reveal which path is more exciting, more relevant for you. But again, even if that doesn't work and both or more than two seem relevant, are they equally actable? That is the next question. If they are not only equally exciting but equally actable, then again remember that the tool of synchronicity will come into play so that whatever path you do choose to go down, it really won't matter because synchronicity will turn you around through situations and circumstances that will arise to turn you around to the path that is more relevant for you at that time. So it really doesn't matter which you choose to act on first. If all things seem to be equal, synchronicity will bring you to the path that is important for you at that moment.

### Q&A: Shifting to Parallel Universes & The Static Frame Model

**Questioner:** What do I have to do to move to a parallel universe?

**Bashar:** You move to parallel universes all the time. Again, billions of times per second. Again, it is important to understand how things actually work. You're constantly shifting into a new universe, a new parallel reality. And thus, again, by following the formula, you will navigate yourself through all of these shifts in the direction and constantly continue to experience different versions, different universes, different parallel reality versions of Earth that are constantly more and more in alignment with your core true vibration.

**Questioner:** What happens to the me in the previous parallel universe?

**Bashar:** It isn't you. The idea is that's another person experiencing whatever it is they're experiencing. But again, you're talking about a timeline. Remember, the idea of parallel realities really are like static frames, static photos. So the idea is there is no real experience in any of those things except by the idea of the greater being, the greater self, the more expanded non-physical version of the consciousness that you are, choosing to experience all of these things simultaneously. Therefore, it's only from your linear space-time perspective that you appear to be shifting. From the higher point of view of the higher being that you are, you're experiencing all these things at once. There is no shifting per se. All of these parallel realities are experienced by the greater you all at the same time.

So the question that you're asking is only from the linear space-time perspective that would seem to be leaving a version of yourself behind. But it doesn't really leave a version of yourself behind. That's another expression of the greater you being experienced simultaneously by the greater you. You're all going on at the same time. The shifting is only experienced from the linear space-time reality.

**Questioner:** Are parallel versions of Earth static moments of an infinitesimally small amount of time, like a billionth of a second, or are they different timelines based on differing probabilities? In other words, are they more like photos or videos?

**Bashar:** It seems like when you use the word "frames," they're more like photos which we string together in our mind to create experiences of moving images that we think of as timelines. Is that correct? Yes. You string the photos together to create the videos. You string the frames together to create the timeline. Yes, exactly.

**Questioner:** How can we become more aware of the consciousness jumps we're making and be more conscious about choosing where we land?

**Bashar:** I suppose the answer would be the same as before: follow the formula. The formula is the tool. The formula is the navigation. It is the rudder. Act on the formula. Understand it clearly and act on it precisely. The answer is not different.

### Q&A: Using Non-Preferred Experiences for Clarity

**Bashar:** The idea about having a positive state of being involves you exploring when negative feelings come up and transmuting that into something that's more positive for you, and investigating your belief systems. But it's not that you're actually calling negative things positive things; it's that you're staying in a positive state so you can get a benefit from whatever happens, even if it was generated negatively.

Part of that is saying you don't necessarily know why this particular thing manifested, but if you can find a positive way to relate to it, that's where you're the most powerful in transmuting it. If you find a positive way to relate to it, then you do know why it manifested: for that purpose, to give you that option, to give you that opportunity to do exactly that.

Even if you manifest something you objectively and neutrally don't prefer, that's vibrationally not compatible with who you prefer to be, you have to know it's still there for a reason. And the reason why it's there is to give you an opportunity to find out if you're going to react the same old negative way to it, or if you're going to take the different path of responding more positively, to know that it can serve you by defining why it's there and using why it's there in a positive way.

For example, if nothing else, manifesting something you don't prefer makes it clearer by contrast what you do prefer. Staying in the state of mind that allows you to use something you don't prefer as a comparison lens to what you do prefer, so that it makes what you do prefer clearer, is a positive way to use what you don't prefer. And once you've used it that way, it will go away because you've learned the lesson. You've used it in the way that serves you in a positive sense. And thus you do know exactly why it manifested that way: to give you the opportunity to do just that.

### Q&A: Free Will at Different Levels

**Questioner:** At what levels can free will be exercised?

**Bashar:** At every level except the original agreement you made. In other words, you have made an agreement to experience certain themes, certain challenges, certain transformative opportunities. You will experience them. But how you go through that, how you resolve that, how you deal with it, how you respond to it, how you figure it all out is up to your free will.

Again, the analogy of the hallway: you are a hallway. You will experience things only as the personality that you are, that you have chosen to be, and face the challenges you have chosen to face. But you can face them positively, negatively. You can face them happily or sad. You can walk, you can run, you can fly, you can crawl backwards or forwards, up or down, side to side. You can look in every doorway down the hallway, you can ignore them all. How you go down the hallway is to your free will as a physical being. But going down the hallway is what you will do as your destiny, chosen by the free will of the spirit that you are, the higher self that you are from the non-physical realm.

So you create your destiny by exercising your free will as a spirit. But once you have done so and determined the path you will walk—the hallway you will walk down—then that is your destiny. But you can use your free will as a living physical person to determine how you will experience that hallway, how you will be as the person that you have chosen to be.

### Q&A: Instantaneous Shifts & Multiple Personality Disorders

**Questioner:** When can we move to a parallel reality where our physical body has different characteristics than the reality we currently occupy, or is there a physical law that impedes that?

**Bashar:** No, you can do that. And there are many demonstrations of that. What you might call an instantaneous healing, a spontaneous healing, or a shift or spontaneous change that seems to involve no process at all is sometimes representative of the idea that you've shifted to a parallel reality where you are now truly a different person, and a different body, and a different past and a different future.

So every change is a total change, but they don't necessarily seem like it because there isn't necessarily what you would call a space-time gap. You don't see an abrupt change from one state to another, but sometimes you do. One of the clearest examples that exists in your reality about this are what you might refer to as multiple personality disorders, where one personality may have a tumor and when it shifts to a different personality, then the body exhibits no tumor at all. These things have been documented and recorded in your reality in many different cases. That's an indication of shifting to a parallel reality in such a manner that there is no continuity between one frame and the next.

So yes, it's possible. But is it relevant? That's always the question. Is it probable according to your belief systems that this will happen, and is it relevant for you for that to happen that way, or is the process necessary? Is the gradual process something you will learn something from? So yes, it's possible, but is it probable or relevant is really the question.

It's not about avoiding things. It's about allowing the process that is necessary. You can always reduce the amount of process by examining your belief systems about what you believe you need to really learn a lesson in any given process. You can always streamline the process down to its minimum, but you can't always eliminate the process because process is the entire point of experiencing physical reality: telling yourself a story, learning something from it, learning the moral of the story that you're telling yourself.

### Q&A: Perceiving Multiple Simultaneous Versions

**Questioner:** I witnessed someone speaking on stage and heard eight simultaneous versions speaking at the same time. Time was standing still so I could perceive several at once, then I chose the one that was my highest excitement. Are we all broadcasting like this all the time on multiple channels, and is that another way to talk about parallel realities?

**Bashar:** Absolutely. What you have simply done by expanding your consciousness is increased your sensitivity to pick up on more channels all at the same time. So the idea is that this is potentially a common symptom for those who are continuing to accelerate, continuing to upgrade their vibrational frequency and allow their senses to span multiple parallel realities simultaneously, to download information more simultaneously when your senses can handle it, when you can process it by expanding your consciousness. You might call it a mini-oversoul point of view. But this is going to become more and more common. This is how we experience reality in my civilization, which is why it is like walking through a dream of multiple dimensions simultaneously. We see many multiple probabilities all at once and can more easily recognize the path that is truly ours.

So we simply give you congratulations on expanding your consciousness to the point where you're experiencing the broadcast of multiple realities simultaneously that everyone is already doing, but most people are simply not aware that they're doing.

### Q&A: How Others Perceive Our Shift to a New Reality

**Questioner:** Once we decide to shift from our current reality to another more aligned with our desires, how will individuals from our previous reality perceive our change or absence? Will they notice a shift, or will their memories and perceptions adapt to a new narrative?

**Bashar:** They might, because remember they're your projections and reflections of the change you've made within yourself anyway. Some of them might entirely disappear from your life if they simply have no purpose in experiencing the change. Some of them might recognize the change within you and say, "Oh, you're different today. I'm not exactly sure why." And some of them will relate to you completely as new people, as a reflection of the new change you have made within yourself. It can be a range of things.

### Q&A: Tapping into Parallel Versions for Information

**Questioner:** Can you tell us how we can tap into another parallel version of ourselves to download information or knowledge about a subject?

**Bashar:** You can allow your imagination to be your guide in telling yourself a story of that particular persona that is engaged in the subject matter you find interesting. Allow yourself the free reign to see what the story of that individual would be like in all aspects of that individual's life, and mirror it as best as you possibly can, taking actions on the opportunity that synchronicity provides to match the idea of the behaviors and actions and feelings and thoughts of the individual you imagine in your story is living that kind of a life. Mirroring it as best as you possibly can. If it's not relevant for you, synchronicity will turn you around from it. If it is relevant, then you'll become in a sense more like that individual and experience the download of information that is relevant for the individual that you are mirroring.

### Q&A: Health Challenges & Shifting to an Optimum Reality

**Questioner:** For those of us who have faced prolonged health challenges, how can we consciously tap into and align with a parallel reality where our physical health is at its optimum?

**Bashar:** Yes. By asking yourself: what is the lesson you're learning, or what are you experiencing you otherwise would not have experienced by not having the health issue? By learning the lesson of why the health issue is there, you may be able to shift yourself to a parallel reality where it's no longer necessary, or perhaps more precisely never has been necessary for that version of yourself to experience that health issue, because it's not necessary for you to experience that lesson as the new individual in the new reality.

But the first thing to do is to let yourself learn the lesson of why you are experiencing what you're experiencing. Again, it's not about avoidance. It's not about running away from it. It's about accepting that that's what's happening in your reality and asking yourself to be clear about what you would not be learning that you are learning if you hadn't had the health issue. How is it serving you? What are you learning from it? Accepting that will allow you more opportunity to shift it. But you have to understand why it's there.

### Q&A: Telomeres, Aging, & Living in the Moment

**Questioner:** Telomeres are often viewed as indicators of the length of cellular health. How accurate is this within the context of parallel realities, and can we shift into a reality where our telomeres are longer?

**Bashar:** Yes. And in fact, many of your scientists are studying this very idea now by studying certain species of bats whose telomeres never change. In other words, they never appear to age. A one-year-old bat looks the same as a 15-year-old bat because their telomeres never change.

The telomeres will not change if you shift through a series of parallel realities where you are living more and more truly in the moment, because living in the moment creates the experience of less time and allows you to see yourself as ageless. So it's about living in the moment in a certain way, and it is about that idea as to why the bats' telomeres never change. They are experiencing time in a very different way than you are. So the idea is to live more in the moment and find out that the result of that will be that your telomeres will stay longer because you're not really aging, because you're not experiencing as much time, because you're living in the timeless now.

### Q&A: The Symbolism of Bats

**Questioner:** Can you give us a little information about bats as a spirit animal and why they are so prevalent in terms of some of our health issues at the present time?

**Bashar:** Again, they form a kind of dichotomy symbol. The idea of being the only mammal that can fly is an expression in a positive way of how you can uplift yourselves and evolve yourselves in a way that makes you able to accelerate your vibration and ascend to greater heights. At the same time, they form the polarity of the idea of being ill at ease with yourselves, ill at ease with your true beings, not willing to live in the moment but experiencing the concepts of anchoring into time and focusing on too many details that bring your vibration down. Things like lack of worthiness, regrets, self-judgments, which create the dark persona of the bat symbolizing the idea of what you call "evil," which is simply an anagram of "live."

So the idea is they perform the symbolic function of the polarity of your potential: to soar to great heights or to also be representative of deep deep darkness and the idea of attachment to negativity in life.

### Q&A: The Existence of Unwanted Parallel Realities

**Questioner:** Does an instance in a parallel reality of mine exist even if I or someone else doesn't ever think of it? For example, I can imagine many bad things that I would really dislike if they happened. Do they exist in a parallel reality because I thought of them?

**Bashar:** They exist in a parallel reality whether you think of them or not. Thinking of them may simply make you aware of the fact that those parallel realities do exist. But again, there are certain things in other parallel realities that are simply not relevant for you to experience in your timeline. So all of that's going on. All those things exist. All those are real experiences to some version of yourself, even though it's not really you; they're other people. But the idea is they may simply not be relevant for you, so you don't even have to be aware of them, even though they're going on. In the same way that watching one program on your television doesn't necessarily make you aware of the fact that there are other programs going on simultaneously, because that's simply not the program you need to be watching. Doesn't mean they're not happening, and it doesn't mean you have to worry about it.

### Q&A: How to React When Aware of Negative Realities

**Questioner:** If I suddenly become aware of a negative reality that creates a feeling of fear, how can I relate to it so that I understand I don't have to manifest it?

**Bashar:** Don't be afraid of it. Just because you open the book doesn't mean that it has to become your story. You can close the book and put it back on the shelf. The neutral response is what lets you know you don't necessarily have to experience it. A fear-based response is telling you that you're attracting it, but that you still have time to close the book. But again, you can't close it out of fear. It might be giving you an opportunity to neutralize it, to realize that just because you observe something momentarily doesn't mean it has to become part of your story. So it's the reaction that's important, and the reaction that tells you what your belief system is all about.

If you have a fear reaction, it could be telling you, "Hey, you have a belief system that says that this is more likely to happen than any other story. Why?" Then figure that out. Take that opportunity to find out why you would react that way, why you would believe that that's more likely to happen in your life than any other kind of experience. Give yourself the opportunity to change the story, to write a new story. Because if you have a fear reaction, there's a reason that you do. So find out what belief it's attached to, what belief the fear comes from, and write a new story. Work with it. You're a writer. You're a creator. Write the story. Find out why you react the way you do and change it by examining it and understanding why you're choosing to react as if that's more inevitable than any other choice. It's giving you the opportunity to write your story.

### Q&A: Fear of Physical Harm & Learning Lessons

**Questioner:** Since fear of physical harm is such an ingrained part of our biology, what is the way to relate to these kinds of powerful fears?

**Bashar:** As we said before, ask yourself: "Well, if that did happen, what would I think that was necessary to learn from? Can I learn it some other way? Is that the only way I can learn the lesson that that particular physically harmful experience would deliver to me? What would I learn from that if it happened that way? What beliefs is it telling me I have within myself that I don't necessarily prefer? Can I change those beliefs so that the physical harm becomes unnecessary?" Is the fear of the physical harm really all about to bring my attention to the fact that I think I need to be physically harmed in order to learn something, in order to grow, in order to change? Is that the only way I can learn that lesson? What's it attempting to tell me? Find out what the beliefs are. Again, it goes back to the same thing: why do you believe that that might be something that would be more inevitable in your life than any other choice?

### Q&A: Tragedies, Collective Lessons & Sacrifice

**Questioner:** Applying that idea to some of the tragic things that have happened on Earth recently, like fires and war, where many people are perishing... what are the lessons learned from all perspectives?

**Bashar:** More often than not, these things are the consequences of choices that people have made that may have been fear-based or negative choices. So what can you learn to do differently from the experience? Many people might actually on a different level be willing to take themselves out in that experience so that the ones that remain can learn a lesson and change. From a higher level, spirits know that lives in physical reality are temporary, are a projection of consciousness. And even though it may not seem so from the physical perspective, even groups of people may be willing to take themselves into spirit again, to pull back from the physical dream, to wake up in spirit, to teach the remainders a lesson, to allow them to examine their choices and change the way things are done so they can experience different consequences. That's usually the case.

So even when we see that some people have made choices that have led to their demise in one way or another, you can never really know if they're not in a sense sacrificing themselves for a higher purpose and affecting many people. So it's not something to judge as a poor choice so much as it is to recognize you have no idea why that person chose that. It could be a matter of a fear-based belief. It could be a matter of a higher spiritual calling that allows them to make the choice to let other people that are still physically alive learn to make different choices. It can be any of those things, and a range of those things, depending upon the person. And the agreement is still made from a higher level that they will do this together. No matter what the individual reason is, the timing has been chosen by all of them to do it, to take that as an advantage to base it on a consequence of either their individual belief systems or the collective belief system of what can serve the greater good.

### Q&A: Painful Death & The Transition Process

**Questioner:** Dying is like waking up from a dream and it's generally painless. However, many death processes involve physical pain. How can we ensure a pain-free experience during the dying process?

**Bashar:** It's not contradictory, because the transition itself is painless. But as you're saying, the process leading up to it may contain pain, again for a variety of different reasons based on the different people that experience it, and whether or not it's a consequence of their belief system, whether or not it's something that helps accelerate their soul's experience by experiencing everything all at once at the end rather than having experienced it through the entire span of their life. That can be a choice of the soul as well. It's like burning off the idea of experiencing negativity all at once instead of experiencing it spread out through the lifetime. A soul can choose that kind of an experience. It could also be an experience that gives someone left alive something to think about, something to learn from, something to change their reality by seeing what that person is going through. Again, it can be a variety of reasons based on the number of people experiencing the idea of pain. You have to take it on a case-by-case basis. You have to understand the reason why that's being experienced. And there are any number of reasons why.

### Q&A: Do Dogs Go to Heaven?

**Questioner:** Do dogs go to heaven and wait for us there?

**Bashar:** Yes. Everything goes home. Everything goes home. It's where you are. It's where you come from. Physical reality is just a projection. Your real home is in spirit. That goes for anything and everything. That's why people who have near-death experiences often get a glimpse that some experiences in non-physical reality appear to be very physical: there are trees and buildings and animals and people. Remember, it all starts there. It's not "as below, so above"; it's "as above, so below." All those things that you think of existing in physical material reality exist first and foremost in spirit.

So all of you are in spirit right now, and everything is in spirit right now. There is already a spirit version of everything that you experience in physical reality. It's experienced a little differently because the space-time factor is different there, but nevertheless it's all there first, then it crystallizes into physical materiality. So yes, of course. Everything exists in spirit because that's where everything actually resides right now. The idea of a physical dog is a projection of consciousness from the dog's consciousness in spirit. So yes, of course it goes back to spirit because it's never left spirit. That's where it exists primarily, first and foremost. Just like you, just like trees, just like rocks, just like anything.

### Q&A: Parallel Realities vs. Parallel Universes

**Questioner:** How are parallel realities and actual mirrors on Earth connected? How do parallel realities differ from parallel universes?

**Bashar:** A parallel universe is just in a sense a collection of frames of static parallel reality frames, so to speak. It's just a matter of degree. You're creating a video by experiencing the static frames in a certain order, a sequence of them. You can say the same thing about the idea of a parallel universe: every frame is its own universe, its own reality. The idea again is that it all goes hand in hand with the shifting that you do. You're creating a universe with every shift, experiencing a new universe with every shift. It's part of the static photo, the static frame. That's why we say every change is a total change. You're totally changing universes because everything that you understand goes with the change. A frame contains an entire universe, even if there's no motion in it. It's still a photo of everything, everywhere, everywhen.

Mirrors can be used as a symbol, a reflection, a permission slip to put you in touch with the idea that you could be looking at a parallel reality version of yourself. I'm not saying that's always the case. I'm simply saying it's a tool that can be used that way if your consciousness seems to bend in that direction, because it's all about light, it's all about energy, it's all about frequency. And therefore mirrors are symbolic of the idea of mirroring, and parallel realities are symbolic of mirroring. A mirror can be used as a window if your consciousness bends that way as a permission slip, if you're so inclined. That's all we're saying.





now please prepare yourself

3089
02:14:51,719 --> 02:14:54,319
for the idea of a parallel reality

3090
02:14:54,320 --> 02:14:56,718
meditation that you know is going on in

3091
02:14:56,719 --> 02:14:59,999
multiple parallel realities

3092
02:15:00,000 --> 02:15:02,238
simultaneously pick the one that works

3093
02:15:02,239 --> 02:15:07,359
for you relax breathe and

3094
02:15:07,360 --> 02:15:17,549
enjoy thank

3095
02:15:17,559 --> 02:15:20,238
you all right well now we encourage all

3096
02:15:20,239 --> 02:15:21,799
of you to become

3097
02:15:21,800 --> 02:15:25,598
relaxed and join us now in this brief

3098
02:15:27,040 --> 02:15:30,359
meditation exercise allow your breathing to be deep

3099
02:15:30,360 --> 02:15:31,238
exercise allow your breathing to be deep
and

3100
02:15:31,239 --> 02:15:34,558
even use whatever accompaniments of

3101
02:15:34,559 --> 02:15:37,839
sound imagery and lights you

3102
02:15:37,840 --> 02:15:41,959
wish and allow yourself to begin to

3103
02:15:41,960 --> 02:15:44,558
imagine a

3104
02:15:44,559 --> 02:15:47,359
mandala the idea of geometric

3105
02:15:47,360 --> 02:15:49,638
patterns in any way shape or form that

3106
02:15:49,639 --> 02:15:52,399
they may come to you in whatever colors

3107
02:15:52,400 --> 02:15:56,198
whatever lines shapes may appear

3108
02:15:56,199 --> 02:16:00,430
dimensional or flat doesn't

3109
02:16:00,440 --> 02:16:02,678
matter you can allow yourself to use

3110
02:16:02,679 --> 02:16:04,598
imagery that has been used

3111
02:16:04,599 --> 02:16:06,678
before that you may or may not be

3112
02:16:06,679 --> 02:16:09,519
familiar with you can look up mandalas

3113
02:16:09,520 --> 02:16:11,799
in your own free time to find one that

3114
02:16:11,800 --> 02:16:14,558
you may be attracted to or more than one

3115
02:16:14,559 --> 02:16:15,799
you can allow it to shift

3116
02:16:15,800 --> 02:16:17,678
kaleidoscopically in your mind and your

3117
02:16:17,679 --> 02:16:20,439
neur imagination as you imagine the

3118
02:16:22,280 --> 02:16:24,078
mandala in fact it might even be more beneficial

3119
02:16:24,079 --> 02:16:27,238
in fact it might even be more beneficial
to do so to allow it to shift and change

3120
02:16:27,239 --> 02:16:28,039
to

3121
02:16:28,040 --> 02:16:30,558
rotate to change into different kinds of

3122
02:16:30,559 --> 02:16:33,119
geometric shapes sending out a multitude

3123
02:16:33,120 --> 02:16:36,398
of points star-like shapes circular

3124
02:16:36,399 --> 02:16:39,279
shapes Flower of Life shapes whatever

3125
02:16:39,280 --> 02:16:41,839
may work for you but understand that

3126
02:16:41,840 --> 02:16:43,879
these are representative in

3127
02:16:43,880 --> 02:16:46,759
general sometimes more specifically but

3128
02:16:46,760 --> 02:16:48,959
in general of the way in which you

3129
02:16:48,960 --> 02:16:51,159
connect vibrationally to different

3130
02:16:51,160 --> 02:16:54,239
parallel reality moments and Frames to

3131
02:16:54,240 --> 02:16:57,079
inform and build the idea of your own

3132
02:16:57,080 --> 02:17:00,358
timeline by connecting All Around by

3133
02:17:00,359 --> 02:17:01,879
looking from different perspectives

3134
02:17:01,880 --> 02:17:04,039
looking inward looking outward you may

3135
02:17:04,040 --> 02:17:06,438
see the mandala shift moving outward

3136
02:17:06,439 --> 02:17:08,318
radiating lines you may see it moving

3137
02:17:08,319 --> 02:17:10,879
inward simultaneously you may see it as

3138
02:17:10,880 --> 02:17:13,999
double spirals you may see it as

3139
02:17:14,000 --> 02:17:16,799
tetrahedrons you may see it as

3140
02:17:16,800 --> 02:17:19,039
merkabas you may see it in a multitude

3141
02:17:19,040 --> 02:17:21,558
of ways

3142
02:17:21,559 --> 02:17:23,239
just know that it is generally

3143
02:17:23,240 --> 02:17:25,279
representative of the vibrational

3144
02:17:25,280 --> 02:17:26,839
patterns within your Consciousness that

3145
02:17:26,840 --> 02:17:29,398
are responsible for experiencing what

3146
02:17:29,399 --> 02:17:30,879
you now experience to be different

3147
02:17:30,880 --> 02:17:33,718
shifts in space and time to create and

3148
02:17:33,719 --> 02:17:36,279
construct the idea of a timeline from

3149
02:17:36,280 --> 02:17:38,959
different parallel points different

3150
02:17:38,960 --> 02:17:42,119
choices those that are relevant those

3151
02:17:42,120 --> 02:17:43,799
that will build your theme of

3152
02:17:43,800 --> 02:17:46,318
exploration those will allow

3153
02:17:46,319 --> 02:17:49,199
you to experience the fullness of your

3154
02:17:49,200 --> 02:17:50,718
life the fullness of who and what you

3155
02:17:50,719 --> 02:17:52,438
are are as this

3156
02:17:52,439 --> 02:17:55,999
personality just focus on the mandala

3157
02:17:56,000 --> 02:17:58,638
see it touching different points see it

3158
02:17:58,639 --> 02:18:00,279
reaching out into different parallel

3159
02:18:00,280 --> 02:18:02,318
realities see it pulling back

3160
02:18:02,319 --> 02:18:04,718
information into you that you need

3161
02:18:04,719 --> 02:18:06,398
experiences of other versions of

3162
02:18:06,399 --> 02:18:08,598
yourself on the greater being that you

3163
02:18:08,599 --> 02:18:11,318
are let yourself gain the perspective of

3164
02:18:11,319 --> 02:18:12,879
the overs soul that has multiple

3165
02:18:12,880 --> 02:18:15,239
simultaneous incarnations in a variety

3166
02:18:15,240 --> 02:18:18,159
of civilizations not only on a multitude

3167
02:18:18,160 --> 02:18:19,919
of Earth civilizations but of other

3168
02:18:19,920 --> 02:18:21,759
planetary civilizations

3169
02:18:21,760 --> 02:18:23,919
spiritual experiences multi-dimensional

3170
02:18:23,920 --> 02:18:26,558
physical and non-physical experiences

3171
02:18:26,559 --> 02:18:28,398
allow the mandala to reach into the

3172
02:18:28,399 --> 02:18:30,079
deepest dimensions and farthest

3173
02:18:30,080 --> 02:18:32,159
Dimensions expressing the heart and soul

3174
02:18:32,160 --> 02:18:35,558
and the seed of all that is reaching out

3175
02:18:35,559 --> 02:18:37,598
and creating all the Reflections in the

3176
02:18:37,599 --> 02:18:39,239
infinite Hall of Mirrors that is

3177
02:18:39,240 --> 02:18:41,759
existence reflections of itself to

3178
02:18:41,760 --> 02:18:44,839
itself experiences of itself by itself

3179
02:18:44,840 --> 02:18:46,799
in all the ways that it can in all the

3180
02:18:46,800 --> 02:18:49,159
ways that it is in all the ways that

3181
02:18:49,160 --> 02:18:51,039
existence can express itself and

3182
02:18:51,040 --> 02:18:53,478
experience itself as all of the aspects

3183
02:18:53,479 --> 02:18:56,879
of itself the whole and the all are the

3184
02:18:58,359 --> 02:19:00,478
one together see the

3185
02:19:00,479 --> 02:19:03,558
together see the
mandala as it informs you as it feeds

3186
02:19:03,559 --> 02:19:06,119
you as it brings you advice information

3187
02:19:06,120 --> 02:19:08,718
inspiration and Imagination as allows

3188
02:19:08,719 --> 02:19:11,438
you to choose the multi-spectral

3189
02:19:11,439 --> 02:19:13,279
multi-dimensional fruit that you can

3190
02:19:13,280 --> 02:19:16,199
pluck from this Mandela tree that brings

3191
02:19:16,200 --> 02:19:18,678
you all you need to feed you to nourish

3192
02:19:18,679 --> 02:19:21,919
you to replenish you to allow you to

3193
02:19:21,920 --> 02:19:23,518
change in the ways that are important

3194
02:19:23,519 --> 02:19:27,239
for you see it as a constantly Dynamic

3195
02:19:27,240 --> 02:19:30,079
interdimensionally changing fluctuating

3196
02:19:30,080 --> 02:19:32,919
energy pattern that feeds you constantly

3197
02:19:32,920 --> 02:19:36,039
and never ends that always always turns

3198
02:19:36,040 --> 02:19:38,879
within and with simultaneously in all

3199
02:19:38,880 --> 02:19:41,478
directions at once

3200
02:19:41,479 --> 02:19:42,678
multi-dimensionally the

3201
02:19:42,679 --> 02:19:45,119
multi-dimensional meraba of your

3202
02:19:45,120 --> 02:19:46,558
expression of Consciousness and

3203
02:19:46,559 --> 02:19:48,518
existence the unconditional love and

3204
02:19:48,519 --> 02:19:51,119
support that never ends that is infinite

3205
02:19:51,120 --> 02:19:53,759
in all directions finite within itself

3206
02:19:53,760 --> 02:19:56,159
in terms of each individual experience

3207
02:19:56,160 --> 02:19:57,599
but infinite in the number of

3208
02:19:57,600 --> 02:20:00,519
experiences you are having

3209
02:20:00,520 --> 02:20:02,839
simultaneously see the

3210
02:20:02,840 --> 02:20:04,879
mandala use the

3211
02:20:04,880 --> 02:20:08,999
mandala breathe the mandala be the

3212
02:20:09,000 --> 02:20:11,599
mandala it is your vibrational pattern

3213
02:20:11,600 --> 02:20:14,478
your core truth in a multi-dimensional

3214
02:20:14,479 --> 02:20:18,879
expression breathe it in feel it ride

3215
02:20:18,880 --> 02:20:22,159
the wave of it feel the vibrations of it

3216
02:20:22,160 --> 02:20:25,919
the ripples in it pulsing in and out to

3217
02:20:25,920 --> 02:20:29,239
infinity and back into the center in and

3218
02:20:29,240 --> 02:20:32,438
out breathing pulsing the breath of all

3219
02:20:32,439 --> 02:20:35,599
that is the mandala of your existence

3220
02:20:35,600 --> 02:20:38,119
your Consciousness the shapes that

3221
02:20:38,120 --> 02:20:41,879
represent your connections your parallel

3222
02:20:41,880 --> 02:20:45,199
realities All That You Are Here and

3223
02:20:45,200 --> 02:20:47,999
Now breathe it

3224
02:20:48,000 --> 02:20:51,239
in feel the vibration reson ating within

3225
02:20:51,240 --> 02:20:54,358
your core in your solar plexus as it

3226
02:20:54,359 --> 02:20:57,599
radiates outwards as it comes back into

3227
02:20:57,600 --> 02:21:02,070
you as it matches the beat of your

3228
02:21:02,080 --> 02:21:05,358
heart as it forms the brilliant light

3229
02:21:05,359 --> 02:21:07,398
the spark and Seed of Light Within you

3230
02:21:07,399 --> 02:21:10,279
that is the seed of all that is see the

3231
02:21:10,280 --> 02:21:13,919
mandala feel the mandala be the mandala

3232
02:21:13,920 --> 02:21:16,079
be the vibrational pattern of your core

3233
02:21:16,080 --> 02:21:19,239
truth the truth you know yourself to be

3234
02:21:19,240 --> 02:21:21,839
just be it it doesn't have to be

3235
02:21:21,840 --> 02:21:25,199
anything but just being right now just

3236
02:21:25,200 --> 02:21:28,358
feel the vibrations throughout your body

3237
02:21:28,359 --> 02:21:30,438
feel every cell in your body resonating

3238
02:21:30,439 --> 02:21:33,559
to it harmonizing with it like an

3239
02:21:33,560 --> 02:21:36,679
orchestra a beautiful harmonic of every

3240
02:21:36,680 --> 02:21:39,999
cell and every atom vibrating in a chord

3241
02:21:40,000 --> 02:21:42,799
of every subatomic particle of every

3242
02:21:42,800 --> 02:21:45,879
aspect of your DNA harmonizing with this

3243
02:21:45,880 --> 02:21:48,239
mandala vibration that is

3244
02:21:48,240 --> 02:21:51,279
you stretching into the multiv

3245
02:21:51,280 --> 02:21:53,159
into all parallel realities and all

3246
02:21:53,160 --> 02:21:55,519
Dimensions bringing back what you need

3247
02:21:55,520 --> 02:21:58,559
from everywhere and every when and

3248
02:21:58,560 --> 02:22:01,159
everyone as you send out to everywhere

3249
02:22:01,160 --> 02:22:03,279
and everyone and everywhere what they

3250
02:22:03,280 --> 02:22:06,079
need and being of absolute service to

3251
02:22:06,080 --> 02:22:10,389
all so that you may be

3252
02:22:10,399 --> 02:22:16,559
served it is a Veo of service the

3253
02:22:16,560 --> 02:22:19,358
mandala is your connecting link to all

3254
02:22:19,359 --> 02:22:21,759
that is it is it is your expression of

3255
02:22:21,760 --> 02:22:24,719
all that is it is all that is expressing

3256
02:22:24,720 --> 02:22:29,559
itself as you your unique vibrational

3257
02:22:29,560 --> 02:22:33,438
pattern the beauty the

3258
02:22:33,439 --> 02:22:35,318
Artistry the

3259
02:22:35,319 --> 02:22:38,879
creativity the love the unconditional

3260
02:22:38,880 --> 02:22:42,438
support the unconditional existence the

3261
02:22:42,439 --> 02:22:44,719
unconditional vibration the

3262
02:22:46,399 --> 02:22:52,950
Unconditional Love of All That is

3263
02:22:52,960 --> 02:22:55,679
resonance is all there

3264
02:22:55,680 --> 02:23:05,469
is the existence is all there

3265
02:23:05,479 --> 02:23:09,639
is Breathe It In Breathe It

3266
02:23:09,640 --> 02:23:13,599
Out breathe it in and breathe it

3267
02:23:13,600 --> 02:23:17,559
out breathe it in and breathe it

3268
02:23:17,560 --> 02:23:21,478
out be the mandala be the

3269
02:23:21,479 --> 02:23:25,519
vibration be the Consciousness be the

3270
02:23:25,520 --> 02:23:32,110
existence be all that you are for it is

3271
02:23:32,120 --> 02:23:38,790
beautiful and it is

3272
02:23:38,800 --> 02:23:43,599
required float with it keep it with you

3273
02:23:43,600 --> 02:23:44,759
use it
