---
heading: Part 1
title: "The Interstellar Alliance social experiment Step 6: Gatherings"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2024-08-24
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 680
tags: ["reincarnation", "sirius"]
---



The idea now in step six is connected to what you have already called C5s or close encounters of the fifth kind. 

This is where you gather together with other likeminded individuals to create communication, connection, and


## Gatherings

You gather together with other like-minded individuals to create communication, connection, and contact from humans up to ETs.

To do several things that can grab, as you say, the attention of UFOs passing by, to ask them to stop or to show themselves or to demonstrate that they are something different than your airplanes, than your satellites, by maneuvering in certain ways that you know you do not generally have the technology to exhibit.

These gatherings can be either that:
- you find individuals and groups that are already doing this and you join them, or
- using your own imagination you create such a gathering to pull people, initiating a gathering of your own and demonstrating through the flashing of lights.

Do not use lasers.

The flashing of regular lights in patterns.

The idea of meditations, reaching out telepathically to ships passing by to ask them with respect to stop, to show themselves to you, to demonstrate unusual maneuvers, to begin the contact process from your side as well as from our side, to start learning how to initiate the idea of the invitation to create communion, connection, contact, community between humans on Earth and your galactic family.

So gatherings are important. 

Find a somewhat remote place.

For example, Joshua Tree is more conducive to receiving interaction from UFOs, UAPs, from our ships.

But putting these gatherings together not only builds connection between humans on Earth and ETs, but also connections between the humans themselves with each other, to create communities of similar vibration, to get you all into a similar frequency, to be willing to be open to contact which is not so very far away.

So this is an acceleration, an opportunity with the changing frequencies that now exist on your planet, to choose to navigate in the direction of the versions of the parallel reality Earths that will experience contact in the not-so-distant future. 

In just a few years, it will begin. But this will help accelerate, unify, bond within a similar frequency many humans on your planet. If you will be willing to undertake the joining of groups that are doing this or creating your own groups, this will accelerate that bonding experience. This will create a broader frequency around the planet, depending upon how many of you are willing to do this, that can establish the correct frequency to navigate to the versions of Earth that will experience open contact.

Be creative, imaginative, bold and go forth.

Be connected, open, be willing, to receive, to give, to form the link, to form the bridge between your world and our worlds, between your world and the stars, between your soul and our souls, between your spirits and our spirits, between your minds and our minds.

Do these gatherings if you wish as step six of the Interstellar Alliance social experiment, because it involves activity, action, doing. It involves the commitment to the idea of being willing to participate in open contact in the Interstellar Alliance social experiment being given to Earth to you as a gift, to allow you to experience more of yourselves as you experience more of the cosmos, more of the family that awaits you out here and that can eventually come to Earth, so that you understand that Earth is your home.

Not just the idea of any specific city, not just the idea of any specific country, but that you begin energetically to dissolve the borders and understand that Earth is your home. That you start identifying the entire planet as your home, that you reach out as the entire planet from your home to our homes among the stars.

So gather, enjoy, reach out, feel unconditional love both in giving and receiving, and invite, invite, invite us to interact with you. There will be more and more each time you do this, a buildup of the frequency and more and more responses until such time as you will know beyond a shadow of a doubt that we are here around your world interacting with you, sending you love, sending you joy, and that it is our passion and our pleasure to be welcome into your home as we welcome you into ours. So gather, gather, and gather together.


### Life Review and Reincarnation

I'm watching videos on Gaia about the life review and the choices we make when we pass on.

When you do your life review, if you've had more negative than positive things show up in your life review, do you automatically have to come back on Earth to try again, or can you go to the fourth dimension or is there some other place that you can go?

Bashar: Yes, several places. If you feel that there is a need to balance what has happened in a certain way, then you will make that choice and you will go wherever it is when you want to go there that you feel is most appropriate for you. You have total free will as a spirit. So you may have to finish or complete something to rebalance yourself because you agreed to do so. But when, where, and how you do so is completely up to you.


### Sirius Counterpart and an ET Encounter

I would like to first of all thank you for your love and wisdom that you share with us. It was a really exciting journey and it helped me so much, and I love to see the synchronicity popping into my life when I act on my joy. So thank you.

Yes, it is our passion and our pleasure. What would you like to discuss this day?

My first question is about my counterpart from Sirius. I meditated and I saw a woman with octopus hair. Am I on the right track, or can you tell me more about her?

Well, you're getting a symbolic representation of the fact that they are amphibious creatures. They don't look like that. They don't have what you call octopus hair. But the idea is that they are amphibious. They look a little bit more like what you would call a salamander, something similar to that idea or a cross between a salamander and a humanoid form. But they don't have octopus hair; that's your symbol for reflecting the idea that they spend a lot of their time in the water, that they are highly intelligent, as octopi also are. But the idea is that's simply something that is most closely related to the idea of the Sirius beings in their amphibious form. So you are making that connection. It's just that you have a more symbolic representation of how they appear rather than a literal one.

Is she having a message for me? To go forth, to be bold, to be yourself, to be true, to dig deep into your emotionality and understand how the emotions work with belief systems to reinforce the idea of whatever reality you believe is true for you.

My next question is about an ET encounter that I had this year. I was making a slip for my son and it was foggy outside, and we make fun with my partner when it's foggy that ETs are doing some stuff behind the scene. All of a sudden, I saw a big white tall being behind my glass window and it started to enter the room with its hand, and then it started to elongate the fingers. I got really scared. I don't know who the being was. Can you tell me more about that? Why were you scared? I don't know how to overcome this fear because I did the exercise with the picture on the window and I tried to work with my limiting beliefs. I just was terrified, like I felt I would be eaten like a dinosaur is approaching basically.

This is relatively common at this stage in human evolution. When you are exposed to higher frequency beings, you interpret that — or your body interprets that — as if you are being exposed to spirit, which your body interprets as if you are dying. That's why you go into panic mode, survival mode, fight or flight mode, because you interpret the frequency as if your mind is dying. You're not going to die, but that's the way your body interprets that frequency, until such time as you allow yourself enough practice to get used to it so that you don't fear dying anymore when you feel that frequency, that energy. This being was giving you an opportunity to practice being exposed to their higher frequency to get used to the idea over time, so that by the time open contact happens, your people will not panic. You will not fear that exposure to our higher frequencies will cause you to die. So this is simply an opportunity to practice letting go and letting your body calm down when exposed to that higher frequency.

What can I do to let my body calm down in that moment? Well, you can talk to your body consciousness and let it know — have a conversation with it. Let it know that it's not going to die, that this is going to be an ecstatic experience that will include your body consciousness in this experience. It will not be annihilated. You have to spend some time actually calming it down by having conversations with your body consciousness, with your physical mind. So let your spirit talk to your physical mind. Let your soul, your higher mind, talk to your physical mind. Set aside time to actually have conversations. Explain what's going on to yourself, to your physical mind, and let it become used to the idea and let it know that it will not be annihilated and it will not die because it can raise its frequency with you and become a fourth density being that can thrive in that higher frequency that you yourself are becoming higher in frequency. And therefore, as you get used to the higher frequency within your own body, you can also get used to the higher frequencies of other beings who may come to you. So have those conversations with your physical mind. Explain it as you would explain it to a child.

Was the being from Sirius or was it a different species? No, it was a different species. It may be a mix of what you call Pleiadian and tall white.

My third question is about a challenge I'm going through. My son is a toddler and he doesn't like to sleep; he sleeps very little since being a baby. I know sleep is vital. But remember we also talk about the idea that the new generations are different and may not necessarily have the same biological rhythms as those people on your planet from the past. So let it find its own natural rhythm. Let him sleep when he knows he needs to sleep. Let it be a natural thing. Don't force it.

And how about me, because I'm really tired? Can I somehow replace or get energy from a different source, or what should I do? Again, you must find your own natural biological rhythm. There may be times when you need to be asleep when you think you should be awake, and times when you should be awake when you think you need to be asleep. So you need to find your own natural rhythm that energizes you, resets you, refreshes you, but it may be at different times of the day or night than you think. So fall into a more natural rhythm. When you have energy, be awake. When you feel tired, go to sleep, no matter what time it is. If you need to arrange for someone to look after your child while you sleep, do so.

My next question is regarding a tortoise because I got a pet tortoise. I feel very loved by that being, and I would never have gotten a tortoise. Is there something I'm learning from the tortoise, or is there some connection to reptilians? To some degree, but mostly it's a symbol of slow down a little bit. Take your time, enjoy the moment, stay in the present.

---

**Question about the Dark Night of the Soul**

Hey, what's going on, Bashar? It's Rohan aka RXMundy from Bucks County, PA, back with another question. As you might remember, I am a rap artist and I do have an upcoming project titled "Dark Knight of the Soul." It's an EP that I've been working on, and I was just curious to get your perspective. How do you and your civilization define a dark night of the soul? Do you have them on your planet? Any insights into the causes or the purpose of a dark night of the soul?

No, we do not have them on our planet because we are willing to face our challenges with full consciousness. The dark night of the soul is a device that humans often use to isolate themselves in a way where they force themselves to go finally in a direction that they need to go in because they simply have no other choice. They either have to face it and come up with an inspiration that leads them in a direction that will serve them and expand them, or often they will simply take themselves out of physical reality and they will die. So the idea is to allow yourself to understand that this is the general purpose of the dark night of the soul in human terms: to put yourself in a situation where you have no choice but to either move forward or leave this physical reality.

The synchronicity that you are experiencing at this moment is that it is your higher self calling to you to get you to pay attention to something that is very important. That is the synchronicity of the sound that you are hearing right now. You are receiving a call from your soul, from your higher mind, from your higher self, to really isolate what's really important in your life, to figure that out and make a choice that leads you in a direction toward the light of your being that will allow you to finally break free from negativity, from fear-based beliefs, and truly be yourself, truly move in that direction. You give yourself no choice by putting yourself through that degree of challenge in your life. But remember, you have to be a very strong soul and a very strong spirit in order to have attracted that experience to yourself. So having a dark night of the soul is often a very powerful sign of how powerful you are as a spirit in your capability to transform your life in a positive way by going through that challenging experience. That's what it's for. It removes any other option from you other than moving straight forward as your true self or simply leaving physical reality altogether and starting again.

---

**Question about Using Expanded Consciousness Abilities to Serve Humanity**

It's an honor to speak with you, as it is for us with you as well. Thank you. My first question is: I do things like automatic writing. I've seen things before they happen. I have at one point left my physical body, and there are various other things. How can I use this within this lifetime to uplift humanity? What is the purpose of me even knowing this at this time?

These things are the result and side effects of the expansion of consciousness going on on your planet at this time. Certainly, through automatic writing, you can bring through information that may be of assistance and helpful to other people. Isn't that of service to humanity in that particular method? Yes. And seeing things before they physically manifest — isn't that also something that could be in some way, shape, or form used to serve others? Yes. Because you understand that prediction is simply an awareness of the energy that exists at the moment the prediction is made. If you sense that energy and tell someone what the energy is that you're sensing, what the likelihood is of something manifesting, and it's something they don't prefer, then you've given them an opportunity to realize what the energy is like and how they may be able to change it if it is something that they would rather change. Isn't that being of service to someone as well? Yes, it is.

So why is it so mysterious and so strange about how to use these expanded consciousness abilities in service to humanity? When you are out of body, you could go different places, you could gather information, you could bring it back to humanity in different ways on different subjects. This is a lot of what some of the ancient priesthood/priestesshood used to do in Atlantis and ancient Egypt. They would go into these out-of-body states, they would go and gather information from higher realms and bring that information back and apply it in their society. And that can be information about anything — the nature of humanity, the nature of nature, the nature of technology, all sorts of cosmic information and answers that could help humanity. So you can go and gather information out of body, bring it back, remember to transmit or write this information down, and share it with those who are willing to receive it. Is that not something you think you can do? Absolutely. So then you can be of humanity's service in many different ways.

---

**Question about How the Sassani Civilization Interacts with Animals**

In your realm where you live, how does your society interact with animals on Earth? How do they on our world of Sassani? We interact with animals all the time, but our world is left relatively natural. We don't have big built-up cities. Our cities are our spaceships. So when we are on our planet physically, the animals in a sense have the run of the place, I suppose you would say, and everything operates on pure synchronism. So the animals will come to us or we will find animals that wish to engage with us, wish to communicate with us in a variety of telepathic ways, and we enjoy these communions and interactions very much. They are intelligent beings. They have their own reflections. They have their own purpose. They have their own lives. And we interact with them as we would interact with any member of our society.

Would you be able to provide information as to how we could interact with animals in a kinder, more respectful way and just be able to communicate with them? Yes. Most animals will communicate with the idea of visualization. In other words, send them pictures and feelings rather than words. They will pick up on that and they will get used to that form of communication coming from humans, which at this point is relatively rare except for those humans who have really developed a love bond with animals. The idea is that they will receive those pictures, see them doing what it is you are attempting to communicate with them, see them doing it in your mind's eye, and send the feeling that goes with it. Send feelings of love with the pictures that you imagine them performing those actions in the visualization in your imagination, and eventually you will see them reflecting those actions themselves, and you will start to develop more telempathic communication with them. Remember, it's not telepathy, it's telempathy. You have to have a bond, a love bond, with the animal.

And can you do something similar with the plants and with the Earth itself? Absolutely.

When we speak about love, there are moments where I feel like it's almost an eternal love, but it feels like a stillness, a very, very still feeling. It is the idea of what you translate as the sensation of unconditional love is your physical translation of the frequency of existence itself. That's how you translate it. So it's going to feel infinite, eternal, and still, but at the same time will feel very active and engaging and energetic because it is the actual frequency of existence itself.

---

