---
title: "Countdown to Contact Year 1"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2024-01-20
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
tags: ['breakup']
weight: 633
---



**Question about a Relationship Breakup**

Recently my girlfriend left me after 15 years for all the mistakes that I have done for the last years, and she was right.

But through the whole process, I've changed, and I saw that I really love her. 

I have really changed, and now I think I will be the best candidate for her to spend the rest of her life with me. Isn't the universe supposed to give me another chance, another shot with her?

The universe gives you all sorts of chances, but it may not necessarily be with what you consider to be the same person.

Because if there is something else that is now more representative — someone else that's now more representative of the changes you have made in your life — then if that person shows up in your life, you won't care that it's not the same person, because that person will feel correct because that person is a reflection of the changes you have made as a perfect match. 

So don't insist that you know that you are the best candidate for that other person, because you don't actually know that for a fact. And can be preventing you from actually attracting who you need that would actually be the best relationship for you. 

So just allow yourself to know you have changed; allow what needs to come in to come in. Because even if it looks like the same person is coming back to you, it's not the same person, because if you've changed, they will have to change to match the changes in you as well. 

So don't insist on the look of who the person is; allow yourself to simply let in the person that is actually the best representation of the changes you've made within yourself.


### Gender Expression and Transgenderism

My question is about variations of gender expression and the new species of humans that you speak of coming through. Currently on the planet, there's a lot of anger and violence projected towards people who are not cisgendered. 

I was wondering if you could speak to us about transgenderism and variations of gender expression, and how we can better understand each other's differences within this. I'm also curious about this new species of human that you speak of coming through, and if in that evolution we are moving beyond the old understandings of sex and gender, and if we are collectively moving towards a more androgynous expression.

To some degree, you are. You will not lose the idea of the genders, but you will be more allowing of the understanding that spirit is everything and nothing and can be anything in physical terms. So the idea of transgender people is a way of showing humanity that it can actually choose what to be in a far wider range of expressions than it may have previously thought. That it is more fluid than it thinks, that it is more capable of expressing itself in a multitude of ways than previously thought. So you have to look at the idea that it is an expression of spirit — that spirit can be anything and everything — and it can serve humanity to be far more flexible in its understanding of what it can be.



### First Contact Specialist Role

As a child during the night, I was taking part in the hybridization projects, and also that nowadays during the nights, I'm on the spaceship with the hybrid children. So I'm really looking forward to working as a first contact specialist. Why is it that I cannot remember anything from my experiences during the night?

You obviously remember something, or you wouldn't be having this question.

So the idea is that there is a timing to remembering these things, and the timing at which you remember them is used as a barometer to understand how close contact actually is. So it's all right. Just move forward by acting on the formula, acting on your passion, and you will allow your life to unfold in a way where you will arrive exactly where you need to be exactly when you need to be there, interacting with exactly who you need to interact with, and remembering what it is you need to remember.

But there's no point in remembering it before you need to remember it. It's not time yet for you to remember a lot of the things you were taught on the ships because those things don't come into play until you're actually interacting with the hybrid children on Earth.

I sense that I'm communicating with them telempathically, yes. And I sense every now and then in the daytime they are with me in the room, in my living room, and then sometimes I can't see them but I sense them, and sometimes I visualize or it just is an impression that they start materializing in my presence.

That's the way it might happen, yes. In a sense, because what they're doing is coming into a slightly altered version of physical reality that is just beyond the normal physical reality that you consider to be your physical reality, to entice your senses to stretch and perceive them in that reality. And the rate at which humanity can do that is also used as a barometer to understand how close those two realities are coming together. When you start to be able to perceive what's in that reality and make it one reality, shift yourself to that version of reality where they also exist (because they exist in a slightly different version of physical reality than you do), being able to sense that and see them more and more and more physically as time goes on means that those reality vibrations are merging, and you're coming closer and closer and closer to the point of contact.

During the daytime, I often hear myself saying, "Oh yes, you're welcome," but during the night when I'm going to the toilet, I think, "Well, no, not now." So during the nights, there's still a fear inside of me to meet them. Is that a problem? Do I have to heal that?

Again, the idea is to look within yourself for anything that you are afraid might happen if you move forward in your passion and deal with it and let it go. Because again, remember some of it is just unfamiliarity with their higher frequency that may cause your physical body to go into survival mode because exposure to their frequency can make your physical body believe that it's actually dying, and that's why it goes into survival mode, which can feel like fear. So it's not about the idea even necessarily that you have fear beliefs to let go of, other than the idea that you have to get used to a different vibration that your physical mind and physical body interprets as death, because a lot of the higher vibrations of interdimensional beings operate on a very similar frequency to that of spirit, and so your physical body can interpret that interaction and that frequency as if it's dying. That may be mostly what you're feeling. You'll get used to it if you remove any fear of death that you have by understanding that you're already in spirit and that physical reality is just a projection from spirit.

My highest excitement is channeling, going into the channel state. I do that a lot as often as I can, but then I notice I only channel my higher self. It really feels like me. But my highest excitement is to channel other species.

You start with your higher self, like many channels do, to get you used to the idea of operating on that level. If and when you start channeling for other people, then it may need to call in other beings. But the idea is that when you channel for other people who have questions that they want answers to, that grounds the information and energy in them and pulls it through you so that you don't have to think about it. But you're getting used to the state by dealing with your own higher self first. This is common. So the way to advance it is to channel for other people who have questions to which they really desire the answers. Then it may call in other kinds of beings.

I already do that, but I'm not ready for the next step.

That's all right. And remember, there's nothing wrong with the information coming from your own higher self. It is every bit as capable as any other dimensional being or extraterrestrial in delivering information that can help people. So you may not necessarily insist on having to go beyond that. Just allow the information that serves people to come through from whatever source it needs to come through. Don't insist that you have to connect to other beings if your higher self is doing the job.

---

**Question about Red Light Synchronicities and Limiting Beliefs**

I have a question about red light synchronicities and limiting beliefs. My highest excitement is manifesting an alien contact center. In the Netherlands, we have an option to a beautiful piece of land next to the forest, and that would be a great place for that alien contact center.

I cannot comment on this at this time. Just follow the formula and see what happens.

How do I make the difference between red light synchronicity or a limiting belief or a lack of trust inside of me?

With honest self-examination as to whether you are dampening the excitement or whether the passion still remains but you're unable to act on the opportunity. Usually, red light synchronicity allows the passion to act on an opportunity to remain but removes the capability of acting on the opportunity, whereas limiting beliefs can actually make the passion diminish.

---

**Question about a Hole in the Earth and Admiral Byrd**

Hi, Bashar. My name is Lisa. I'm asking a question regarding your comments that there is no hole or center core in the Earth. I know that there was a question about this a while back, and you said no, that there was no hole in the center of the Earth. However, Richard Byrd in his personal journal, when he had his expedition on behalf of the United States in Antarctica, put in his notes that there was a hole in the earth and he actually flew his plane into this hole and actually met with aliens. I wanted to know more about your opinion on this and if you had any comments on that.

Yes, we have discussed this before. Many people, when they think they have actually entered the physical Earth, have simply gone through a portal into another dimension. They do not perceive that they have done this, and therefore think that what they're experiencing is physically inside the earth when in fact it's in a different dimension altogether.

---

**Questions from the Audience about Contact Events**

The first question is: I believe you've mentioned that we will not be able to see the other train tracks somewhere around the year 2050. As there is a high probability of having a mass contact event between 2026 and 2027, how will the realities who do not experience contact perceive this event? Will they look back on this instance in a similar way we look back on the Roswell event — very much in denial?

It depends on the person. There is still an opportunity in the upcoming events to have a particular perspective of it or no perspective at all — not even knowing that it's happening. There is still the possibility of a range of reactions to it, because you are still seeing other people's choices. So for a while, different people will respond or react in different ways, or not even be aware that it's happening. These things will start slowly in phases, subtly, and not everyone on your planet may even be aware that it's occurring. But the different reactions from those that become aware of it may also exhibit a wide range from acceptance to disbelief to total non-acceptance. So again, there is still time for people to make choices about how they relate to the idea of open contact, and you will see a number of different reactions and responses to any particular UFO events or contact events for a few years to come.

This person says: I was wondering if the first major contact event will happen in dream form. I feel like more people would be open to the idea of it since they are in a dream state. I'm aware that a lot of people are already making contact while dreaming and just don't remember it. But will we have a dream we remember which will unlock the door to making physical contact?

That is a high probability. It is common in first contact scenarios in many civilizations, including a high probability in yours, that the idea of widespread open contact will be experienced en masse in dreams before it occurs in physical reality.

Will open contact happen on a large scale visible to everyone, ensuring that no one is left out?

No, because again there are those who may choose not to experience it. It will happen for those who are willing and open to experience such a thing. So again, the scale of it will happen in phases; it will unfold in phases. Those who are open to the vibration will experience certain aspects of it, and this will change over time and broaden over time. But there will be those who are simply unwilling to experience such things, and we have to respect that. Therefore, vibrationally, they will simply not be capable of participating in the experiences that others may be open to experiencing.

What will be the impact on those with religious beliefs when we establish open contact? Will they resist, or will you assist them in gaining a deeper understanding of Jesus and God?

We will assist where we can, where people are willing and open to receive assistance. Again, there will be a range of responses and reactions based on people's beliefs, be they positive and/or negative. And again, this range of responses and reactions will still exist for quite some time as you process what is going on, as you work through things, and determine for yourselves which track you ultimately prefer to be on.

How are you feeling regarding the current UAP issues with the US government? Will we make progress soon for disclosure and contact?

You are making progress. The term "soon" is relative, but again progress will be made in a number of different ways, not even necessarily so much by your government, although there will come a time when they understand that there really is no other choice but to reveal what they know, at least to a large degree, because the movements that exist in the public domain will have advanced farther at a certain point than the government's abilities to interact and expose the information that they are aware of. So it will happen as a multifaceted approach from different corners of different public interests and different public activities and come together at a certain timing, again through the window over the next decade or so.

Since it's the year one of Countdown to Contact, can you tell us more about the ET races that we could encounter, like Sassani, Pleiadian, Yael?

Again, it is most likely that those most similar to you, such as the Pleiadian civilizations, will be among the first that you will experience when open contact begins in earnest. Hybrid civilizations: you will experience Yael will likely be first because they will be the ones bringing the hybrid children to Earth eventually. My civilization, the Sassani, will not necessarily be first, but we will be in the mix further down the line as well, as well as other civilizations.

You've mentioned that a lot of ET races use similar ship types. We could of course reach out telepathically, but are there also physical differences in the ships we would notice, for example between the triangular ships, Pleiadian, Yael, Sassani?

Well, again, yes, of course. You have witnessed many different types of ships that have many different kinds of functions. Different civilizations usually have types of ships that are relevant for them. A lot of civilizations will use the saucer-shaped ships; many will use triangular-shaped ships. There is a kind of exchange that does exist between civilizations of some of the technologies, and so the use of different kinds of ships has become more mixed over time with different civilizations acquiring the technologies of other civilizations. Many will use the cylindrical mothercraft or city ships because that is a convenient form, although some will also be spherical. But again, you can't always necessarily tell what civilization now because of the mixing of technologies. Though for the most part, Pleiadians will retain the idea of the classic saucer shape as you understand it, and our civilization and many hybrids will retain the general use of triangular ships because that is what is representative of our general technology.

Regarding ET writing that some people see on the ship's exterior when seeing the ships up close, what is that writing for?

The writing exists as a mark for the identification of ships in terms of their function, and it is in a sense read as a code vibrationally that is telempathically received by those who are sensitive to it to understand the function of the ship and its nature in terms of how it is telempathically connected to those piloting the ships. It is a kind of a signature vibration that contains a lot of information that others can download, so to speak, to understand the identity of the ship, the function of the ship, the function of the crew, the mission they are on. The writing can even change from time to time.

This person is curious about the energy and frequency where we will have first contact. They say: "I feel like I'm personally ready for that contact with ETs. Can you speak a little more on how we can embody, accelerate, and integrate for first contact?"

Follow the formula as precisely as you can, as often as you can, to accelerate your vibration and make you more vibrationally compatible with the idea of contact.

What are some suggestions for practicing how to change or alter our frequency to match those of entities like yourself? Will it be necessary in order to communicate during first contact?

Follow the formula.

This person is asking: Is it possible or probable for some of us to witness humanity becoming an honorary part of the galactic Alliance? At 21 years old, I'm hopeful that the advancement in technology and health care might make it a reality within my lifetime.

Yes, as long as an individual doesn't choose to leave the planet during the time of open contact, those especially of a younger age are highly likely to experience the idea of open contact and a relatively large chunk of the full spectrum of contact over time.

For me, this first contact is not really a science event or a fruition of a science fiction dream; it is a cultural event, a sociological event, like in the film Close Encounters of the Third Kind. Can you speak to this?

It is a sociological event first and foremost, because it will alter your entire society, and you must alter your entire society on your own in order to make yourselves more compatible with the idea of contact. So the idea is it is less scientific, although there will be some technological elements to it, some technological exchange, knowledge exchange, so on and so forth, knowledge given, technological ideas given and shared. But it is first and foremost a sociological event. Your entire society — those that are willing and open, those that are shifting in the direction of open contact — will be very different from your society of today. So the idea is that yes, primarily it is sociological.

The idea of humans organizing for contact — in what shapes or form would you suggest or inspire humans to organize themselves so they can globally have a more joyful and exciting open contact experience?

Some of that type of information will be being delivered in upcoming transmissions that have to do with what we are preparing you for now. As we said, this is Countdown to Contact Year One, and we will begin to make certain suggestions for actions and behavioral changes in members of your society that have to do with what we are terming the Interstellar Alliance Sociological Experiment, and it will be delivered to you in a variety of steps over time in the upcoming year. So some of those suggestions will be forthcoming in the upcoming transmissions.

You've recommended putting up a picture of an alien in our windows. I have little children, and in speaking to them about contact, I'm not sure they're ready to see an alien in the window. Do you have other suggestions for the little ones?

Depending upon their age, your children are already exposed to many representations of ETs and other kinds of beings in their programming on television and in movies. You can simply be creative and imaginative and choose representations that you deem to be, shall we say, "cuter" than average so that children can relate to them, and use those instead.

When contact is made, what reactions do you anticipate from us?

Again, there will be a range of responses and reactions depending upon belief systems, willingness to be open or not to the idea that you are not alone, willingness to be open to the idea of the kind of changes that would have to occur within you as individuals and within all of you as a society. So again, there will be a range of reactions and responses, and this is what we anticipate will occur at first.

What qualities make us the best candidates for open contact?

Love, peace, creativity, imagination, and a willingness to be your true selves, a willingness to raise your vibration, a willingness to expand your consciousness, a willingness to connect to all that is in a variety of ways.

Could you tell me more about the sanctuaries you speak of? You mentioned people will be led to them by synchronicity. Could someone like myself prepare a space or the sanctuaries and set them aside? Can I be put on the list?

Again, people will be creating these sanctuaries through synchronicity opportunities. Whether you yourself are involved in the creation of one or simply allowing synchronicity to lead you eventually to those that have been created by humans on your planet, it doesn't really matter. It is up to you to follow your passion as to whether or not you are actually finding a space and creating a sanctuary or being open to being attracted to a sanctuary once they exist.



