---
title: "Anuhet: Templates Of The Future"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2025-03-07
icon: Ryokah
showdate: true
weight: 1990
tags: ['anuhet']
---


The Anuhet are currently unmanifest. So they exist as a potential. Yet there is a solidified version of them that I can describe that matches your species' timeline trajectory now.

If that timeline trajectory changes based on your energy, the version of the Anuhet that you connect with may look slightly or more greatly different, depending on how you are manifesting your reality presently. 

Because again, they are so future that they are almost like a living template that still shapeshifts its appearance based on what you—the ancestor versions of them—do and achieve during this splitting prism process.

Think of an infinite white space, diamond light shining bright. 

In this space is a being that appears to be made of black void dark matter. See a void space being, a silhouette of a human.

See within them the cosmos, many stars, many planets. See the infinity of the universe within them.

Sense that within the darkness behind the stars, there is a being with a face and a body not so different from yours.

But the night sky that is their body's imagery conceals their identity, conceals their face.

If you become aware of the life force behind the void face, the energy, the personification of the being comes into form, comes into being.

Remember, the Anuhet are not necessarily physical beings.

They are much more quasi-physical than we are. 

I describe them as a void body with a universe made manifest within because the Anuhet are indistinguishable from the incarnated, fully expressed, and fully ascended human genetic source-self.

When I say human genetic source-self, I don't just mean humanity. I mean human DNA as it expresses in many species.

Remember, your human genome has been distributed throughout the cosmos. It's been introduced into so many species, you would be astonished if you saw all of the hybrid forms that have been brought into existence through the genetic contributions of humanity. 

That genetic human consciousness is the collective consciousness of all expressions of human DNA across the infinity of the universe. It is this consciousness that is what has ascended into a species.

So if this seems paradoxical, good. If this seems like a real mind yoga, good. Continue to lean into that pose, and those tight spaces will begin to open, more light will come in, and much more than what has been described here on this day shall be revealed.

