---
heading: "Interstellar Alliance social experiment Step 2"
title: ""
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2024-03-23
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 1912
tags: 
---


### A Sudden Shift from Joy to Horror and Back

Asker: I lived my life for years in a very joyful and happy way. I lived according to the formula, even though I did not know the formula because I first heard of you and the formula about three months ago. 

So about one year ago, this changed literally overnight without any visible reason. I woke up in the morning and had a feeling of horror — not pain, but horror. 

This stayed for about three months. Then I overcame it, and the joy returned, but not as often as before. So now I have a very happy day maybe one in a moment of months, and the last day I was very, very happy was when I got to know about you three months ago. I don't feel bad or sad; it's kind of neutral, but I miss this happiness, this feeling of being high without having taken any drugs. My question is: how can I reconnect to this? Should I reconnect? Should I trust that it will come when it's important for me?

Yes, you must allow your life to unfold. It is important for you to go through processes. 

Sometimes the experience that you are describing is allowing your body consciousness to get used to the idea of higher frequencies, which sometimes it may treat as if it is dying. Exposure to higher frequencies may make the body consciousness feel like it is dying, and so that may incite survival mechanisms within you, creating the experience you had of what you are referring to as horror. But it is something that you are going through to allow your body consciousness to be more in alignment with your higher mind, your soul itself. And so yes, the joy can come back more consistently if you are being of service to humanity through some particular action that represents your passion. So the more that you can interact and act with humanity in service to humanity in whatever way your imagination and creativity so directs you and so guides you, will allow the joy to come back into your life in a more consistent way.


Asker: I had two experiences with kind of light balls in my life. The first 30 years ago, when I was walking home, a glancing, blending light appeared just in front of me. The second was about 15 years ago, when I was walking the dog with the daughter of my former husband, and then the light ball crossed over our way from left to right very fast, and we both saw it with our physical eyes. Do you have an idea what this was and what it should say to me?

Bashar: These again have to do with your guides, with beings from other dimensions, allowing you to know that you can increase your ability to perceive them, stretching your senses as you expand your consciousness, giving you markers in a sense, representations of vibrational frequencies to attain. So pay attention to how you felt when you experienced those spheres of light, those orbs of light, and allow yourself to come from that vibration — that vibration of awareness, that vibration of astonishment — and know that they are reflections of the same kind of light that you give off as a soul, as a spirit, as a being, as a consciousness. So they are guides, they are friends, they are members of soul families. They are in some way, shape, or form helping to train you to perceive in other realms more readily. They're letting you know that you are never alone, that you always have help.

May you tell me something about the Mazani? What people on your planet refer to as the tall Grays. That is the Mazani. Do they have special information for us? They do, but it is not something we can discuss at this time. I met one of them in a stage between awakeness and sleep, like a very real dream, and he was coming towards me, standing in front of my bed, very, very tall. But in this state of nearly dreaming, I was afraid and I screamed.

Again, it's about being exposed to higher frequency energies to get you used to them, so that your physical consciousness will not react in a fearful way, so it will not assume that exposure to that energy means that you are dying. Again, remember many beings have frequencies that are very similar to spirit, and your body consciousness may interpret exposure to that energy as if you are now approaching spirit, which means that you are dying. So in a sense, letting go of any fear of death will allow you to engage with higher frequency beings more readily, more easily, more comfortably.

That's a point — I'm afraid of death, yes. Remember that death is just waking up into your true self, that's all it is. Remember that this is a dream. Physical reality is a dream. You are in spirit right now. You never leave spirit; that's your natural state. So death is nothing more than waking up into your true self as a spirit and letting go of the dream you are having in part of your soul of physical reality. That's all it is.

I have one more question concerning you and your people. Do you experience feelings and emotions? Yes, joy, happiness — all of those kinds of positive emotions as you would label them. We simply do not choose to experience things like anger or fear. We understand that they are always available, but it is not simply something that we choose because it doesn't serve us any longer for the lessons that we need to learn, for the processes we need to go through. So you don't have to be incarnated or have a body to experience feelings? We have bodies. We are physical beings. We are not spirits fully. We are quasi-physical. We have the traits of spirit, but you would still perceive us as physical beings.


### Infinite Parallel Realities and Continuous Life Experiences

Hello, Bashar. My question is: I know that I'm shifting through infinite parallel realities in order to create this one continuous life experience as this human. But am I, as all that is, also simultaneously having infinite continuous life experiences as this human? Is it that I am just having the one and I'm shifting through all the possibilities in order to create it, or am I aware of infinite continuous life experiences as this singular human?

The idea is that all that is is obviously aware of everything you're experiencing as an aspect of itself, including all the different parallel realities that you are choosing to go through and navigating through to create your timeline or your life stream. So you're experiencing it as an individual, and simultaneously all that is is experiencing it as you and is aware of everything that you're experiencing as a part of itself. Some of the questions you are asking are superfluous. The first two questions were sufficient to answer what it is you're seeking. Don't overthink it.


### Going Against the Grain in Business and Parenting

Hi Bashar. I'm really, really honored to have the chance to have a conversation with you today. It is our honor as well, and our passion and our pleasure. What would you like to discuss?

There's a few things I have in mind. I've been following your content for quite some time. Just to provide a bit of context, in 2010 I started a design agency specialized in building impact solutions, helping companies define their purpose and then translate that purpose into sustainable and socially impactful business models. It's been quite a learning journey. But now, 14 years into it, I'm realizing that I've been going a lot against the grain.

Well, how can you go more with the flow? Use your creativity and imagination. What would you rather be doing, or how would you rather be doing it? If it is representative of your passion, there is always a way to be doing your passion in the most passionate way. So how could you be doing it differently than you're doing it now? I've started to play around with the idea of instead of trying to change others, to really build the visions myself.

Well, you can't really change others. You can offer them the opportunity to change, but they have to be the ones to make that decision. So if you've been going about it with the idea that you're supposed to be changing them, then dropping that idea would help you flow more, because it's all well and good to share with others what you think might be willing to help them, but what they do with the information is none of your business because you don't know their path. So the idea is to stop focusing on needing to change them and just simply offer them things that you're excited to offer because that's who you are, and let them decide whether or not to take those things.

That makes a lot of sense. Yes, it does. That's why I said it. It removes the weight off your shoulders and the burden that many people on your planet create for themselves of needing others to change. You can't need others to change. You can only offer them the opportunity to change, but you must leave it up to them to decide whether or not to match that frequency, whether or not to incorporate that change in their own lives. It's not your responsibility to make sure that they do. That's not your job. Your job is to be yourself, to give off the gifts that you have to give, to offer them to others as potential things that may assist them, but you absolutely have to leave it up to them to decide to incorporate them. That's none of your business.

Thank you for sharing that. Segueing into responsibility: I've been carrying the weight of responsibility for quite some time. It has guided some of my decisions. I embarked on that impact journey over the years because I wanted my kids to have a planet to enjoy in the future.

But you remember you never change the planet you're on. You change your frequency, and you shift to another version of Earth that is already more representative of the frequency change you made within yourself. So teaching them how to change their frequency, how to navigate through all those different versions of parallel reality Earths by following the formula, is how they will experience the idea of a version of Earth that is more representative of the joy that they create within themselves and the actions that they take that are representative of that joy. But you can't be responsible for others. You can only be responsible to them — to be yourself and be the living example of how they could also choose to be like you, to teach them the consequences of choices in a safe and creative way so they understand how everything is connected, how everything is synchronicity, and how to move through the different parallel versions of Earth by following the formula, by being self-empowered, by knowing that they can attract anything they need in life to fulfill themselves without having to hurt themselves or anyone else in order to do so. And to not be responsible for others, but to be responsible to them by also being living examples of what other people can also, by seeing their example, choose to incorporate within their own lives as well, but to not need them to do so. Remember, you act on your passion for its own sake, not because of what you think it's going to cause or get you. Otherwise, you're making your passion conditional on what other people do.

Thank you for that. That makes a lot of sense. There's always a bit of a discrepancy between my intentions to act on my highest excitement and the short-term conditions I feel I need to go through.

But you see, that's contradictory. If you have conditions that are outside conditions, then you're not acting on your passion, because the true vibration of passion is not reliant on exterior conditions. That's why I'm saying you act on your passion for its own sake, because that's who you are, because you have no other choice, not because of what it's going to get you, not because of how other people are going to react. That's an outside condition, and that dampens the idea of your excitement, of your passion, because now it's not pure.

One last thing, if I may. It's really connected with that same topic, where I feel responsible to... I jumped into that journey, which was really fulfilling, obviously, but to translate these values to my children — I have two kids. If you'd look at my son, you'd see I'm the greatest parent; if you look at my daughter, you might think otherwise. She comes with a bit of anxiety baggage, and I'm really trying really hard to connect with her.

What is her age? 14. Have you had any talks with her about the idea of why she thinks it's important to gauge herself based on what other people think? I've tried to break that shell, but she's really pushing me back.

Why? What does she get out of it? Have you asked her that? I've tried many, many times, but what I get from that, my perception is that she's a bit insecure about what other people would think, so she's pushing her parents, especially her dad, away because it makes her look a bit more immature with her group of friends. That's one of the ideas that has crossed my mind, but honestly, I don't know.

Have you told her that you love her unconditionally no matter what she does on a daily basis? All right, then keep doing so and let her go through her process. Just be there for her when she needs you to be. You don't have to push. You don't have to try and change her. Just understand that she has chosen a path, chosen a journey. She can learn eventually, but you have to let her go through her journey. You have to let her go through her path. That might be the hardest thing.

It should be the easiest thing if you truly trust that she is a strong soul. Don't see her as weak; see her as strong, see her as exploring a certain idea, whether it's positive or negative to you — doesn't matter. She's exploring. Just be there for her. Just tell her, "I'm here for you whatever it is you decide to do, however it is you decide to be. I'm here for you, and I know you have a strong soul, and I trust that you will go through whatever you're going through in a way that will serve you best. But I'm here for you if you need me. If not, then I'm still here for you unconditionally." If you can say that, then perhaps she will lighten up.

I'll try that. Does that serve you at this time? It does. Thank you so much for this great sharing. It is our passion and our pleasure.


### The Seven-Headed Dragon, Raising Food Frequency, Amen, Out of Body Experiences, and Synchronicity

Can you tell me what the seven-headed dragon (aka Lucifer) and the dragon's tail sweeping in the Book of Revelations, and the year of the dragon, and George Saget's star magic, and the dragon's eye while you're meditating when you see one — what do they all have in common? They are archetypal symbols of the journey of humanity in processing the different personality types that are investigating fear-based beliefs, negative beliefs, and transforming them into a positive understanding and creating an evolutionary path for yourself to reclaim your true power.

How can we raise the frequency of our food, like we can do the same thing to water? So when we say grace, should we actually be saying benevolent things about the food? You can, but also remember that when you raise your own frequency, what you will be attracted to eat will be the things of higher frequency automatically. And that's the end of the grace or prayer. Should we or should we not say the word "amen," because there's a reference that it might be praising Amun-Ra, who professed to be God but he's not all that is? It will give whatever meaning you give to it. It actually simply means "so be it." Whatever you decide is the definition that works for you, you can say whatever you wish. It's just a permission slip. Remember that prayer — grace — is a state of appreciation for what you have in the present. That's all it is: a state of appreciation and gratitude for what you are and what you have right here and right now. That's a high vibrational frequency that will attract high vibrational frequency things in physical reality as representations of the frequency you have taken yourself to. So it is an attitude of gratitude and thanks for who you are and what you attract as the lessons you need to learn in life.

Did I have an out-of-body experience when I read a Sylvia Browne book and followed the directions? Yes, you have out-of-body experiences like everyone all the time, especially when you are asleep physically. You don't necessarily remember all of them, but by focusing yourself on certain information that had to do with it, you may have given yourself the opportunity to remember some of the out-of-body experiences that you have had. Coming back, I felt like I was levitating about three feet above my bed and slammed into my bed when I woke up. And then recently I woke up really suddenly because I realized I was in a black space. If that happens again, how can I relax myself and not be so scared and wake myself up? What were you afraid of? I don't know. I just remember it was just black, and then suddenly I woke up, and I knew I was in fear, but then I realized well, all right, there is nothing to be afraid of. You may have been facing the idea of what people on your planet typically call the shadow self — coming to terms with the idea of any fear-based beliefs you may still be holding on to, because those things can come up when you start to increase your frequency. When you start to shift to higher dimensions, you have to let go of those things, and letting go of those remnants of fear-based beliefs that may exist in your physical mind can create the idea of having to face them, having to truly understand why you're holding on to them. So increasing your frequency may put you face to face with beliefs you have to let go of.

I've had some supernatural things happen in my life. Everything is natural, even what you refer to as supernatural. Well, one little one is I saw how tuna cans can stack up on top of each other. I had three of them in my cupboard, and I was about eight feet away from my cupboard. I literally saw the tuna can jump off and land next to it. I was like, what energy did that? You did. There are moments when humans will slip into a higher frequency state and recognize that they are creating literally the projection of their physical reality, and so in that moment of unguarded, you may have become more of your true self and demonstrated to yourself how you actually can manipulate physical reality because it's your projection anyway. So you will give yourself these little markers from time to time to remind you that physical reality is extremely malleable, plastic, and flexible, and that you are creating it moment to moment. If you stop focusing so strongly on the idea of only being in physical reality, only focused on physical reality, you can from time to time see physical reality shift itself in ways that seem quite magical. So that might be one of my gifts that I'm not aware of. It's a gift you all have, but it comes with the awareness that you are creating your physical reality and not being afraid to allow it to be reflective of the true way in which you are actually generating it.

I had a dream that my husband and I were walking into a venue where I was going to perform because I'm a singer, and we're bringing the gear in, and suddenly the place changes into a warehouse, and it's very dark, but the walls are glass and I can look over and see the next building over, and the people are screaming and running out. Yes. And I'm calm. My husband is kind of sketchy, but then he realizes he can be calm because I'm calm. Was that a premonition of an unveiling? It is the recognition of what we have called the splitting prism of different realities that are separated by analogous glass walls where you can see other realities where people may be choosing things that are not your preferred vibration, but they can't affect you because they can't get through the glass wall even though you can see them. So it's a recognition that you are in your own reality, that there is nothing to fear by observing what other people may be choosing in their realities that is not your vibrational preference, because you have to match their frequency in order to experience what they're experiencing.



