---
title: "Interstellar Alliance social experiment Step 2"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2024-03-23
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 1911
tags: 
---


## Step One: Divesting from Conspiracy Theories

We have delivered step one, which involves the idea of divesting yourselves from entertaining conspiracy theories on your planet. Specifically, because the idea of focusing on a lot of conspiracy theories in your society creates and perpetuates and maintains a kind of victimization energy and mentality — that someone is doing something to you, keeping something from you, controlling your lives in certain ways, refraining from including you in certain things, keeping secrets, hiding information, or perpetuating things that are fear-based and/or negative in a variety of ways. This perpetuates the vibrational frequency of victimhood and victimization, and this is one of the main reasons why we encourage you to let go of conspiracy theories, divest yourself of discussing them, and remaining relatively neutral. 

If you are going to be doing any investigation at all in terms of the information that is involved, then we again strongly encourage you to really do your research to figure out what facts are truly facts, and allow yourself not to be swayed simply by the numbers of individuals who may choose to believe in certain theories, because again, no matter how many people may believe certain things, that is not necessarily representative of actual evidence or actual facts. So for now, best to remain neutral, for that will allow you to build upon that neutrality in upcoming steps and allow you to make your frequency more attuned to the Interstellar Alliance and the probability of open contact with ET and extradimensional consciousnesses.

Now step two I remind you will be added to step one, step three will be added to steps one and two. So it's not about just finishing step one and going on to step two, but continuing to do step one while you're doing step two, continuing to do steps one and two while you are doing step three, and so on and so forth throughout all of the transmissions we will deliver to you on a month-to-month basis this year, this being the Countdown to Contact Year 1, that will contain all the steps of the Interstellar Alliance social experiment in its first phase. There will be other phases as well that will continue into Countdown to Contact Year 2 and Year 3, leading up to many changes that will occur somewhere again around the end of your year of 2026 and the beginning of your year of 2027, most probably.

So we invite you once again to participate in these steps. The degree to which you do so is up to you. You do not have to do any of this, and yet the degree to which you are willing to participate will determine the degree to which your frequency will be in alignment and a match for the vibration eventually of the Interstellar Alliance to which we belong, and the vibration of open contact, and will determine the ways in which you will experience the ideas of open contact with various beings in what you call your near future.


## Step Two: Spirituality and Religion

Let us proceed to outline the idea of step two, which involves the concept of spirituality and religions.

Interstellar Alliance Social Experiment Step Two: Have a direct personal spiritual relationship with Source. You are a spirit, a soul having a human experience, rather than a human having a spiritual experience. You do not have a soul; you are a soul. Remain neutral in relationships with religiously oriented people. You may share your beliefs when appropriate, but do not argue with or attempt to change anyone's religious, social, political, or personal beliefs. Respect all religions and positive religious beliefs, and do not discount them. Do not post, promote, nor dismiss any religious beliefs, nor engage in discussions about them in any social media. Do not discuss your interpretations of any religious texts, statements, or beliefs in any discussions. If people inquire about your neutral stance, you may tell them you are engaged in a social experiment, and you may refer them to the website bashar.org where they can learn more, but do not attempt to explain the details yourself. It's best if they gather information from the source.

Engage in meditation or quiet reflection for at least 15 to 30 minutes each day. Listen to calming meditative music for at least 15 to 30 minutes each day. It can be the same 15 to 30 minutes. Remember that prayer is a present state of appreciation and gratitude for what you already have, rather than asking for something you want. Remember that you don't need to ask for help; you simply need to become more aware of the help you're already being given.

The most important thing to understand about step two once again is the concept of not only making sure that you are developing a personal relationship to Source, a personal relationship to your spirit, to your soul, to your higher mind, but the concept of maintaining neutrality with regard to the expressions of religion on your planet. To not engage in discussions about religion with others, but to remain neutral, and to allow yourself not to dismiss any other belief systems that people on your planet may have, to allow them their beliefs while not necessarily engaging with them about those beliefs. And again, should anyone question why you seem to be hesitant to discuss anything that has to do with various religions on your planet, you may simply inform them that you are engaged in a social experiment, but do not take the time to explain to them anything about it except to refer them to the source of this information, where they may find it if they wish also to participate in this social experiment. It is not upon you to have to explain what is going on, how to describe and how to define the Interstellar Alliance social experiment nor any of the steps on this. Also, it is important to remain neutral, and the idea is to let them decide for themselves in their own willingness to investigate and discover what we are sharing with all of you, whether or not they wish to participate in this social experiment, for it is not going to be for everyone. So again, the degree to which anyone participates is completely in your hands, but again we encourage you if you are participating to follow the steps as precisely and closely as possible, so as to create the most likely increase in your frequency, the most harmonious match in your energy and your vibration to the idea of the Interstellar Alliance and open contact with ET and extradimensional beings, as well as strengthening the bond and contact and awareness of communication from your own higher mind and spirit guides. For what we are suggesting in these steps will also create more awareness, more receptivity, more communication and awareness of communication between you and the spirit world, between you and your own soul, your own higher mind.

We will ultimately provide more explanations, more examples, and more graphic downloads for you to understand the nature and structure of your soul and its relation to your physical personality, so that once again you have a clear vision and a clear understanding of what it is you are as a soul. For again, remember as stated here in step two, a soul is not something you have; a soul is what you are. Spirit is your natural state. You are a soul, and you are choosing to have this human experience in the same way a soul may choose to have an ET or extradimensional experience. So you can start thinking of yourselves as not having a soul but being a soul, and that your physical personality is within the soul rather than your soul being within your physical personality.

So as you ponder step two as it has been read, again we encourage you to move forward with the steps while continuing with step one, to build upon each step and add to the overall frequency and vibration of the Interstellar Alliance alignment in this social experiment as we proceed toward the idea of contact.

We thank you for allowing us at this time to share these steps with you, and we remind you just as a practical matter to create a binder, a folder, a journal in which you can contain your downloads of each of these steps, so that they become a handy reference guide for you to remind yourself of what each step is all about, so that you can act on them to whatever degree you are willing to do so with absolute precision, for precision is the key. So create that binder, that folder, that journal with these downloads, and use it in whatever way, shape, or form is advantageous to you to continue to align with these frequencies.



