---
heading: Part 1
title: "You Always Have Free Will"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1984-06-25
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 3
tags: ['synchronicity', 'time']
---


## Synchronicity

Synchronicity is when you find various seemingly unconnected groups exploring:
- similar ideas at the same time
- similar directions
- similar usages of energy
- similar applications of thought
- similar realities being formed. 

This is due to:
- your own sense of timing on your planet
- your own creation
- your own mass creation of your own reality for the entire planet at this time.

It involves many, many ideas which will begin to form into more and more solid versions of reality within a new collective mass reality on your planet.
- This mass has begun to form, is forming, and will continue to form. 

Its formative stage shall continue for 10-15 years.

There will be within this new idea of mass consciousness certain pinnacles, certain plateaus which will represent culminations of specific ideas.

You have within this new mass reality formulated along with your sense of change the idea that certain belief structures, certain attitudes, certain mental states will have their physical counterparts.

As you believe, so will you see its effects, the effects of your own beliefs take place within the physical structure of your earth crystal, the entire earth. 

You as of this moment in your here and now reality have allowed within your new mass consciousness certain ideas of change which will be reflected in the earth: ideas of earthquakes, volcanoes, weather patterns shifting radically, magnetic anomalies, magnetic and electrical fluctuations both within and surrounding the earth crystal.

As you have created them at this time, these fluctuations can and will, though not meaning to frighten you, can and will be responsible for much loss of physical life.

As you attempt to create for yourselves a new mass reality upon your planet Earth, these changes are the reflections of your own sense of uncertainty, your own feelings of new power, your own exercising of your new sense of self, your own realization of your dream reality. Right along with your best hopes, of course, will come your worst fears. All at this point in time will be in a sense realized now.

This is not a future prediction.

There is no such thing as a future prediction because in all reality there is no such thing as the future.

There is also no such thing as the past. All reality is only here and now.

Both your past and your future are created from this here and now moment within no time and within no space. Therefore, ideas of predicting the future stem only from your own inner awareness of certain situations which you realize exist here and now. Your estimation of these belief structures as they are and the strength with which you maintain them will directly reflect the so-called accuracy of a future prediction. 

In other words, should you make a prediction for an individual, group, or mass consciousness, you will be sensing the situations they have created for themselves at that particular here and now time.

You always have free will.

Always you can at any moment you wish choose any future or past or present you so desire. When a prediction is made, you are simply reading those desires, those beliefs which exist at the moment the prediction is made. 

Should the individual involved in the prediction choose to change any or all of the factors perceived by the predictor, then that prediction will not come true.

However, should those situations not change, it will seem as if the predictor was looking into the future when the time wave crosses itself in your reality and makes itself visible as the predicted event.

I had what I thought was a predictive flash about vandalism on my car and I worked very conscientiously to change what I felt at the moment was a very strong prediction flash in my mind.

Sure enough the next day something happened to my car but it was nowhere near what I had seen; it was a very mild incident of a dead battery opposed to terrible vandalism. 



Bashar: Realize it was a very creative way of exercising your own free will on various probable futures you had chosen for yourself.

One of the last large earthquakes which you experienced in California was directed into an area which did very little damage.

One possibility would have been for it to have occurred within your very own environment, your very own city here.

However, you are beginning to realize that such things do not have to be.

It is true there is what you may term momentum, a great deal of momentum within what is formed by mass reality, the shared reality of millions and millions of individual consciousnesses. 

However, you can yet choose to change what you deem your own future.

With regard to these earth changes, they need not be so severe.

They need not claim vast quantities of physical life.

In any event, each and every one of you, having your own individual universe reality creation of your own sense of reality, can for yourselves individually choose not to experience such a probable future.

You can create a reality in which you find yourself at the right place, right time in another location or in the same location but unaffected.

It is your choice, your choice always.

So please choose to avoid the idea of destruction on your planet as necessary for the elevation of your consciousness and your planet's consciousness.

It need not be attained through destructive energies.

There are many, many civilizations which are observing, helping, aiding, guiding Earth.

This does not mean you are low on the scale.

Realize your situation is not hopeless. 

Now, all excepting a few of these civilizations are going to accept your idea of your own reality.

They are going to allow you to experience what you wish to experience for yourselves as a planet.

We will not interfere with your own creations. It is not our responsibility. 

We would never, ever take away your own responsibility for your own creations. 

You are all creators. 

If you can become unified in your consciousness, you can make what I'll term a leap, a jump, a push.

You can step right over all of those other probable realities. You can achieve your higher vibratory state.

If you stop to think about it, you can achieve it in the wink of an eye, in the blink of a moment, in between one second and the next, if you allow, not make, not force, not work at, not try, but allow your belief system to accept that probability as being the most likely, as being the most exciting, as being the most desirable, as being the one you really want.

We are not gods. We are not super beings. 

We are just like you. You are just like us.

Should you choose to elevate yourselves without the probable reality of destructive sequencing? 

You will fool a lot of us. You will have played a joke on a lot of us.

You will have surprised us all. I know you can do it.

I will be the first to cheer you on. But realize we can only aid. 

We can only in a sense guide. You must take the responsibility and the action to create the reality which you deem most likely to succeed upon your planet's future. Now realize that when I say responsibility, I am speaking of choice, unlimited choice, not blame. Allow me to say, too many of the people upon your planet choose to understand responsibility in terms of blame as opposed to terms of choice, free will, unlimited creative potential. 

Realize if you see yourselves as completely responsible for your planet, your environment, your reality, your lives both individually and collectively, totally responsible for everything that happens within them, not to them, but by you within them, you will then be able to step back, view your life from a very relaxed state of total acceptance. "I have created all of this within my life. 

I am completely as a creator responsible for my creations." At that point, you will realize you have more freedom than you ever imagined. Freedom to create any other reality you so choose.

