---
heading: Part 1
title: "An Interview with Bashar"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2006-05-15
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 351
tags: ['']
---



**Interviewer:** Bashar, if you would be so kind, would you describe yourself, your civilization, your connection to Daryl, and the fact that you transmit from your spacecraft? We need to give the viewers a sense of who you are, that you are an extraterrestrial, and how it comes to be interacting with us through Daryl.

**Bashar:** All right, thank you. First of all, we will underscore the idea that no one needs to believe that we are from an extraterrestrial civilization. The point is the information; that is what is most important. And whether the information we deliver in this manner works for you or not, not so much who we are or where it's coming from. However, on that note, we do present ourselves as a member of an extraterrestrial society that in our ancient language are called *Essassani*, which means "living light." Our world is a variation of this ancient term, *Essassani*, place of living light.

And our physiological existence and appearance is such that you would view me as about 5 feet of your height, whitish-gray skin coloration, no hair on the males. Hair on most females tends to be white, can be sometimes a variation thereof. My eyes are larger than human. We are what you would classify in UFO literature as a hybrid being, composed of Earth human genetic stock and genetic stock of those beings you have referred to as Gray.

Our world is not unlike the Earth in many ways. It is also the third planet from its central star, which we in our language call *Sha*, which has a slightly hotter spectrum, slightly toward the greenish hue. Our world does not have the same kind of seasons that your world does. Our axis tilt is not as great. It is generally averaging what you would recognize as humans as a comfortable year-round temperature. There is more water on our planet, slightly higher oxygen content. You would find perhaps at first, if you were to visit our world yourselves, being perhaps a little bit dizzy for a while until you acclimated. Our world is slightly smaller, gravity slightly less, but you could acclimatize to this very easily.

We communicate with many worlds in this manner. We have found over the course of our experience that in many ways it is beneficial to use biological receivers, biological communicators—what you call mediums or channels—who are sensitive to other frequencies, rather than using technological communication for a variety of reasons. First of all, the human body is already perfectly designed, when trained properly, to receive these kinds of telepathic communications. And also because it involves the idea of incarnation: that in order for our civilization, being alien to yours, to have enough understanding of your civilization to communicate with you in a manner that makes sense, we often choose as spirits to have lives in those civilizations with whom we will eventually communicate.

And so the channel that you know as Daryl is actually, from your perspective, my past life, and I am speaking—in linear space-time frame of reference—the channel's future self, but possessing the capability of communicating with my past self, the channel before you. This allows for ease of connection because we are of the same oversoul, the same basic consciousness, just split in different times and different places, different dimensions, in order to perform this task of acting as a bridge, a link to allow communication to occur from one level, one realm, one dimension to another, from ours to yours.

We do this with many different worlds for a variety of reasons. And one of the reasons we are doing it now with your Earth is because there are a great many changes taking place on your planet: changes in consciousness, awareness, understanding, perspective, growth of spirit. This to us is very exciting. We can learn from your experience, the transformations you go through in this time and age in your civilization. The differences that exist in your civilization, the different cultures that you have, are unique in many ways. And we can see through all of you by this interaction all the different ways, many more different ways, that the Infinite has of expressing itself within creation.

We are thus always overjoyed to interact with other beings, other realms, other worlds, other cultures, other civilizations such as yours, and to form a mutually beneficial relationship: to share our perspective of what has worked for us in our growth, in our understanding, and to offer these ideas, these perspectives, these points of view to you as a choice, to decide whether or not what has worked for us can also work for you. It doesn't have to. You do not have to take our word for anything, but simply look at this as the first step toward contact, toward interaction, the laying down of foundations and establishing relationships in a diplomatic fashion, and in a manner that allows you to take our words and our concepts and what we have to say, what we have to share, in any way you wish to. So that by our lack of physical presence at this time, you do not have to believe what we say. You can choose. You can decide to use what works for us or not. And in time, as you change and become more similar to our vibrational frequency, there will be more opportunity to interact directly, concretely, physiologically, as you say. And this may occur within the next few decades of your counting of time. This is primarily why this communication exists and how.


### **Are Extraterrestrials Visiting Earth?**

**Interviewer:** Let me pose one of the most common questions raised by people studying the extraterrestrial phenomenon: Are extraterrestrials really visiting Earth? And if so, why? What do they want? What do you want? Do you visit our planet?

**Bashar:** The answer... the short answer is yes. There are many different cultures observing and visiting your world. However, most of those cultures, the vast majority, have what you would refer to as a kind of hands-off policy, a non-interference directive, so as not to intervene in the overall development of humanity charting its own course, making its own decisions. We will, however, watch and observe very closely. We will sometimes, depending upon the reasons, depending upon what kind of agreements have been created and how it will serve the greater good, sometimes have short, small, isolated interactions with people on your planet in a variety of places and times.

The main reason, again, that we are observing your world is because it is going through a great transition that is instructive, educational, useful to many beings, not just your own civilization. Many other civilizations can learn by observing what you are going through, by seeing the great degree of limitation and negativity that you experience on your planet, and seeing how you transform and overcome these so-called obstacles, change them into opportunities. This is a very powerful act that fascinates us and from which we learn a great deal. At the same time, we offer in exchange the benefit of our own experiences in transforming the obstacles and challenges that we have faced in our civilization's evolution, and offer to you the possibility they may function as solutions for some of the challenges you face on your planet as well. But we allow the timing to be in your hands, so that you determine utterly how quickly we will be capable of truly meeting you face-to-face, based on how quickly you are willing to create certain kinds of changes on your planet that are conducive to the idea of future interaction and contact.

**Interviewer:** Thank you, Bashar.

***

### **Skepticism and the Nature of Channeling**

**Interviewer:** We know that many people, especially some scientists, are skeptical of the channeling phenomenon. So the question is: Why should we believe you are who you say you are? And how do we know the channel isn't just putting on a very, very convincing show?

**Bashar:** All right, thank you. As we said, you do not have to believe we are who we say we are. That isn't the point. This is not being done by any means to prove our existence. So you do not have to believe anything. As far as you are concerned, this could all be happening in another level, another aspect of the channel's own consciousness. That said, the other point is that regardless of what someone may choose to believe is behind the channeling phenomenon, as you say, the channeling state itself is a real state of consciousness. This has even been, as you would say, scientifically tested on your own planet. It is understood that the channeling state is an altered state of consciousness in which the brain waves and the activity neurologically in the body in a variety of ways is changed to accommodate different kinds of energy flow, different kinds of neurological activity to support the state, to allow what happens in that state to happen.

And in this case, the channeling state is being used to access different points of view, different perspectives. Now, you can all do this. You do not need another entity to help you. You do this. You all have this ability. Another entity is not required. However, in that state, it is possible to make a telepathic link to another entity if the brain wave frequencies are synchronized, much in the same way that you tune tuning forks to each other, so that if you start one vibrating, the other will also vibrate in harmony, in resonant synchronization.

But the idea really is that channeling as a state is something you all do from time to time anyway. And anytime you are, shall we say, in a state where you are doing what you love to do, where you are completely absorbed by a thing—when an artist is lost in the work, a singer is lost in the song, and time flies, you say, and you have no sense of the passage of time—that in a sense is a channeling state. It's just allowing you to make an adjustment in the personality construct so that you're allowing a more full representation of the being, of the consciousness, to come through and access what it needs to accommodate the required information.

So whether or not you wish to believe that I personally am an extraterrestrial being speaking through a human being is not the point. And we would never assume to suppose that you should believe that just because we say so. Again, the information is what's important. And if you find that the information that is accessed in this state, by whatever means—whether it be another being, another entity, or simply a portion, an untapped portion of the consciousness of the channel—if that information works in your life, if it creates an effect that is desired in your life when applied, then that's the point of delivering the information, no matter from where or from whom it may come.

**Interviewer:** Thank you very much.

***

### **Interstellar Travel: How Do They Do It?**

**Interviewer:** One of the arguments that skeptics use to dismiss the prospect of extraterrestrial visitation to this planet is the fact that our science doesn't make room for the possibility of traveling the vast distances of space in short periods of time. Our scientists calculate that it would take decades if not centuries to travel between the stars, and therefore no extraterrestrial civilization would ever undertake such a laborious trip. Yes, so if extraterrestrials are visiting Earth, yes, how do they do it without aging or dying over a long period of time during the voyage?

**Bashar:** Thank you. First of all, allow us to make an adjustment in the question itself, because it is actually at this time on your planet more precise, more accurate, to say *some* scientists do not think it is possible to traverse the distances required. Many scientists are beginning to believe it is quite possible through what you call new insights and new breakthroughs in understanding of the science on your planet that you refer to as quantum physics. Many scientists are beginning to realize that the old idea of not being able to traverse the distances really is outmoded, outdated, because there are ways of getting around the physical distances between the stars, and that is what we employ are some of these methods of getting around the physical distance.

Now, yes, it is true that while you are in the physical universe that you recognize, you cannot travel faster than what you call the speed of light, generally speaking. However, traveling faster than the speed of light is not required for going from star to star relatively quickly if you can understand the universe as a set of coordinate vibrations, as a set of resonant frequency patterns. Then you will understand that everything in the universe, everything you call a place, a person, or a thing, or even a time, is represented by a signature frequency. If you can understand how to generate and recreate those signature frequencies and impose those signature frequencies on a spacecraft, then a spacecraft will not need to travel from star to star. It will simply exist at Point A because that's the frequency it exhibits. But then if you impose a stronger, more overwhelming frequency upon it—the frequency that is representative of Point B, no matter how far away Point B may be—then the spacecraft, when it succumbs to the overwhelming frequency imposed upon it, the signature of Point B, will simply cease to exist at Point A and it will in a sense recreate itself and its occupants at Point B almost instantaneously, thus avoiding traveling in 3D space at all.

Now, some of your scientists have proposed other ways of understanding how to shortcut the distances, such as what you label wormholes, bending space and time, and such. And all of these are valid ideas, but the way we do it is as we have just described: through resonant transference and re-identification of location.

**Interviewer:** Thank you, Bashar. You once referred to our mode of space travel as "sliding around on the skin of space." Yes. And you also described technologically how you affect the change in the temporal and spatial signature of your spacecraft. Could you go again into the "sliding around on the skin of space" idea and also describe the technological method you use to translate from one place to the other?

**Bashar:** When we refer to the idea that your technology allows you to slide around on the skin of space, what we are simply referring to is that you are remaining within space-time coordinates, typical 3D or what your scientists may refer to as 4D coordinates (including time, space-time being one concept). Thus, then you are forced, in a sense, to move within the context of the physical laws of 3D space-time. To us, in a sense, that's like sliding around on the surface of an apple, as an example, but not being able to actually go *through* the apple.

Our technique isn't even necessarily going *through* the apple, but it is in understanding that the skin of the apple is a series of coordinates, each coordinate possessing its own resonant frequency signature. In understanding that everything has its own signature—even collectives of things have signatures, similar to the idea of chords of music as opposed to single notes—when you can identify what the chord vibration is of a collective of things, such as a spacecraft and its occupants, when you can take a reading of that vibration, when you can stimulate it to give off its frequency, to reveal its frequency through a variety of energy inputs, then get the readings of what that frequency is, you can then make adjustments in that frequency to represent the idea of a different location, a different coordinate in space-time.

By then reversing the process and imposing upon the craft and its occupants a frequency that, for lack of a better term, overwhelms the frequency that was there before, then you can cause the craft, in a sense, to dissociate from its previous location. It no longer identifies with that locational signature, and it starts identifying with the second locational signature. As soon as it is identified with the second locational signature, it will suddenly exist in that second location because it can no longer exist in the first since it no longer identifies with that frequency.

Now, the way we impose this second frequency upon the craft and the way we dissociate the craft from the first frequency is by creating a kind of neutral field of energy, an amplified bubble, if you will, of electromagnetic energy that you in your language might refer to as a force field, that in some senses has its own reality to it. It's like a neutral zone of existence. It cuts off the craft, in a sense, enough from its old frequency and allows a new frequency to be imposed or instated. So that when the field is then removed, the craft identifies only with the new frequency. The field is given the new frequency, shifted in tone, so to speak. Which is why sometimes, even though for the most part many of our craft are relatively silent, some individuals have actually reported on your planet hearing, when they have a spacecraft encounter, a kind of modulated tone either rising or lowering in pitch, or a series of chords that emanate from the craft. These tones are not a side effect of the craft's movements; they are the cause, in a sense, of the craft's movements, because they are representative of the different frequencies being imposed upon the craft's field to allow it to take up place at different locations and times in the space-time coordinate continuum.

**Interviewer:** Does this make some sense to you?

**Bashar:** Yes, it does. Very much so.

**Interviewer:** Thank you.

***

### **Why Would Advanced Civilizations Be Interested in Earth?**

**Interviewer:** Another argument against the notion of extraterrestrial visitation to this planet is the dismay that extraterrestrials, whom we presume to be technologically advanced, would be interested in a little mud ball of a planet like Earth, or in a civilization such as ours which is technologically and sociologically challenged, for lack of a better word. So why would they... why would you even bother with us?

**Bashar:** Well, first of all, those so-called limitations and challenges are what make your civilization so interesting and so exciting. Anytime a civilization goes through the great challenges that you have imposed upon your civilization in this day and age on your planet, it is worth watching. It is worth learning from. However, the idea also is to understand that we are connected to the universe in a very different way than you are. And to us, you are not isolated. We pick up on consciousness itself and can home in on it very easily. You radiate consciousness throughout creation. In that sense, the kind of experiences you are creating on your planet shine like a beacon, and it is hard to miss. So we pick up on that, respond to it as if it is an invitation given off. And if it is something that we find interesting, you will find then that a lot of beings will gravitate toward that scenario to see what is going on, to learn what it is you are going through, to aid and assist if possible, but also to take that information, that observation, and see how you, as a unique species and unique civilization and several unique cultures, deal with issues that other beings and other civilizations also deal with. But to learn the way in which you uniquely deal with it is also of assistance to other worlds as well. No information is invaluable in that sense. No information is left behind, so to speak. All of it is worthwhile. All of it can be put to use.

And your willingness, as spirits and as beings, to participate in the experience you are having in physical reality is actually a show of strength, strength of spirit, to face the deep challenges that you do. And others are learning from that. So you are giving us a great gift. We do not see you as backwards in that sense, as isolated in that sense. We see you as part of a larger family. And just because a brother, a sister, a cousin may not live in your town, if you know they are going through something important, then you do what you can to help and be of service and be on call. You make contact and are aware and make them aware that you are standing by to help in any way that you can. In that sense, even though the universe and star systems seem to be vastly separated to your civilization, from our point of view, everything exists here and now all at once. And it is no more different to us to home in on you than it is for you to change a channel on your television set.

**Interviewer:** Thank you.

***

### **Earth as an Experiment in Limitation**

**Interviewer:** Can you touch briefly upon the concept of our limitations? I'm understanding that we are somewhat of an experiment, a self-imposed experiment where we are experiencing limitations to a degree that you don't see elsewhere, but we don't see often. Okay. And you once called us "masters of limitation." Can you touch upon that a little bit?

**Bashar:** Yes. There is a heightened degree of the experience of disconnection from Spirit on your planet. A heightened degree of the experience of deep limitation. As a spirit, you are a relatively unlimited being, an unlimited consciousness. But when you impose upon yourself the idea of experiencing physical reality, certain caveats come with that reality that purposely limit you from remembering you are an eternal, infinite, powerful spirit in order for you to have a limited, limiting, challenging experience of physical reality through which you will learn lessons.

All experiences are in a sense self-imposed experiments. We did not say that to make it sound like you are the *only* experiment. Everybody's experience is an experiment of the soul. But you have imposed upon yourselves a great degree of limitation on Earth, a greater degree than we have discovered on most other planets. And that's another thing that makes your civilization so fascinating. We realize that if you can experience a great degree of disconnection from Spirit, if you can forget completely that you are made from the Infinite, and yet still, with that degree of limitation, with that degree of experience of disconnection, still work your way back toward the light from the darkness, then what that says is that you are powerful, strong, and nothing is impossible. And that's a great lesson you are teaching others who might be going through similar experiences but not to the degree that you as humans have chosen to go through. So that they can look at you and say, "Well, if they can do it from that degree of limitation, then ours, being less, is easily accomplished."

**Interviewer:** Thank you very much for that.

***

### **Different Civilizations and Craft Shapes**

**Interviewer:** We're going to retouch on the subject of extraterrestrial visitation. It would appear that we're being visited by a number of extraterrestrial civilizations. If so, how many are there? From where do they originate? Do the different shaped craft represent the different civilizations? And if so, which craft go with the different civilizations? We see reports of triangular-shaped crafts, cigar-shaped crafts, very, very large shaped crafts, and saucer-shaped crafts. Do these go with different civilizations or do they all have kind of the same...?

**Bashar:** It will depend. Sometimes the different shapes of what you call UFOs or crafts are representative of different civilizations. For example, our civilization will more often than not be exhibited as a triangular-shaped craft. And there are variations within this. Other civilizations, such as Pleiadian star system civilizations, will exhibit more of what you humans have come to recognize as a typical saucer-shaped craft, although again there are a number of variants of this design for a variety of reasons, depending upon what the craft needs to do, where it needs to go, how it needs to get there.

Plus, you are also seeing from time to time not only representations of different civilizations but representations of different levels of technology even within one civilization. In the same way that you will have older models and newer models of vehicles, we do not necessarily discontinue using some older models if they serve their purpose. But sometimes you will see newer models come in, but it may still represent the same kind of civilization. Some of what has been labeled the cylindrical or cigar, as you say, shaped ships that are large—this is usually an indication of what you refer to as a mother ship, a city ship that contains smaller ships and thousands, usually, of individual beings. And that can be from different civilizations.

Now, from time to time there will be cross-using, so that different civilizations may share one kind of ship. For if something works, why reinvent it? We have an alliance of worlds that contains hundreds of worlds, so technology is shared among those worlds, including spacecraft. So from time to time it may be different civilizations will be seen over your world using the same kind of spacecraft.

Aside from Essassani, my civilization, and Pleiadian civilizations, there are crafts from civilizations in the star system you know as Sirius. There are some manifestations of craft, or what might be perceived by you as craft but which may be more like energy projections that simply look like craft to your consciousnesses, from consciousness in or associated with the system you call Arcturus. There will be craft from those beings you referred to as Grays. And there are different kinds of Grays, but as we have said, Grays in general are a different story. They are not exactly what you understand to be extraterrestrial civilizations from your realm or dimension. They are more like a parallel dimension, altered, mutated human species from a parallel type of Earth reality that have learned to travel to the stars. And in that sense, that might make them extraterrestrial since they have colonies on different worlds, but they tunnel through from a different dimension using different kinds of craft, some of which again are saucer-like, some of which are egg-shaped, some of which are spherical. And there are different kinds of factions of Gray: some you call Zeta Gray from the Zeta Reticuli star systems, and there are others that come from other places as well, even one that comes from a literal alternate parallel reality Earth.

There are other beings as well. And at the time of this interaction right now, there are 19 civilizations in total that are directly, on some level, interacting and observing your civilizations. At times this number will vary. And we cannot give you necessarily names of all of them that will mean anything to you, nor in some cases are we even allowed to identify them for a variety of reasons, because to identify them might vibrationally change your understanding and your relationship to them. However, the ones we have already given you, we are allowed to do. And there may, over the course of this conversation, be an opportunity to bring up or refer to a couple more. We shall see.

**Interviewer:** All right. Thank you very much.

***

### **Humanoid Forms and Genetic Connections**

**Interviewer:** Some scientists speculate that the intelligent life elsewhere in the universe would probably not be humanoid, and other scientists speculate that the humanoid form is a likely evolutionary development. Are there other Earth-like planets with very human-like forms? I understand that you are humanoid and that the Grays are humanoid and that they have arms, legs, and a head and a torso. I'm thinking in terms of a more human-looking physical body. Are there other Earth-like planets with that type of human-type inhabitant? Are they... if so, how far away is that star? Are we aware of that star? And if so, which one is it? And finally, are they aware of us?

**Bashar:** The answer to all of those questions is yes. And we will illuminate. First of all, understand: in any given region of space, when that region may coalesce into a variety of star systems, those star systems in any given cluster of star systems will contain very similar elements and very similar ratios of those elements. And in some senses, of course varying from star to star, may also contain very similar conditions for life. This may give rise to certain morphogenetic patterns that will be similar in any given cluster. So the humanoid form is relatively common within certain regions of space and completely uncommon or non-existent in other regions of space, depending upon the dispersal of the original ratios of chemicals and morphogenetic vibrational patterns that determined exactly how life would form in those regions once star systems coalesced.

Also, you must take into consideration that your civilization is relatively young. And as such, the idea that there are other humanoid beings in nearby star systems has more to do with the fact that you are actually genetically connected to them. Because there has been injections of extraterrestrial genetic material into the indigenous life forms that existed on Earth in order to bring about the idea of a species that would be similar to the idea of the other, quote-unquote, humanoid forms. In that sense, you could actually more precisely say you are *alienoid*, because they came first, and by injecting their DNA, pushed your evolution more in their direction, rather than you being human first and them just happening to look like you. So that you call them humanoid; you actually look more like them. Now, we are more created from you, and in that sense we are humanoid because we are, as we said, genetically directly linked to humans of Earth and the species you know as Gray, which is actually another type of human from another dimension.

So all of the humanoid descriptions, just to use that term, that have been given of UFO occupants by people, by witnesses on your planet—they are more often than not seeing literal genetic cousins, relatives, that are all intermixed from a variety of civilizations that have been interacting with Earth for thousands of years, and the genetic offshoots that have come up from those interactions. Now, there are regions of space and there are civilizations within our association of worlds that are not human at all, not whatsoever.

**Interviewer:** Thank you very much.

***

### **Nuclear Weapons and Interdimensional Effects**

**Interviewer:** This is a related subject. The extraterrestrial civilizations monitoring our planet's handling of nuclear weapons and what happens to the fabric of space-time if nuclear weapons of large yield are detonated? In some senses it is warped, in some senses it is penetrated, dissolved, barriers between dimensions break down?

**Bashar:** The idea of large release of energy, nuclear or otherwise—but nuclear is sufficient to do it—large releases of energy of that nature will tend to interpenetrate different dimensions and affect realities in different spectral ranges. This arena of your nuclear weaponry is just about the only area in which the civilizations observing Earth will actually directly intervene, depending upon the situation, because of the fact that it doesn't just affect you. When you release the energy from those nuclear weapons, it affects others not of your world. So there have been given, from time to time, in no uncertain terms, clear demonstrations of craft hovering over your nuclear missile sites and electromagnetically erasing and changing launch codes to make the point that, while on one hand minor, isolated nuclear incidents might be allowed to allow you to work out your own challenges, large-scale global war with nuclear weapons will not be allowed because it would affect more than your own world. And this has been demonstrated to your government and your military many times in many different countries, where our craft have prevented those delivery systems from working at all and sending a message that we can do so anytime we wish.

**Interviewer:** Thank you. What happens to your realm and other realms when such a large release of energy happens? How does it actually affect you and the other realms?

**Bashar:** It will depend upon the vibrational frequency of that realm as to how it is affected. But one way might be that the idea of what we described earlier as navigation in space, of charting the different vibrational locational coordinates of space, can be completely disrupted. So that suddenly, let us say, a craft, for example, were in a certain region of space that was suddenly affected by a release of energy that leaks through from another dimension of space—that craft may suddenly be cut off from having any ability to return to where it came from by suddenly finding that all the coordinates, all the vibrational coordinates around it, have shifted, have changed in a way that strands it, isolates it. Do you follow me?

**Interviewer:** I do indeed. Thank you very much.

**Bashar:** That's just one example.

**Interviewer:** Okay. That's a very interesting example.

***

### **Alien Abductions: Purpose and Nature**

**Interviewer:** I would now like to address the subject of alien abductions. All right. A growing number of people are reporting what has become known as alien abductions: the apparent taking of humans apparently against their will onto an extraterrestrial craft for tissue sampling, experimentation, and in some cases impregnation. Yes. This raises a great many questions. Is this really happening? Because some people have doubted this. What is the purpose of it? What exactly are they examining or measuring or extracting? The fact that they seem to do it against our will suggests that they are cruel and evil. And in particular, a species we call the negative Grays seem to be mainly responsible for this. Are they truly negative or evil? And if so, what is their agenda?

**Bashar:** Thank you. Yes, as you have already pointed out, first of all, this is being done. It does exist. It is being done by certain factions of the beings you refer to as Grays, whom we have already pointed out are not exactly what you would call an extraterrestrial species. They are a parallel reality type of human that have, through their own experiences, unwittingly caused great damage to their home world in what you would call the past. And in causing this damage, were forced to mutate themselves to adapt. And in mutating themselves to adapt to the changes that took place upon their planet, which were detrimental so they could survive it as a species, they found that they eventually lost the ability to procreate.

In recognizing that they no longer had the ability to procreate, they would then eventually die out, and thus realized the only way to perpetuate their civilization would be to find a fresh infusion of human DNA and create a hybrid race that would allow their civilization, in some fashion at least, to continue. Knowing that they were, in their own reality, the only humans that existed, they realized that the only place to get true, identical human DNA that would make their genetic experiments of hybridization viable would be from a parallel reality of human species. Thus, then, they tunnel into, in a sense, with their heightened technology, different parallel realities such as your own, where they find humans that are still human, pre-mutated from their point of view. And thus can, by extracting genetic samples and investigating family lines and finding the strongest lines for certain traits over time, this large genetic agenda would allow them to create a hybrid species that would allow their race to perpetuate itself. And we are one of the offshoots of that experimentation.

Now, the idea that they seem to be doing this against the will, in some senses, is so. But it is more an issue of humans simply not being consciously aware of the fact that they have, on a spirit level, made an agreement for this to occur to aid and assist this civilization in perpetuating itself. This does not excuse the idea of what might be perceived as very curt or uncaring behavior on their part. Many of them also lost the ability to emotionally relate to humans as they once were. And thus, then, it is not so much that they are deliberately malicious or evil, but simply, in that sense, incapable of really identifying or caring or even understanding what humans go through in these experiences you call abduction. It is similar, from their point of view, to the idea that you as humans will often take an animal to the veterinarian for checkups and experiments to ensure their health, and the animal may be terrified and not understand what is going on and have no comprehension that this is for their physical benefit. Yet you know that you are well-intentioned and attempting to help them. Again, from the Gray's point of view, their mentality, their emotionality after the mutation has become so different, they can really in many cases no longer identify with human emotionality, human understanding, human perspective. And thus, then, they do what they believe needs to be done, at the same time not really understanding what they are putting you through in doing it.

However, in recent times, because this agenda has been going on for such a long time, they have come over time to learn more of what it is you experience. And some of their agenda has in fact changed over the years to allow the experience, while still from their point of view necessary, to become at least somewhat more tolerable or understandable to the humans that participate in it. And as humans develop more of their own spiritual and telepathic awareness, they can then themselves also become more consciously able to participate and understand in what is going on. And also, as they develop their abilities, humans then also become capable of determining what will be done and what won't be done, what kind of methodologies and ideas in fulfilling this agenda can be done, what kind of assistance can be given or is from a human willing to be given. It is a lesson in both directions that humans and Grays are learning together, even though there may be confusion in the midst of the unfoldment of this agenda for a variety of reasons. Does that answer your question?

**Interviewer:** Very much so. Thank you very much.

**Bashar:** As we've observed... and no, they are not part of our alliance.

**Interviewer:** Okay. Thank you for clarifying that.

***

### **Managing the Abduction Experience**

**Interviewer:** As we've already observed, most abductees find their abduction experiences painful and terrifying. Can anything be done to make the abduction experience less uncomfortable or less painful, or to get the Grays to stop the abduction, stop the experiment, or to anesthetize the pain? And in general, is it possible to prevent an abduction or to stop the abduction pattern that has taken place, say, over a portion of a lifetime?

**Bashar:** It is possible to alter the agenda in a variety of ways, depending upon the level of development of the human participating in it and the level of awareness they are willing to have. Part of the difficulty for humans is that when they come face to face with beings from other dimensions, their own energy is imposed upon by the frequency of the other dimension, and it causes a phenomenology to happen in the human that forces different kinds and different areas and different parts of their psyche into proximity to each other that may have compartmentalized and are not yet totally willing or ready to integrate within their system, within their personality. Being forced to face portions of their own consciousness can be experienced as a very fearful thing. And much of the fear and pain that humans actually experience in many of the abduction scenarios is actually fear of the portions of their own consciousness that they encounter by being exposed to the consciousness and the different vibration of another dimensional being.

So this can be altered with more awareness, more integration on the part of the human. And in developing more awareness and more integration, then the human also has more commandment over what they are creating in their reality and can determine how or even if those abduction scenarios will continue and in what way. That's what humans can do from their side.

Okay. At one point in time you talked about envisioning a glowing ball of blue light around the body during an abduction experience. This is to aid and assist in smoothing out the transition from one dimension to another and to integrate the portions of the consciousness that may be disrupting the psyche and causing fear. Many abductions take place actually in another dimension. The human is shifted from one reality to another, and this is the cause sometimes of the paralysis that humans will feel during an abduction. We understand there is also such a thing as sleep paralysis, but that is not what we are talking about now. Many of the people that experience paralysis are actually experiencing the side effect of being shifted from one dimension to another, where you no longer are in exactly the same reality that you used to and no longer can understand why your body will not respond to your consciousness in the same way that it did, because your consciousness is no longer actually focused in the same reality that it was in to be able to control your body in the way that it used to.

At the same time, sometimes this paralysis as a field is imposed upon the human to allow them to be shifted from one dimension to another precisely because if a human is shifted without the imposition of that field to ensure that they will wind up in the dimension that the Gray want them to, then the human's mind is capable of taking them to other dimensions that are not the end result of where the Grays wish to take them. And so the paralysis, in a sense, is a field that imposes upon the human the inability to go to other dimensions other than the one the Grays are shifting them to.

I see. But the energy that we described in that meditation, the blue electromagnetic light, the blue electromagnetic bubble, is for the purpose of smoothing that transition out and giving more autonomous power and ability to the human in determining that they themselves can also consciously intend the shift in a way that is on their terms.

**Interviewer:** So does this bubble of light also communicate to the Gray to some degree? And if so, what does it communicate?

**Bashar:** It communicates that the human is willing to participate, but only if there is a more equal kind of participation taking place; that the human is willing to help, willing to shift, but only if the human is given an opportunity to at the same time come to terms in its own way with what is going on. And so the Grays have begun to pay attention to this and are beginning to respect this more and more.

**Interviewer:** I see. Thank you.

***

### **Passing Through Solid Matter**

**Interviewer:** Some abductees report being abducted through the use of a beam of light or energy that seems to have the capability of transporting the human right through solid matter, a solid wall. Yes. Is this really what's happening? And if so, how is it made possible?

**Bashar:** Similar to what I have just said, the human is actually being shifted interdimensionally. And when you are phased in a certain way, then what appears to be a solid wall is no longer actually solid because it's no longer in the same dimension. It's like a shadow at that point. And so you can appear to pass right through it because, from the vibrational perspective you have been shifted to, it doesn't actually exist in that dimension in a solid way.

**Interviewer:** Are we talking about the physical bodies of the humans that are being abducted? Are we talking about just the consciousness? Both or either?

**Bashar:** So the human, the actual physical body, can be, yes, shifted dimensionally and then transported through the walls of the old dimension, if you will. Yes.

**Interviewer:** I see. Because the old dimension is no longer what is paramount to the physical body. It is no longer what is real. It becomes more like the ghost world, and the ghost world becomes more the solid.

**Bashar:** Okay.

**Interviewer:** And how is this shift in dimensional reality accomplished technologically?

**Bashar:** In a variety of ways. Light has a lot to do with it. Light itself is a basic structure of physical existence, what you call electromagnetic energy. And in understanding its relationship to the basic structure of physical existence, you can learn, and other civilizations have learned, how to manipulate it in certain ways so that it dissolves the basic structure of physical reality when and where it is appropriately applied. Okay. It's like saying that you recognize the world is made of ice, but you also recognize that ice is a certain state of being vibrationally. The molecules are moving very slowly; they are going more toward a state of stasis. But by applying energy to it in a certain way, you speed up that molecular action, you dissolve the ice, turn it into water, and then maybe even into steam. You change its state of being.

Light, because everything is actually made of it—made of electromagnetic energy, so to speak—can be altered in terms of its natural state in a variety of ways. And by altering light and imposing that altered light on other things in physical reality, those other things can take on the characteristic of the light that you are imposing on it. Again, it is similar to what we do to our spacecraft by imposing a different signature frequency on it so that it ceases to exist in one location and starts existing in another. It's like dissociating the human body with a certain frequency of light from its own natural reality of physicalness and allowing it to take on other qualities that are more conducive or more reflective of the dimension into which it is being shifted.

This is done. This manipulation of light is done through consciousness and also various forms of technology that involve attributes of the different interactions of electromagnetic fields, gravity fields. These titles, these labels, are not exactly accurate, but there may not be any other way of exactly describing them in your language.

One moment. There are certain pulses, certain cords of energy that are designed to cause this dissociation. When a device is created that you would call a wave guide, and this wave guide structurally is representative proportionately of the frequency of electromagnetic dissociation, then that wave guide can be used to project electromagnetic energy that is capable of dissociating other objects from their innate reality. Does that make sense to you?

**Interviewer:** Yes, it does. And it is these kinds of devices that are utilized. Very interesting. Thank you very much.

***

### **Implants**

**Interviewer:** Yes. Some abductees report small objects implanted into their bodies during their experiences, and the objects are often found and sometimes removed by medical personnel. Yes. The questions that are always asked are: Are these objects of extraterrestrial origin? What is their purpose and function? And what are they made of?

**Bashar:** All right. Well, obviously not every single object embedded in a human body is of what you call extraterrestrial origin. But yes, there are implants that are. And you will find that they are more often than not utilized as, shall we say, tracking and information gathering, or energy gathering or energy monitoring devices, to keep track and to monitor the energy of individuals who may be part of the agenda of the genetic hybridization program. And very often these implants are wrapped in a small amount of the human's own tissue to prevent rejection.

These implants, as you call them, are very often composed almost entirely of silicon with a few other elements such as iridium, chromium, magnesium, other kinds of elements as may be required. Now, they themselves are simply pitched in their construction to certain frequencies, certain resonant frequencies, that will be able to register them and get a feedback pulse from them that will give the beings doing the monitoring all the information they need. As such, the technology in these things is on what you would call a molecular level, but it is only by the arrangement of certain elements that create certain reflective resonant electromagnetic fields that the information is obtained.

**Interviewer:** So are you saying that, for instance, energy would be beamed toward one of these things and then it would reflect back the information?

**Bashar:** Yes. The information, in that sense, is not coming from the device directly, or it is not initiating in the device. The device is reflecting the correct information back, in the same way that you might shine a laser light on something and in the reflection of the laser light be told perhaps certain information about the object, but it's not the object itself that's transmitting that information.

**Interviewer:** I understand. But the design of the implants determines how the information is fed back. But there is an initiating pulse first before information comes back?

**Bashar:** Certainly.

**Interviewer:** And that would cause us not to be able to understand these objects because they are not actually active in that sense? Correct?

**Bashar:** They are passive. And thus, there is really nothing to glean from them by examining them too much other than the fact that they do exhibit certain characteristics that are, in your terms, unusual. Many of these implants will exhibit, even in their passive state, electromagnetic fields that are quite large for the size of such an object. Some of them will also fluoresce in various ways that are unusual, again because of their chemical composition. But these are all passive effects.

**Interviewer:** Thank you very much.

***

### **Cattle Mutilations**

**Interviewer:** Yes. I believe the cattle mutilations phenomenon could also be associated to some degree with the alien abduction scenario.

**Bashar:** Yes. And one of the things that is debated often on this planet is whether these cattle mutilations are actually effects of some operation of extraterrestrials on these cattle, and if the extraterrestrials are doing it, why are they doing it?

All right. Well, again, this was an early part of the program of the Gray's agenda to understand genetic material on your planet and also to create, from a source on your planet, a source of nutrients that could be fed to the hybrids at an early stage of development. Even your own scientists at this time on your planet are beginning to realize that bovine chemistry is actually not that dissimilar from human chemistry where the blood is concerned. And in fact, many of your own doctors and medical practitioners have even suggested a human blood substitute made from bovine blood. The Grays understood this chemistry long ago and experimented with it to provide a source of nutrient for the growth of the hybrid fetus in stasis. Early cattle mutilations were of this nature.

Now, after a time, some members of your own government perpetuated some of these cattle mutilations to confuse the issue about what was going on, to divert suspicion from the existence of the Grays, so that people would blame the government and not the Grays, in that sense diverting attention from the existence of these beings. Do you follow me?

**Interviewer:** I do. And why would our government want to divert attention from the existence of the Grays?

**Bashar:** For a variety of reasons. One, to avoid panic. Because especially in the early days for your civilization and your culture, to suddenly realize that, in a sense, beings can come and go at will, take your genetic material at will, with your government having absolutely no power to stop them whatsoever, would have caused widespread panic and cultural breakdown, at least so the government thought. And so it would have been okay. Even today, there are many individuals in many of your social circles and religious circles and political circles and economic circles who would view the idea of contact between your civilization and other civilizations as at the very least unsettling to the different systems that exist in your society, if not outright disturbing, if not outright destructive. Still today, there are many who feel that way.

**Interviewer:** Thank you very much.

***

### **The Roswell Incident**

**Interviewer:** Okay. Let's address the question of Roswell, New Mexico. It has been long thought that an extraterrestrial spacecraft crashed in Roswell in 1947 and that our government covered it up. More recently, the government admitted that there was a cover-up, but it wasn't of an extraterrestrial spacecraft; it was of a secret US operation called Project Mogul, designed to detect Soviet nuclear tests by flying sensitive microphones on high-altitude balloons. And they're saying that the debris found in Roswell in 1947 was the debris from one of these balloons. Did an extraterrestrial craft really crash at Roswell in 1947, or was it one of our balloons?

**Bashar:** It was an extraterrestrial craft.

**Interviewer:** Aha. Anything else that is said other than that is a part of what you would call a cover-up?

**Bashar:** Aha.

**Interviewer:** So the more recent government revelation that this was debris from one of these balloons is a further cover-up, a continuation of the agenda to make sure that that information of extraterrestrial existence is integrated into your society in a controlled fashion according to what those people running that program believe is appropriate?

**Bashar:** Okay.

**Interviewer:** Thank you. What civilization was it from? And what caused the crash? Uh, a couple more questions: Is some of our Earth technology reverse-engineered from that crash? And what do humans need to understand in order to travel between the stars with the same ease as our extraterrestrial visitors?

**Bashar:** All right. The beings in that initial crash, although there have been others, were hybrid beings similar to the beings in our civilization, but not from it. The crash, in that sense, was actually caused by a lightning strike hitting the craft and disrupting the drive mechanism. Bodies were recovered. One was still alive and eventually died.

**Interviewer:** How long did he stay alive?

**Bashar:** A few years.

Now, humans have attempted to reverse-engineer and have succeeded to a certain degree the technology of that and other crafts that have been recovered. There are a few things that have entered your society that are connected to the reverse engineering of extraterrestrial technology, but not as much as you might think. Because much of the technology that the scientists who recovered the craft discovered was way beyond their understanding, and to some degree still is today, because they have not yet completely understood. And this is the answer to your final question of how to move through space in the way we do: they have not yet completely understood the connection between how we use consciousness in our technology.

The ships are aware. They are conscious beings of a sort and are directly connected to the consciousness of the so-called occupants and pilots of the craft. Aside from just the technology required to create the resonance identification and relocation experience, this technology is guided most efficiently through consciousness itself. So when your scientists begin to see more of a connection between technology and consciousness, and when they truly create what you would call an artificially intelligent and self-aware computer, then you will be on the verge of truly copying or mirroring what you have begun to discover in the retrieval of those crafts.

So when they are looking at one of these crafts and not seeing all the buttons and levers and dials that they would expect in an Earth craft, it's because they are failing to recognize that so much of that control is accomplished through consciousness and some kind of a telepathic link with the craft, as opposed to this physical link. Now, they have begun to suspect that for some time, and some of that suspicion is what has resulted in some of, shall we say, the electroencephalographic direction of weaponry in some of your fighter aircraft, where you can place electrodes on the human head and in a helmet that follow the thoughts and obey the thoughts of the pilot with regard to directing the craft, directing the sensors, directing the weaponry. Some of that is a direct representation, as best as your technology can recreate, of the idea they finally did realize was happening in the ships. But it is, in degree, far down the scale of the kind of telepathic connection we actually have with our ships.

**Interviewer:** I understand.

***

### **Mars and Ancient History**

**Interviewer:** Let's move to a different subject, a short one though. Mars. Yes. Was Mars once moist and alive, as our probes are beginning to suggest? If so, what caused it to become arid? And what happened to the Earth probes sent to Mars that seem to have disappeared without a trace?

**Bashar:** Yes. Mars, as you call it, was a habitable planet at one time, as you would understand habitable, and was inhabited at one time. There was a close pass by what you would call an asteroid that disrupted the climate and electromagnetic field of the planet to such a degree as to cause the dissipation of its atmosphere, the dissipation of its electromagnetic field, and the evaporation of much of its water, although much of it also remains locked in the crust.

**Interviewer:** How long ago was this that this occurred?

**Bashar:** Millions of years, but not as long ago as your scientists might think. Maybe a few dozens of millions, not even. Okay. Now, incarnation. Then the beings that used to incarnate on Mars began to incarnate on Earth as it became more habitable for that kind of incarnation.

**Interviewer:** What did they incarnate as? Humans or some other life form?

**Bashar:** It began as the hominid species, in that sense. But then, when extraterrestrial genetic material was infused into the indigenous, naturally evolved hominid species, there was then created the human-like vessel that became more conducive to the kind of incarnations your spirits were used to. And thus, then, incarnations began, shall we say, in earnest at that time, a few million years ago.

**Interviewer:** From Mars? Yes. Okay.

**Bashar:** That is the succession, in a sense, of incarnational experience from what you call Maldek, which is the planet that was destroyed in between what you call Mars and Jupiter, to Mars, to Earth. That is the path of incarnational progression in this solar system of yours.

**Interviewer:** So you're referring to what we call the asteroid belt as the debris from the destruction of Maldek?

**Bashar:** Yes. And the beings that were that inhabited Maldek migrated, if you will, to Mars incarnation. And then when that atmosphere and situation was destroyed, they migrated again, incarnated to Earth. Yes.

**Interviewer:** And the irony for those that incarnated on Mars is that the asteroid that made it impossible to inhabit came from the debris of Maldek, the world they had inhabited before. What caused the destruction of Maldek?

**Bashar:** Passage too close to another body that entered the system. Okay. It wasn't a result of their technological malfeasance?

**Interviewer:** No.

**Bashar:** Okay. Thank you.

***

### **SETI and Communication Methods**

**Interviewer:** Let's address the subject of SETI, Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence. Yes. We have several programs dedicated to detecting radio signals from extraterrestrial civilizations. Yes. But so far we've detected no such signals that we can rely upon as truly being of extraterrestrial origin. Correct?

**Bashar:** Your world exists at this point in time in a relative radio desert.

**Interviewer:** And why is that?

**Bashar:** Because any of the civilizations around you that did at one time create radio technology have long since stopped using it, and the radio waves emanating from those civilizations have long since passed by your ability to perceive them, long since passed your Earth, your solar system. Other civilizations that may be just beginning to use radio technology are so far away that their signals haven't reached you yet, and may not, as we read the general energy around your planet, for perhaps at least 30 to 50 years of your counting. So you are right now in a little bit of a radio desert.

There is the possibility of one particular radio source being picked up within the next decade or two on your planet. But the difficulty in that is that the direction that particular radio source is coming from is often interrupted by a stellar phenomenon between that source and your planet. I see. And thus, then, it will require that that phenomenon in some sense be disrupted or cease so that the radio signal can momentarily get through. And it may do that within the next 10 or 20 of your years. But aside from that one single source, you will find that it is probably unlikely you will ever pick up a radio source within the next 50 of your years, because they simply aren't either arriving on your planet yet or have long since passed you by, since civilizations tend to go to other forms of communication beyond radio relatively rapidly in their technological evolution.

**Interviewer:** So then, when communicating between craft—well, what we would consider extraterrestrial craft—are you suggesting that you are not using radio signals, therefore we would not be able to detect them? You're using some other technology? Correct? Can you somehow describe...?

**Bashar:** Well, it's telepathic resonance. Okay. And even if we were to use some other kind of technology between crafts, it would probably most likely be what you would call tight-beam communication, which would not radiate out in all directions to be picked up by other receivers. That would be more like a laser beam. Correct?

**Interviewer:** Yes.

**Bashar:** But it is, from our point of view, in our civilization and many of the civilizations we interact with, mostly done through telepathic resonance. Now, this does not mean the beings have to be naturally telepathic. There are actually, again, resonant technologies that allow telepathy to be guided and amplified in much the same way as we talked about the projection of the beam earlier, through wave guides that are keyed to certain vibrational resonances, certain proportions that allow the amplification, magnification, and projection of telepathic resonance to occur between different beings and different civilizations.

I see. Again, nothing is traveling or propagating as a wave through space. It is simply that the message is created at the source and received at the other end, but there is no propagation of waves in between.

**Interviewer:** I understand. It would be somewhat similar to the channeling phenomenon, yes, the way it's communicated between yourself and the channel. And in quantum physics terms, takes advantage of what your scientists generally refer to as entanglement, wherein two things are already... seem to be connected. What appear to be two things are actually one thing, and if you manipulate any portion of that, then the other portion is manipulated automatically because it's already one thing.

**Bashar:** I understand. We use the term non-locality also to describe this.

**Interviewer:** Yes. Thank you. Non-local entanglement, so to speak.

**Bashar:** We simply call it resonance identification.

**Interviewer:** I think I'll start calling it that myself. All right.

***

### **Ancient Visitation and Biblical Events**

**Interviewer:** Let's touch on ancient extraterrestrial visitation to this planet. Yes. There are paintings on cave walls that seem to depict flying craft, and descriptions in the Bible of what suggests flying craft. And in 1897, a 300-foot-long air machine was reported doing cattle mutilations. So it would seem that Earth has been visited for a great many years.

**Bashar:** Oh, yes. Millennia at least.

**Interviewer:** Millions, actually?

**Bashar:** Millions of years, yes.

**Interviewer:** So were the flying machines described in the Bible of extraterrestrial origin?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Interviewer:** Let me ask a few more questions here. Was Moses led by an extraterrestrial craft? Did an extraterrestrial craft part the Red Sea? Was the manna that fell to the Israelites dropped by an extraterrestrial craft? And was the "wheel within a wheel" that was described by Ezekiel an extraterrestrial craft?

**Bashar:** Yes, yes, yes, and yes. Ah, is the short answer.

**Interviewer:** So did the extraterrestrials actually interact with humans during those periods more than they do today?

**Bashar:** Uh-huh. Being different than the extraterrestrials interacting and observing today, being what you call more the progenitors, or what has been referred to as Anunnaki, those that gave of their genetic material to create the humanoids on Earth to begin with. Ah. In that sense, your true forefathers and for-mothers. They had a different bond with humans in that sense and could interact in a different way than we can interact with you at this point in your evolution.

**Interviewer:** How is that bond different and why could they interact?

**Bashar:** Because in that sense you were literally their children at that time. You are not, in that sense, our children per se. We do not have the same kind of relationship with you and are coming into interaction with you later on in your evolutionary period, when it is obviously important to have more of a hands-off policy to allow you to make your own choices and evolve without absolute interference. And in certain respects, since you are hybrids based on human DNA, yes, you are our children in that some sense.

**Interviewer:** Yes. I'm wondering... I mean, for planet Earth now, there's the "freakout factor," where humans might freak out if they saw extraterrestrials, and obviously they do in some cases, and our government fears that. Yes. Was this freakout factor really not part of the ancient civilizations with whom the Anunnaki interacted?

**Bashar:** It depends on how far back you go. Early on, no, not at all. They were used to seeing these beings all the time. And again, remember that in that sense, being offshoots of their genetic material, the Anunnaki looked very much like you, or you looked very much like them. There were some differences, but not so much that you would, as you say in your language, freak out. Mhm. They are what is referred to, however, in some of your ancient literature as the "Giants of those days," men of renown. So they looked like humans but a whole lot bigger. Somewhat bigger.

**Interviewer:** Okay. I'm trying to get a sense of the size. Are we talking about 7-8 ft?

**Bashar:** Was not uncommon. Okay. So basketball player type size would be about right, as we understand that term. Yes. Although also to some degree a little bit larger in stature as well.

**Interviewer:** Okay. Broader?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Interviewer:** Okay. And what gave rise to the blue color of their skin?

**Bashar:** Simply the idea of some addition in their blood matrix of copper and other elements.

**Interviewer:** Okay. So it would be an oxidation of copper?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Interviewer:** Okay. Very good. Did extraterrestrials help humans build the pyramids?

**Bashar:** From certain extraterrestrial sources came information, engineering, and mathematical information that was ultimately applied by those who were taught in what you call the mystery schools, which also descended from extraterrestrial practice and maintained the knowledge of how to do such things. The earliest pyramids, then, in that sense, are the ones that are actually the most accomplished. And in that sense, the technology being forgotten after time, you will see a decline in the precision of those structures thereafter. Being that the ones that are the most pristine and precise mathematically and engineering-wise are actually the oldest, even though many of your scientists don't think they are. Many of your scientists think that the best ones are the latest. The best ones are actually the earliest.

**Interviewer:** Now, when you refer to the technology that was used to build these pyramids, are you talking about a mechanical technology of moving or...?

**Bashar:** We're talking about variations of things. Some of it was mechanical technology, some of it was vibratory technology, some of it was sonic, in that sense. Some of it was also a chemical understanding.

**Interviewer:** Did... was any of this used to levitate these stones in the ancient ones?

**Bashar:** Yes. But not in most of the ones that exist on your planet that are the later pyramids. So the later pyramids were actually built by blood and sweat and mechanical processes. Yes. And some of the remnants of knowledge of mostly the mechanical process, as opposed to any other.

**Interviewer:** Oh, I see. So they kind of borrowed the mechanical aspect of the earlier ones and built pyramids, but the earlier ones also had other techniques applied for purposes that would actually levitate the stones and...

**Bashar:** Okay. And very carefully place them into position. Yes. A combination of things was used in the earliest ones. But as different technologies were forgotten over time, only the more crude engineering mechanical applications were retained, and in even those were lost.

**Interviewer:** I see.

***

### **Crop Circles**

**Interviewer:** Okay. We have one final topic, and this is a short one. Crop circles. Yes. Are they created by extraterrestrials? What is their purpose? In 1975, 47 crop circles were found in a field where a cattle mutilation was found. What was the connection between the two phenomena?

**Bashar:** Extraterrestrials are involved to some degree with the creation of some of what you call crop circles. Consciousness is primarily involved, and that being the extension of a collective aspect of your own consciousness merging with other dimensional beings' consciousness, such as our own as well. It's a collective event, although there may be, shall we say, from crop circle to crop circle, a greater or lesser degree of involvement of different beings at different times for various reasons.

Energy manipulation, again, vibrational, resonant, electromagnetic energy manipulation, is the actual mechanism used and manipulated by the blending and merging and directing of collective consciousness. It is a type of language, a type of symbolism, a type of speaking to oneself in dreams to wake up from the dreams you have been having and move into other realms of awareness and perceptibility.

The cattle mutilations that may have occurred in the one that you have mentioned, in a sense, is an offshoot of the fact that certain areas are conducive electromagnetically to certain phenomenology happening more easily. And it may be conducive to more than one thing happening in that area. So an area that might be very good for producing crop circles electromagnetically might also be very good for certain kinds of technological craft to come through into your dimension for other reasons and other agendas. In that sense, what you're simply seeing are overlapping agendas. They're not really connected except through the electromagnetic phenomenology that makes that area a particularly good one to do both of those things in.

**Interviewer:** In other words, kind of the door was open and so a lot of different things came in?

**Bashar:** Yes.

