---
heading: Part 5 of Vortex Vibrations
title: "Sacred Circuit"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2009-09-19
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 515
tags: ['Sacred Circuit']
---


## Sacred Circuit

**Questioner 14:** I had an experience with the sacred circuit. Yes. And I wanted to find out if I could get some clarification from you.

I had an idea to make the sacred circuits into three-like, three-dimensional. Yes. So I did that. And I have a friend who's a psychic healer. So what we do is we take whatever of the circuits we like, and we put them like on our... where our heart chakra is. Yes. And we meditate with them. Yes. And um, during one of these meditations, we got in touch with, I think, an alien race of beings called The Turquoise People.

**Bashar:** Well, that's your interpretation. Yeah. They don't call themselves that.

**Questioner 14:** Oh, okay. Well, well, that's how... that's sort of how we interpret them. Yes. And so they were very dense. They seemed very ancient. And so I've been trying to do research on them, and no one has written anything about them. So I wanted to find out... not for thousands of years. So who are you? Won't find any records left.

**Bashar:** I know. But so there's no one else who's gotten in touch with that?

**Questioner 14:** Oh, yes. Energy. But not for a long time on your planet in terms of your history. And no records remain of those initial encounters.

**Bashar:** So who are they?

**Questioner 14:** They are those that have to do with the relationship that you can have with consciousness that you would more likely than not call rocks. They are that level of consciousness that has to do with what seems to be fixed, but to themselves, they are not. It is an invitation to dive into a different level of consciousness whereby you can hear the Earth speak. They told us that they create worlds.

**Bashar:** Yes. And they are worlds. They are worlds. Okay. And they also create like computer beings who then go on to create worlds.

**Questioner 14:** Well, "computer" is a euphemism translation in your language. What they are actually saying is they can create certain patterns of energy that will create a template upon which new worlds can be born.

**Bashar:** Exactly. That. But yeah, I guess because when we were doing the channeling, that was the only way we could sort of interpret it. Yes. How? Okay. So that makes sense. Because then we sort of channeled that being that created this world. And then we found out we had a connection with that person.

**Bashar:** Well, of course. Because you're all offshoots of the same being, right? Everyone remember that there is a collective consciousness and multiple layers of collections of consciousness that are connected to the idea you call your world.

**Questioner 14:** So if no one's been in touch with who... what's their proper name if they're not called The Turquoise People?

**Bashar:** Different cultures in your ancient past had different names for them. You can call them that if you wish. I'm just saying it's your interpretation. They look like they were T... I mean, I knew there were rocks 'cuz they felt like they had that sort of dense rock type of energy. But and they looked turquoise. Yes. So that's why we call them the Turquoise People. That's right. I'm not saying it's wrong. I'm just saying that that's not what they call themselves. There is no translation in your language for what they call themselves.

**Questioner 14:** So does that mean they're an... so they are an alien race?

**Bashar:** They are alien to you, but not alien as you mean it. They're not of Earth. They are, to some degree, connected with your planet, but not in the way you think. You must look at this as a kind of a primal, archetypal, autonomous consciousness that exists in a certain kind of matrix or pattern of energy that is very dense and has to do with the formation of planets.

**Questioner 14:** Okay. So I'm just wondering why your scientists have not yet understood when they talk about the idea of the forces of nature and the forces of physics that cause solar systems to be born, they have not yet discovered that there is consciousness connected to this. These beings are that consciousness.

**Bashar:** Oh, they were amazingly intelligent. I mean, of course. More... it requires intelligence to create planets. I mean, they were... I mean, it was really hard to even be in that energy because it was so dense.

**Questioner 14:** It is very dense. And you are not used to it. It's like going into the deep, deep ocean where the pressure is very great. I could barely understand them. But my friend, who's the psychic healer—who's an amazing psychic healer—she actually loved talking to them and all this other stuff. But I'll give you a close approximation. Have you ever heard the rumble of an earthquake?

**Questioner 14:** Yes.

**Bashar:** That's what they call themselves.

**Questioner 14:** Earthquake? No, no, no, no, no. Earthquake? The actual sound?

**Bashar:** Oh, the actual vibration of molecules that to you reads as the rumble in an earthquake is what they call themselves. The closest, perhaps, if you wish another name, would be Prime Movers. Okay. But you can call them the Turquoise People. They don't care. They were turquoise. And I... they keep saying I need to get a turquoise for whatever reason. Because they're simply suggesting that the vibration of your interpretation of them would allow you to find a stronger connection to them through that particular symbol. Because that's how you interpreted the energy for yourself. Other people would see them in a variety of different ways. Okay. The channel himself actually has a representation of them in a rock, a small rock that is actually literally split down the middle 50/50 black and white. That's his interpretation. And why he was attracted to that rock. Because he is also seeing the polarity in them. So from his perspective, he might call them the 50/50 People or the Black and White Rock People. Okay. Or from an artistic point of view, Chiaroscuro.

**Questioner 14:** I actually know what that means. It is the play and the interplay of shadow and light. Right. Um, so is there some sort of thing related to my path? And that's the reason that I need to get in touch with them?

**Bashar:** So the idea, again, is that you are being given a hint of a permission slip that will work for you to help you connect with very deep Earth vibrations. To ground you, to balance you, and allow you to reach for the heavens at the same time without worrying about becoming too dizzy in the heights. They will keep your feet firmly planted on the ground while you're exploring the stars. Okay. That makes sense.

**Questioner 14:** All right. Then, um, my other question is: when I made the sacred circuits into three-dimensional objects, yes, they're like people now.

**Bashar:** Yes. Remember that everything is consciousness and everything is autonomous. They're like children. And they're... they talk a lot and they're rowdy and chatty circuits. They are.

**Questioner 14:** So is there some way that I'm supposed to like interact? Where's your imagination?

**Bashar:** Where's mine? Yes. Where's your imagination? Did you lose it?

**Questioner 14:** No.

**Bashar:** Then use your imagination and figure out what's best for you to talk with them. Okay. That's what your imagination is for. Because your imagination is the conduit of communication from your higher mind to your physical mind. And it's key to your specific vibration. So whatever you are attracted to, use whatever methodology, whatever tool, whatever technique you are inspired to use through your imagination. Will be the technique that works best for you in this regard. Okay.

**Questioner 14:** I feel like I'm supposed to like raise them like into adult sacred circuits or whatever.

**Bashar:** And when you do that, it will be a reflective symbol of becoming an adult yourself. Okay. Remember that most of you—no offense—are still children. You understand? Yes. So all these things are and can be used as techniques to raise yourself into the adults you prefer to be.



# Q&A Session 15

**Questioner 15:** Has 13 occurred? Um, should I can you take one question, or should I just go?

**Bashar:** Go.

**Questioner 15:** Last. Yeah. Are you 13?

**Bashar:** Yes. All right. The number of transformation.

**Questioner 15:** Hi Bashar. And do you good day? I miss talking to you a lot.

**Bashar:** How do you miss talking with me? You can speak with me anytime you wish.

**Questioner 15:** Yeah. And I did. All right. Um, I'm going to take only two tiny questions from what I have written. Itty-bitty tiny question. One of them is: I had a dream about a week ago. I've been going through very rough times the last two years.

It turned me to discover my best of the art that's in me.

**Bashar:** All right. Well, thank you for using it in a positive way.

**Questioner 15:** Yeah. I had to. And I did it. Thank you. Uh, so the dream was that I... um, when we discuss the idea of the physics of intention tomorrow, that particular aspect will come to the forefront. Which is the aspect of the aspect of... I had to do it. Yeah. Because I had no other choice. Right. Right. Um, so it was survival in the moment. And it's just the best anyway. The dream was that I created... I knew I was ready to face something little scarier than I could handle.

**Bashar:** Nonsense.

**Questioner 15:** I knew I could handle it. So I created it. I created that I was lucid. Yes. Dreaming of a very scary face, very near me. Scary near me. Yes. It was like a human and squarish but terrifying looking. Yes. And looked straight into my eyes.

So I looked it in the eyes and I said, "You are not allowed here. So I'm going to shift dimensions and just wake up in the dream. And you're not allowed here." And I did. All right. But it was really strong. The way I shifted the whole thing, I kind of directed the... like driving a car.

**Bashar:** Thank you for looking at your face in another reality. It was you. Scared yourself straight.

**Questioner 15:** Yeah. So before I slept, I actually directed that. So how can I use that? And with a little tiny translation from you for parallel realities, I have the idea. And that was what I wanted to explore in that dream. Paint all the different faces you imagine you have in different parallel realities and stare into them one at a time until such time as you realize that you are creating conscious connections between and among them all. Until it becomes an overall gestalt of an amalgamation of a variety of parallel realities that you can call your own connections.

**Questioner 15:** Okay. I get that. Let's say one example for this room. Like about how I see this room in a different way that you see it or anybody sees it.

physically, I still don't get all of the idea of parallel realities. 

Because it's a projection. So everybody projects their own idea. Yes. And their own screen. Yes. And in that screen, there's a million... there's 200 screens here. Yes. But you all have some degree of consensus agreement. Otherwise, you would not be able to interact. 

So we're seeing what's common and what's not common. Yes. Okay. Sometimes you see things others don't. Sometimes others see things you don't. But there are certain consensus agreements that allow you to experience or have what you call a shared agreement reality.

