---
heading: Part 4 of Vortex Vibrations
title: "The Buddha"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2009-09-19
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 515
tags: ['buddha']
---



## What is the Buddha?

**Questioner 11:** what is the Buddha? And is a Buddha a being who has achieved a complete body? If so, is a complete body the same as a light body or a rainbow body? And is this something your people are also trying to achieve?

**Bashar:** We try nothing. We simply are what we are. 

We are evolving to higher light states even as you are. As you are going from third density to fourth density, euphemistically, we are going from fourth to fifth. A Buddha, in that sense, is that which reflects and emanates and represents and is aligned with the collective World Spirit, the collective consciousness of all beings on your planet and in your sphere of influence. Okay. Does that make sense?


**Questioner 11:** humans... why do they... why do some people put so much emphasis on meditation to obtain Enlightenment?

**Bashar:** Because that may be the way that works for them. It doesn't have to work that way for everyone. But they may have attracted themselves to the methodology that they believe works best for them. By quieting the self, very often they can, shall we say, get around the mental chatter that they may believe keeps them from knowing themselves more clearly. Meditation can be one of the ways in which that is done. But there are many forms of meditation as well. Sometimes just standing in the shower can be the strongest form of meditation if you simply let your worries melt away. Whatever works for you works for you. Make sense? Because remember, even in the Buddhist texts is the idea that physical reality and being fully in physical reality is sometimes the most spiritual thing you can do. Hence the phrase: "Chop wood, carry water." That's also a meditation. Just doing the things you do in life can also be a meditation if you do it with the appropriate relationship. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 11:** Yes. Um, going with that, yes... wh... why... kind of draw a blank here. Well, all right. You have achieved a Buddhist state. Wh... why is it that the Buddha... no, you answered your own question and then you removed it from yourself again. But go ahead. Probably. Um, so yes. But why is it that Shakyamuni Buddha taught that we are in a state of Samsara and that we must try to get out of there?

**Bashar:** Is no trying. The idea is to understand that what was being said is that it is important to form a sense of attached detachment to physical reality so that you do not become overwhelmed or immersed too deeply in the idea of physical reality so that it appears to be, in that sense, a straitjacket. For some people, certain methodologies work. And you must understand, there are many belief systems that exist on your planet, aren't there?

**Questioner 11:** Aren't there? Yes.

**Bashar:** Therefore, there have to be different teachers to address the different belief systems. So the Buddha will address certain belief systems that work for certain people, and other beings will address different belief systems that work for others. Period. Remember that any belief system must make itself appear to be the only belief system that works in order for it to work for the people that believe it. Make sense?

**Questioner 11:** Yes. Uh, that's how beliefs work. If beliefs didn't make themselves appear to be the only belief that would work, no beliefs would work. You wouldn't have an experiential physical reality. So any belief system must make itself appear to be exclusive to other beliefs, or that belief won't work for the people that are attracted to use it.

**Bashar:** Okay. Um, going with that, yes. What about the idea of suffering? And what about it? And karma?

**Bashar:** Karma is self-imposed. So is suffering. The idea is that polarity exists. And yes, there are challenges. You don't have to suffer. And in a sense, the whole point of suffering is to learn that you don't need to suffer anymore. Which is similar to the idea of karma. The whole idea of learning about karma is to recognize that as soon as you understand that karma is self-imposed, there is no more karma. There is always balance, but that's not in the sense of the old idea of karma that there is some sort of punishment or forced idea upon the person.

**Questioner 11:** Okay. So if there is self... if it's self-imposed, yes. Then what about the people that go and they do very bad things to other people? Negative things.

**Bashar:** Negative things. They will experience the consequences of those actions. But you could call it karma, but we simply call it the third law: what you put out is what you get back. It's simply physics. Karma is nothing but physics. But we remove the idea of the word because we know that in ancient times, the connotation of the word karma carried a value judgment. And there's no value judgment to it. It's just physics. Positive energy is integrative and expansive. Negative energy is segregative and destructive. So the idea is that if someone exhibits negative energy, they're going to experience the consequences of segregation and destruction upon themselves at some point. And to balance that out, they simply must do positive energy things to balance it out. Now, if you want to call that karma, that's fine. But all we're simply saying is that version of karma is all there is. And all it is is physics: what you put out is what you get back.

**Questioner 11:** So after death, yes. Is it possible for that... for the effects of that to carry over to after somebody dies?

**Bashar:** Yes. So that's yes. But only to the degree that they are willing to explore it. Very often, when people on your planet die, they will immediately experience a reality that is based on the strongest thing they believe they will experience after they die. If they don't have a particular belief, then they will simply get the results of whatever the combination of their beliefs happen to be, both positive and negative. But very soon, they will learn very quickly—because there is not the same kind of time and space in non-physical reality—very quickly, they will learn that they control that and that they can create whatever they want. Now, "quickly" is relative. Sometimes, compared to the idea of the time frame of physical reality, it may seem as if a spirit may go through the idea of that kind of self-evaluation and self-balancing over what may appear to be thousands of years. Or it can appear to happen in a split second. Because time is relative in that sense. But it just depends on the vibrational relationship between that particular spirit and physical reality in terms of how that's perceived. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 11:** I'll trying to inter... uh, take that.

**Bashar:** We are saying all that we are saying is that every single thing you do has consequences and ripples within the idea of existence. And there is nowhere to run away from it. So at some point, at some state, at some stage, everything that is done, once the barriers drop, once the illusion of separation goes away, you will experience the energy of everything that has been done by you. But the idea is that you will learn from that experience what it is you now wish to do with that experience. And you can decide to do anything you want with it. But the idea is that as you learn what you can do, that you automatically become a more balanced being because you're willing to learn from every experience, both positive and negative. And the more you're willing to allow yourself to learn from every experience, the more balanced you become. And the more positive experiences you then choose from that point forward. Even though you always have the option to choose negative ones, they just become equal choices at a certain point of enlightenment. And you simply choose what you prefer without devaluing what you don't. Okay. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 11:** Yes. All right. Here on Earth, we have a problem with, u, the example is mosquitoes. Mosquitoes. Yes. And uh, well, not everyone has a problem with them, you know. Okay. Maybe not everyone. But um, all right. I want to use this an example. If mosquito... if I'm meditating, yes. And if mosquito is coming around me biting me, and if I include the mosquito in the meditation...

**Bashar:** The idea of enlightenment is integration, not exclusion. So whatever is happening in your reality, if you include it as part of your experience, you will see how you can incorporate it and expand, rather than attempting to exclude and thus diminish. Make sense?

**Questioner 11:** What if I can't include it and I end up killing it?

**Bashar:** Then you do. And thus then, you will learn from that at some level as to whether or not that's what you prefer to do. And perhaps from that, from learning what you, in a sense, do not prefer to do, you will then more clearly understand what you do prefer to do. But it's something... something uh, to me that seems so trivial.

**Bashar:** As to it's not trivial. Nothing is. Okay. So killing that mosquito is not trivial. Yes. And um, and yet at the same time, it's up to you to decide utterly what you will do with that experience. So there are consequences with even that behavior. Yes. Of course. But the word "consequence" only means that there is, in a sense, a response. There is a vibration that is accounted for. The word itself, consequence, is not negative. It simply means you have to take stock. You have to take account of everything that you have created, one way or another. So it's now, by doing any act at all, it's now on your ledger book. It adds up to the bottom line. And it determines what you now have to deal with.

**Questioner 11:** So for somebody with a high spirituality, if they committed an act like that, would they have serious consequences?

**Bashar:** Serious is relative. There is consequences. But depending upon the individual and why they chose to do it, the consequences would be commensurate. And the response and the awareness would be commensurate with why they did that. You are describing the idea of an individual, you say, is very highly spiritually enlightened. So it begs the question as to why that kind of an experience would actually have even been attracted into their lives. For if they are highly spiritual and that kind of an experience happened, then probably it happened for a very spiritual reason, and they would know that. Okay. Perhaps in that case, for example, they simply acted out of spirituality and by doing so prevented someone else from catching malaria. And they knew that. Do you understand? And you have to look at it also from the mosquito's point of view. Because the mosquito consciousness may have attracted itself to that enlightened person to give that enlightened person an opportunity to decide also which way the mosquito's energy and consciousness should also go in that reality. And perhaps the mosquito wanted to transition to another level and use the Buddha to do it. Okay. So who's the enlightened one?


## Q&A Session 12

**Questioner 12:** I'm on the brink of making some big changes in my life. I feel like is it... yes. And I feel like I'm changing as a person. My perception of...

**Bashar:** How can you not change as a person when you make a change in your life? Do you understand what it means to be a person? Do you know what a person is?

**Questioner 12:** I'm a person.

**Bashar:** Do you know what you are as a person? A person, in that sense, is a projection, a mask of consciousness created out of the idea of beliefs, emotions, and thought actions, behaviors. Okay. So the idea is that any change you make changes the balance of those things and literally—this is not an analogy—literally changes the person you are. I don't care if you think you still look the same in the mirror. You're not the same person from moment to moment. Literally. When you really wrap your mind around that, you will understand how profoundly you can experience true change. Because every change is a total change of everything everywhere. Right? You are actually shifting from one parallel reality to another and are a different person in that reality. Literally. So yes, of course, you are going to make a change, and you are going to be a different person. But in having said that, you already have made a change and are already a different person than began this conversation. Yes.

**Questioner 12:** So I'm just wondering if I'm on the right path.

**Bashar:** Are you on the path where you are being your true self to the best of your ability and following your highest joy? Hesitation means no.

**Questioner 12:** The only reason that I hesitate is because I feel that the changes that I make will affect others in my life.

**Bashar:** And are you, in that sense, willing to be responsible to them without being responsible for the decisions they choose to make of how to react to your changes? Can you be clear and honest in your communication about why you are making the changes you are making so they understand who you are and why you're making those changes?

**Questioner 12:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Do you give them an opportunity to give you some advice and some insight, and that you yourself will then decide what to apply in your life?

**Questioner 12:** Um, yes. I feel that... um, all right.

**Bashar:** Then you have done everything you need to do. And any reaction they have that is incompatible with your choices is their issue, not yours. Okay. Do you follow? Mhm. As long as you are being clear and open in your communication with regard to who you are, then they know who they are in a relationship with. And you can give them an opportunity to decide whether they wish to continue to be in a relationship with the "you" you have defined yourself to be. If they decide they do, then they will change accordingly. If they decide they don't, then they won't. But you have given them the opportunity. You've been responsible to them. You can't be responsible for them or whatever their reactions are going to be. Okay. Make sense?

**Questioner 12:** Makes sense. Another question. Yes. I feel like I've been asking for signs lately, and I feel like I've been receiving them. But sometimes I wonder if they're coincidence. Is there such thing as...

**Bashar:** There is no such thing as an accident. Okay. You create synchronicity. And sometimes synchronicity is messages from guides and other beings. But the idea, nevertheless, is that you are creating your own road signs, are attracting them to yourself. Everything is an orchestration. And even though there is randomness in physical reality, what it is you decide to do freezes that randomness into a particular synchronistic path. So it's not an accident in that sense. It's all an orchestration. Sometimes certain things within the orchestration may not have the same degree of relevance to you that it might have to someone else. But that doesn't mean it's an accident. Okay. You understand? Even when many of you are, to use one of your situations, sitting in traffic, it is no accident who's around you. It is no accident that you are around them. Look around and you will see more signs. Instead of assuming that something is wrong and that you are stuck, it's all an orchestration. There is no accident to the timing of anything. Because it's not about time; it's about timing. Make sense?

**Questioner 12:** Yes. Do that help you?

**Questioner 12:** Yes. So I should follow these signs?

**Bashar:** Should you? Can I? And if I don't, then is that not following my true path? In many ways, you can ignore the signs. That is your option. However, your reality will show you in no uncertain terms if you start going against the grain of your own true self. Because then your reality will have negative synchronicity, and things will become very, very sluggish and difficult for you. All pain is the result of resistance to the natural self. But that's the joy of the pain. It shows you: "Hey, you're swimming upstream. Why don't you relax and go with the flow?" 


## Q&A Session 13

**Questioner 13:** Evening, Bashar. And you, good day. Um, last June, uh, I talked to you about the idea of a soulmate. Yes. And you said the idea of just feeling always feeling like I'm in love, 'cuz that's why we're in love, because we like that feeling of being in love. 

Because that is the natural state, right? And a soulmate can be anyone you're interacting with at any given moment who teaches you something about yourself. Well, I'm thinking more in the line of a romantic relationship.

**Bashar:** Yes. I know you are. Nevertheless, understand that a soulmate doesn't necessarily always have to come in that form, although it can. Okay. And so, um, I've worked on my belief system, and I've cleared a lot of things in other areas of my life. There are things manifesting like crazy, and I'm very excited.

**Questioner 13:** Um, in this matter of soulmate, I would like you to go with me to what happened a couple of weeks ago because I wanted to explore the last layers of belief system that I may have regarding this issue.

**Bashar:** Right. Then by all means. What happened?

**Questioner 13:** Um, I don't really want to talk about it. I met someone...

**Bashar:** If you're not going to be able to be of much help to you if you don't share.

**Questioner 13:** Well, can't you go with me in my mind?

**Bashar:** If I to some degree. But if you're unwilling to open the door, we can't open it. Well, I mean, we only work by permission.

**Questioner 13:** Okay. I give you absolute permission.

**Bashar:** Um, then what happened?

**Questioner 13:** Okay. I met someone very briefly. Yes. As you would say, or not as humanity would say, accidentally. But I know there was no accident about it. And the energy of this person just really meshed with mine. And he expressed somewhat of an interest. And but it didn't come to fruition. And I understand that I can look at this experience and say "so what." Yes. But I would like to go to the next layer of really understanding what my belief system is. Because when I go in my mind visualizing him, his energy is so perfect with mine. Do you understand?

**Bashar:** What we have said about the idea of your physical mind's capability to visualize? Yes. Therefore, you understand that even though you are using him as a symbol of the ideal relationship, he is only a symbol at the moment.

**Questioner 13:** Absolutely.

**Bashar:** All right. Then it doesn't matter whether it comes to fruition with him or someone else. Because if it's only a symbol, your higher mind and your synchronicity will bring you the person with whom the actual vibration that the symbol represents can be experienced. So it doesn't matter whether it's him or someone else. You understand?

**Questioner 13:** Absolutely. It might be him. But you don't know that yet. Right. But I do want to explore my belief system about why, if this is a possibility, why it didn't happen. Because I know there is some belief system in my thoughts that does not allow this manifestation to come through. May it be him?

**Bashar:** You really truly believe you're ready?

**Questioner 13:** Yes. Yes, I am.

**Bashar:** But there is one. Is he actually truly compatible on all the levels you actually prefer him to be?

**Questioner 13:** I don't know.

**Bashar:** Well, there you go.

**Questioner 13:** But wouldn't I have to go on a date with him and explore? Maybe not.

**Bashar:** So are you saying that the reason that it hasn't come to fruition is that maybe he hasn't hit all the points that I'm... maybe so. May I ask you a question?

**Questioner 13:** Yes.

**Bashar:** When it, as you put in your language, did not come to fruition, were you disappointed?

**Questioner 13:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Yes. Then that's why it didn't come to fruition. Okay. Do you understand what I'm saying? Yeah. The situation proved to you that you still carry disappointment and are not truly living in the moment. So you're not actually yet the person to whom someone like that could be attracted. Right? Do you understand?

**Questioner 13:** Yes. So what you're not using what did happen in a positive... in a positive way.

**Bashar:** So I'm not saying "so what" appointed your yourself from that position. You understand? You disappointed yourself from that relationship.

**Questioner 13:** Okay. Could you explain that please?

**Bashar:** You removed yourself from the proper appointment. Dis-appointed. I did. Yes. Well, then that proves that that's what it served. It reflected to you that you still carry that energy because you did not get what you expected to get. So you still had the expectation and didn't allow it to be. Didn't allow the relationship to be what it actually was. You put your expectation on what you thought it needed to be. Right?

**Questioner 13:** And I have that. And that's not what you actually want to do in an ideal relationship.

**Bashar:** No. I always get disappointed and say, "Okay, well, there I miss the boat again." Or you didn't miss anything if you allow yourself to learn that you do not need to be disappointed when what you expect to happen doesn't happen. Then you will break through that particular threshold. So back to the "so what," in a sense. Yes. Okay. Okay. It didn't come to fruition. We didn't go on a date. So what? Right. Then allow yourself to see what happens from there synchronistically. Right. Because if he is synchronistically right, because if he is going to be representative of that soulmate, something will happen to bring him back. And remember, it's not him anyway. Because now he's a different person. Doesn't matter that he looks similar to the other guy. It's not him. Do you understand? It's not the same person. Because he had to come as a different version when you changed into a different version. So he is not the same person that was there a moment ago that didn't go on a date with you. Okay. So it's not the same person anyway. So it doesn't matter that it's not the same person. Because it never is. Right? No matter how they look. Okay. That's just an illusion of continuity. Okay. Are you understanding this?

**Questioner 13:** Yes. Right. So okay. Okay. I got it. I got it. One really quick question after that. Um, after getting together with you and your information and your knowledge, my life is really moving really fast. I'm very...

**Bashar:** Congratulations for making it your own knowledge. It's very exciting.

**Questioner 13:** It is. Um, one aspect of who I am has is not moving along with me.

**Bashar:** Are you sure?

**Questioner 13:** Absolutely.

**Bashar:** Is this another expectation?

**Questioner 13:** Well, um, it's it's about my hair loss. Yes. And um, because I... are you becoming more Essassani?

**Questioner 13:** Yeah. I don't have any hair.

**Bashar:** Well, I'm a woman. I need to have hair.

**Questioner 13:** Why do you need to have hair?

**Questioner 13:** Because it's taken away from what I look like. So am I becoming an Essassani? I don't think I'm ready for that.

**Bashar:** Not many of you are. Yeah. Nevertheless, nevertheless, if this is my reality and my life, and I have a say in it, I'd like to have hair.

**Bashar:** All right. Then have hair.

**Questioner 13:** So how can I... what is it about the belief system that I'm not able to change?

**Bashar:** Because when you allow what is to be what needs to be, then you can change it. Right? When you don't allow it to be what it is, you have no control over it.

**Questioner 13:** I totally... that's the issue. I totally understand that.

**Bashar:** But no, not totally. Well, because you would be asking this question because it freaks me out.

**Questioner 13:** Then you don't totally understand it. Because when you totally understand it, it won't freak you out. It will calm you down.

**Questioner 13:** Well, can you help me understand it?

**Bashar:** I just did.

**Questioner 13:** Well, it went right over my head.

**Bashar:** Right over your hairless head. That's right. When you stop needing things to be a certain way, you have the ability to allow them to be however you prefer them to be. So stop needing things to be a certain way.


