---
heading: Part 1
title: "Dialoguing with the Future self"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2010-09-11
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 510
tags: ['time', 'space']
---



Time and space are illusions. Past, present, future are illusionary ideas.

They are experienced as real in your third-dimensional reality. But this is only an experience that is happening within your own consciousness. And the idea of space-time is a projection of that consciousness, in a sense a reflection of that consciousness within itself. To have an experience of creation, to have an experience of the process of creation, the mechanism of creation, you have incorporated within your consciousness the concept of a time lag so that you can actually experience the idea of creation in action rather than instantaneously. By creating this process, by creating the illusional experience of a past and a present and a future, you give yourselves the opportunity as a consciousness to experience something that cannot be had on the higher realms because there time and space are not what they are in your experience and things happen quite differently. Even though there may be some remnant of the idea of differentiation in time and space, it is nothing like what you experience in the idea you call physical reality.

As we have said thus then, the truth of the matter so to speak is that there really is no such thing as time itself. There is the experience of it, but you are creating that in your consciousness, but it does not exist empirically outside of you. The idea is that everything exists now simultaneously because there is only now. Ask yourself at any time what time it is. It is always now. It is never then. It is always now. You cannot actually experience the idea of the past. You cannot actually experience the idea of the future. You can only experience now.

Even though you may have things that you create that you call evidence of the past such as photographs of things that you have done and so on and so forth as you call it, fossil records and so on and so forth as you call it. The idea really is, when you stop to think about it, those things actually exist within you in the present. A photograph of something that happened in the so-called past exists in the present. The photograph doesn't actually exist in the past. It exists with you now. And just because there is a picture on it that represents the idea of the past to you, that photograph, that picture only exists in your hand in the present because you are creating it. You are creating the idea right now of your experience. And as you create the idea of your present experience, you are also depending on how you define that present experience and depending upon how you define yourself in this present experience, you are also creating the past and the future.

Each and every time, each and every time you redefine yourself as a new person, you literally, literally, literally have a new past and a new future. You create the past from the present, not the other way around. Even though we understand that the habit you have gotten into is to linearly think that the present is the result of the past and that the present will lead to a particular future result when in fact it actually does not. These things all coexist at the same time. All realities, all experiences, all parallel universes all exist right now, right here. Most of them are invisible to you. But that does not mean that they do not exist.

An analogy we have often used and we will repeat briefly now is the idea of what you call your television sets, your radio sets. The idea being that anytime you sit down to watch a television program, you know that at that moment there are any number of other television programs that exist at the same time, but you only get the one that your channel is tuned to. You only get the one that you are tuned to by frequency. So it is with the nature of the structure of existence and reality itself. You only get what you're tuned to being that what your vibration is synchronized with. And thus then that doesn't mean that the other realities don't exist yet. They all do, but they are invisible to you in the same way that all the programs are invisible until you decide to change the channel, change the frequency.

Thus then you know that when you go from channel 2, as you say, to channel 4, you know that the program that you were watching on channel 2 still exists. It hasn't really in a sense gone into the past. It's still there and you can change back to it if you wish. But this analogy permeates the idea in reality throughout the structure of existence. All things exist. What is new is your experience of those things depending upon how you shift your focus of consciousness to the realities, to the parallel realities that already exist, by shifting your frequency and thus aligning yourself with the frequency of that particular reality in order to get that program, that new show as you say, by changing your channel.

---

## The Future Self and Dialoguing

Thus then the idea, the notion of the future and the notion of the future self and the past self, but today's dialogue is with the future self. The notion of the future is that that already exists. That version of you exists right now. It is autonomous. It is self-aware. It is its own reality. It is its own person. And it exists right now alongside you in a sense interpenetrating you. But it is invisible to you. That you is invisible to you until such time as your overall consciousness shifts its focus in such a manner as to give the idea of the individual you, the physical you, the personality you, an experience of that particular version of all of the versions of you that simultaneously coexist. Thus, you are constantly flipping through your channels in that way.

We have recently talked about the idea of parallel realities and how they are structured, what the nature of them are. And in this way, we understand sometimes there are shortcomings in translating these thoughts into your language. But these analogies will serve as a rough illustration. The idea again is that any particular parallel reality actually has no movement in it whatsoever. It is a frozen snapshot, a frozen tableau of an idea. The only way you experience the illusion of movement at all is because you're actually shifting through parallel realities all the time. And each parallel reality, like a frame of film, has a slightly different position. These are different parallel realities. Literally, each and every one of you shift through literally billions, yes, billions of parallel realities every second. You do it so automatically. You do it so effortlessly you don't even know you're doing it. But that's why you have the illusion you call movement. So this movement, one second, a billion parallel realities. Literally you're automatically shifting all the time. The only reason you don't know it, the only reason you're really not aware of it is because the parallel reality you shift to in that one billionth of a second and a billionth of a second and a billionth of a second are designed by your consciousness to be so similar to the last parallel reality you were in that you don't actually think it's a completely different parallel reality when in fact it is.

So the idea is that you don't have to learn to shift. The idea is that you have to become aware of the fact that you are shifting already. And the only way you will start to really notice that you're shifting from reality to reality is to create a greater degree of difference between the definitions of those realities. So you can tell by comparison that you have shifted because you are shifting automatically, effortlessly and immediately all the time as I said billions of times a second.

So this idea of allowing yourself to experience an interaction with the so-called future self is all about shifting your frequency in such a manner as to create a kind of a leapfrog effect over a number of other intermediary parallel realities so that you can create a great degree of difference between the reality you consider to be your present and the reality you consider to be your future, both of which coexist at the same time and you, the version of you in that future reality, already exists and you can dialogue with that person, he or she. The idea is that that's exactly what's happening here in this transmission as we have discussed from time to time that from your perspective I am the channel's future self and the channel is one of my past lives on your planet. So we are in that sense the same soul in two different variations able to communicate and cross-communicate simultaneously with each other. You can do the same and in fact you often do the same. It's just that you don't always know it. Or when you receive certain kinds of ideas and inspirations, you don't necessarily know that it may in fact be a communication from the future self or that you may be drawing on an experience that the future self is having because that's how you actually connect to the so-called idea of other lives because all lives exist at the same time.

Past lives don't really exist in the past. They're all existing now. And it isn't exactly you. It's a variation, another extension of the same oversoul of which you are also a part. But the idea is that when you talk about being, shall we say, influenced by a past life, all that means is that in this life, this particular idea you call an incarnation in present tense, you have decided that one of the definitions of this reality will be that you will make cross-connectional communication conduit connections to all these other lives because you will draw upon those experiences to aid and assist you with whatever theme you are exploring in this particular life and they are doing the same with you. Pulling on your experience because in many ways, linearly speaking, you right here and now are the future selves of those that you consider to be your past lives. But again, you all exist at the same time. And there is cross communication going on like a net, like a web between all of you constantly all the time. Many again of the ideas you may have that you don't know where they came from may be coming from experiences going on in other lives at this moment. You are in constant communication with them all the time. You are one gigantic communication net within your collective consciousness on the oversoul level. And each and every being that you consider an individual incarnational life is simply an extension of that grand oversoul being that you actually are.

There are approximately, approximately now again we understand these as an arbitrary frequency division but again we just use this to illustrate a point. There are on your planet now as you know approximately in excess of 6 billion people climbing towards 7 billion. But that amount of individuated people only represents about 300,000 oversouls. You are all extensions of about 300,000 oversouls. And of course above and beyond that, everyone is an extension of only one thing, the source of all that is. But on the division that you call the oversoul level, all of the billions of people on your planet are extensions of fewer, many fewer oversouls. So you're all experiencing these ideas simultaneously as extensions of the grander beings that you are.

The idea thus of dialoguing with your future self is for you to gain more awareness and more consciousness of how to draw specifically upon the communication frequency of that particular connection to aid and assist you again more consciously in what you call your present life. To draw upon the experiences of that you, in a sense that has already made certain choices you have yet to make. So that you can use the future self as a beacon, as a guiding light to allow you to know how to remain within the frequency of that which is most truly you. That which is most naturally you. That which represents your true self, your highest joy, your highest excitement, your true frequency, which is what excitement is, which is what joy is, which is what unconditional love is, your true natural frequency. And the idea more often than not in most of you is that the future self, the future you, somehow already has a handle on that frequency. Is already living the life you say you wish to live. Therefore, why not ask the future self, how did I get there? What path did I take? What choices did I make? What choices did you make? You can make those kinds of connections. You can receive guidance in that way.

Now again there are an infinite number of probable future realities. There is no such thing as the one future. But nevertheless because there are an infinite number of probable future realities, you can pick and choose. You can discuss. You can dialogue. You can decide which ideas really resonate with you. And the idea here is that you're simply increasing your ability to guide yourself from another perspective. You are expanding your ability to be aware of more of what you are as a being of light, as a being of consciousness, as a co-creator within the structure of all that is. And you are thus then capable of relying upon that in a very, very concrete way, shall we say.

This day of your time in this transmission, we are going to be discussing different levels of the idea of the future self. First, we are going to be doing a dialogue and an exercise with the idea of what you would simply recognize as your immediate future self in this life. You shall we say a little bit farther up the road in this life. But beyond that, later on this day of your time, we are also going to be talking about the idea of other variations and versions of the concept of the future self beyond this physical life so that you can allow yourself the full contact with the full spectrum of that concept and draw upon that information, those experiences in a much more conscious way so that you do not limit yourself as best as possible in any negative context.

---

## Exercise: Visualizing Your Future Self

So first and foremost we will ask each and every one of you just to ponder for a moment the idea of yourself. This self that you call yourselves now, this present you. Ponder the idea of yourself in five years. Where do you want to be? Who do you want to be? What do you want to be doing? Just take a moment. Think about it. Think about your dreams. Think about your desires. Think about what excites you that you may not be doing yet, that you may not have taken action on and project an idea, a vision, an image of yourself doing this thing in 5 years.

---

## The Threshold of Believability

Now, before we begin with that, while we let that, shall we say, filter down into your consciousness, while you ponder that, while it bubbles and stews within you, we would like to say a couple of other things. Reinforce some things we have talked about before so that you understand how to more completely utilize this exercise.

Number one, we have talked about the idea called the threshold of believability. And what this basically means is we understand sometimes that many of you have belief systems within your consciousness that may be inhibiting you from believing that you can actually accomplish certain things within a certain time frame. Many of you when you think about the idea of your greatest joy, your fantastic desires, your dreams and your wishes and where you would like to see yourself and what you would like to do have difficulty believing that you can actually accomplish it within a certain time frame. Sometimes you may think, well, it's going to take me a long time to do that because I believe this is true and this is true and this is true and I have to do this first and this first and this first and I have to do it in this way and that way and this way and all sorts of rationale that you bought into when you were growing up in your reality about how you think you need to go about doing things or how you think things can only be done.

Thus then the threshold of believability test is about you allowing yourself to alter your beliefs in such a manner as to reduce the amount of time it will take in your belief system to actually allow a certain thing to manifest in your life.

So, for example, if you have a particular idea, a particular dream, a particular vision, a particular thing that represents your highest joy that you're not doing yet or at least not doing as fully as you would really like to in your life, begin with a time frame way beyond, way beyond what you believe is the amount of time necessary for you to finally allow that to manifest, for you to accomplish that thing. Let's just say arbitrarily right now 30 years. If you ask yourself the question, do I believe beyond a shadow of a doubt with absolute conviction that 30 years is more than enough time for me to have manifested this dream? Answer yes or no as quickly as you can to that question. If you can automatically say, "Oh, 30 years. Oh, yes, no problem. No problem at all. That's more than enough time." As soon as you can answer that immediately, yes, you know that's enough time within your present belief system, then simply count backwards. Count down in whatever increments you wish, by year, by month, however it is, 5 years, doesn't matter. But count down in a manner so that you can ask yourself the question over and over again. Do I believe 20 years is more than enough time for me to accomplish this, for me to manifest this dream? Oh yes, 20 years. That's a long time. No problem. I know I can do it then. No problem. Do I believe 10 years is enough time to accomplish this? Oh yes, no problem. 10 years, that's a long time. A lot can happen in 10 years. Absolutely. I have absolute confidence that with my present belief system, I can absolutely manifest this in 10 years. Do I believe I can manifest this in five years? Um, maybe.

The idea is, the second at whatever increment counting down, the second you hesitate to answer yes even for a microsecond, that's how long it will take with your present belief system. So the idea then is to ask, well, what would I have to believe is true in order for it to take that long? Now you start investigating. Well, it's because I think I have to do this and I think I have to do this and everyone knows you have to do this. But do I really? Do I really have to do it that way? Is there another way I could do it? Is there a more exciting way I could do it? A way that's more in alignment with my excitement? Well, yes. I could do this. I could do this. I could do this. And if doing those other things in a different way can be done, would that then change the amount of time I think is necessary, that I believe is necessary for me to accomplish this thing? Well, yes, if I incorporated this instead of that, well, that would probably reduce it by a year or two.

So, as soon as you then start asking those questions, you can do the countdown again. Okay, 10 years, is that more than enough time with my new belief system? Oh, yes, no problem. 5 years? Well, yes, with my new belief now I can see easily how I can accomplish this and manifest this within 5 years. Four years, yes, absolutely no problem. 3 years, uh, yes. Oh, little hesitation. Again, at that moment, at the microsecond of hesitation to answer yes, that's how long it will take with the new belief system. And you can keep counting down, counting down, counting down, asking yourself, what would you have to believe is true in order to have it take that much time? and go over that and over that and over that again and again and again until such time as you find that you cannot reduce it any further. No matter what you think of, no matter what new belief you incorporate at that moment, then once you have weedled it down as you say to the minimum amount of time with the belief systems you can come up with that you really can buy into, then that is how long it needs to take in order to create a process that will actually allow you to fully appreciate the experience when it manifests. Because many things do require in your physical reality experience a little bit of a process, a little bit of a space-time experience in order for you to gain what you generally believe as a species, as an experience must be experienced in order to actually have full appreciation and full capability of utilizing and applying the manifestation when it occurs.

I am not saying that people on your planet cannot manifest things almost instantaneously. You can, you can, but not every case needs to have an instantaneous manifestation and not every case ought to have because in many cases because of the way you have structured your psychology you actually do want to enjoy certain amounts of process because it gives you a deeper appreciation and a deeper understanding of the experience itself. So as soon as you have whittled it down to the minimum amount of time, what that tells you is that's the amount of time necessary for you to gain full mastery and full appreciation and a deeper understanding of what that experience is all about. And that's what the soul wants to add to its knowledge, to its growth, to its experience as a soul. Because in that sense when you have whittled it down that far and the manifestation time is now absolutely equal to the necessary process time, then that moment, that time frame in and of itself is a perfectly balanced representation of the theme that you chose as a spirit to explore in physical reality. And you want every single minute of that to happen. You want it to unfold in a certain way because then you will gain the experience. You will gain the satisfaction. You will gain the knowledge in a way that is commensurate with your true growth as a soul, with your true exploration of theme. And you will gain a deeper understanding in that light.

So you can use that threshold of believability test of yourself to at least whittle it down and clear the decks so to speak so that when you begin dialoguing with the future self, you will have already done the work that needs to be done to give yourself the opportunity to know what your baseline is, what your bottom line is, where the future self can help you and the dialogue can help you, but it will not in any way, shape, or form supersede the theme that you chose to explore. It will not circumvent the process that is necessary for you to experience yourself as a physical being, as the identity you chose to experience yourself as, and the experience of understanding that you truly wanted to have by choosing to be physical in the first place.

---

## Visualization and Imagination

So that is one thing you can do to allow yourself clearer communication with the dialoguing of the future self so that you can apply that information in an appropriate way and do your part to make yourself a better receiver, a better antenna for the dialogue that will come from whatever future self you choose to connect to. And there are other things as well going along with this. Just knowing first and foremost that all the variations of your being exist at the same time will begin at first subtly perhaps and then more and more profoundly will begin to dissolve the barriers in your consciousness between what you call different time frames. Again to allow the communication to be more immediate, more instantaneous because you know that you're not actually talking to someone way out there in the future. You're actually simply talking to another variation of yourself right here and right now. No more distant from you than anyone in this room is distant from you. And in fact, closer than that because it is another variation of yourself, another extension of your soul. And it is all within you. And it in that sense allows you to be able to talk to yourself, to all the variations of yourself, all the components you have crafted yourself to be in a very homogeneous and harmonious and aligned way. In a sense this is the positive side of multiple personality. This is multiple personality order, not disorder. This is how you integrate the idea of your collective consciousness by dissolving these barriers and forming a conscious realization of the network of communication that's already going on between all the various shall we say descriptions of you, definitions of you that you have created yourself to be as a greater being, having all these simultaneous experiences going on within you that you can draw upon, that you can rely upon for guidance, for experience, for instruction if you wish.

So it's all right to be a little bit crazy because there is a good crazy and this is the good crazy. The idea of opening up to the understanding that you are more than you think yourselves to be. Just by nature, you are more than you have been taught to believe you are as a being, as a consciousness. You are more multifaceted than you can possibly imagine with your physical perspective.

The idea thus then of this future you in this life already experiencing something that you call a dream, a desire, a wish, the thing that excites you the most will be what allows you also to utilize a second thing. We have talked about a second technique, a second tool and this is the idea of your imagination itself and your visualization capability. Now, sometimes we hear many of you go, "I can't visualize." Nonsense. You visualize all the time. You just don't think you do. The idea is that really when you stop trying too hard, you visualize just fine. But the idea is that you can also do it in any way, shape, or form you want. It doesn't have to be in a particular modality. Whatever works for you works for you. So use it and trust that that's enough because your imagination is keyed to you, keyed to your frequency and will deliver to you if you let it, if you allow it, whatever will work for you. So trust it. Trust it. It is the conduit to your higher self.

The other tool that you can use continuing this transmission is the idea we have discussed of visualization but in the following understanding. Many of you when you have something that you say is your desire that excites you that you can visualize yourself doing at some point in the future will create a particular image, a particular picture of this vision. The idea to remember is that sometimes because of the definitions, because of beliefs you have bought into, many of you will get stuck on that image as being the only way that that can manifest. And so you become insistent about that particular picture when that is exactly the thing that will stop that from happening. The idea is that your physical mind is only capable of picturing so much but your higher mind can imagine more, can picture more. So the idea is that when you know there is something very exciting you would like to do that you would like to manifest and you create a picture of it and see yourself doing it in some future scenario or present scenario, alternative present scenario. The idea is that you often look at all the details in that picture. And the idea is to of course match the version of you in that picture as best as you can because you are saying that is the future you and you're watching the behavior of that you in that image doing that exciting thing. And if you match it and mirror that version of you, you can definitely attract the vibration to yourself of that reality by becoming that you in thought, word, and deed and mimicking and mirroring that version of you. And that's what it's for.

However, because of your learning about the idea that physical reality is real, you often think that the picture you conjure that represents the way you would like that thing to manifest is the only way that that can manifest. And you become insistent on it because that's the highest picture that your physical mind has been able to conjure up of a representation of that manifestation. But that's the point exactly. That's the highest picture your physical mind has been capable of conjuring up. But it's not the highest picture that your total being can conjure up. Your higher mind is capable of conjuring up even a grander picture beyond what your physical mind is capable of imagining. So when you visualize the idea of a manifestation and see the future you in that manifestation, we would suggest you don't become insistent that it must happen exactly as the physical mind has been capable of picturing. What to the physical mind is the ceiling, to the higher mind is the floor. And thus then if you allow yourself to simply use that visualization as a representation, as a symbol of the reality and allow it to let you feel the excitement you would feel were you living what you see in that picture, that is the point of the picture. That is the purpose of the picture. It is that vibration. You want that vibration. You want to feel that reality. But don't insist that it must come out exactly as you see the picture. Use it as a symbol. Use it as a tool. Use it as a technique to get you into the state of being, the state of being of that future self. So that you can thus attract the reality to you in whatever way, shape or form it actually really needs to come to you in, in whatever way, shape or form would actually be the best for all concerned, in a form perhaps even beyond what you were capable of imagining.

So when you paint the picture and see the future you and feel the energy of that reality as if it were happening now, then just let, just allow, let go, let go of the insistence on that picture and allow the higher mind to bring it to you in whatever way, shape or form is truly best for you. Letting the elements change, letting the picture change in whatever way, shape or form it needs to. Trusting that what will come to you, what you will attract will be representative of the state of being in its highest form. Do you all understand? Because when you insist that the image your physical mind was capable of creating is the only way that your dream can manifest, you actually close the door through which it could have come in a way that you could not even imagine, in a grander way, a greater way, even more exciting than you were capable of conjuring up. So, do not shut that door would be our strongest recommendation. Unless, of course, you really want to. That's up to you. We cannot tell you what to do. We can only suggest that this will work for you if you understand the tool and how consciousness works because that's what this is all about. Understanding what consciousness is, what the structure and nature of consciousness is, and understanding that everything is consciousness. Everything is made of consciousness. Therefore, the very structure and nature of existence itself is tantamount to the nature and structure of consciousness and how to use that. How you are using it to become more aware of how you're using it because you've been playing the forgetting game for thousands of your years. Now you are playing the remembering game. Remembering who you are. Pulling yourself back together and allowing yourself to exemplify and express that in your physical experience which is all it is. Physical reality. Physical reality is not real. But your experience of it is. That's the only reality. You are creating a reflection. You're creating an illusion within your consciousness to play in to allow yourself to experience yourself in new ways that cannot be experienced in other dimensions, in other experiences and other expressions of consciousness. It is valid. It is lovely. It is playful. It is creative. It is beautiful if you use it that way.

So the idea again is to use the threshold of believability and to use the idea of letting your higher mind bring you the manifestation according to the vibration, the feeling of the image that you imagine that represents your true excitement because in that image you are acting like you see yourself acting like the future self you say you want to be. And if you mirror that in all the ways you can, you will imbue yourself with that frequency. And by imbuing yourself with that frequency, you will attract the reality that's commensurate with that version of you by becoming that version of you, by acting as that version of you. Again, it doesn't mean that you have to go beyond your means. It just means that you need to do the things in the way that you would do them in your circumstance, whatever your circumstance happens to be.

So the idea is to simply shop the way that you would shop. Even if you do not have at this particular moment a certain amount of money, the future you you say you want to be would still go about shopping in a certain way differently than the way you might go about it. So the idea is to really pay attention to how that you does it, no matter what that you has access to or doesn't have access to in that image. It's really all about the idea of your attitude more than even what you have. It's really about being that you.

And again, please remember the third most important component here of aligning with your future vibration is that seemingly paradoxically, seemingly contradictory, but not all of the things we're talking about in terms of manifesting the idea of the reality of being your future self and dialoguing with your future self to become the future you needs to be done without any expectation at all that anything has to happen. The expectation is similar to the idea of the insistence that only one way is right, that only one way works, that only one image is representative of the you you really want to be. When you can really be the future self, you will be the future self that can respond to any given situation in the way you prefer to respond, no matter how it looks, no matter how it represents itself, no matter what the circumstances are. Because the future you knows that the most important thing is to simply be that ecstatic you, to be that happy you, to be the you you prefer to be, regardless of what's going on around you, because you do not base the future you. The future you does not base his or her happiness on what's happening around him or her. The future you knows that the future you can simply be happy because there is no other choice for the future you. No other choice at all.

So what then you need to do in this particular exercise later on, not right now, later on, shall we say, not homework, but home play during your lunch break. Later on we will talk about the idea now of the idea you say you would like to do, the manifestation you would like to create, the idea of acting on your joy in the highest way. Whatever that image is, pick a particular issue, pick a specific issue you believe right now is not at its full manifestation that's important to you. Yes, you may be working on it. Yes, you may be doing exciting things. Yes, you may be doing it to the best of your ability to act on it as excitingly as you can right now. But if you feel it is not right now the fullest representation of what it could be or you're not going about it in the most exciting way you could be, pick that issue that is most important to you. Have that visualization and let's talk about the idea of dialoguing with the future self five years from now. Just five. Just five.

---

## Warning and Guidance for Dialoguing

Now before we proceed, warning, warning, warning. Creating a dialogue with the future self may create challenges for the present ego structure. Just to let you know, when you truly allow yourself to begin to dialogue with that future you, if you truly allow yourself to let the information flow and you don't edit it with negative ego, you may actually be quite surprised that the information coming from the future you may in some cases, not in all cases, may in some cases sound completely contradictory to what the present ego thinks it would like to hear. That can be a big challenge for the present ego. You must be willing. Here's the fourth component. You must be willing, very willing to trust that whatever it is that the future you is going to say is in your best benefit. Even if it is sounding completely contradictory to what you think the path is all about or where you think you're going to wind up in that image. Because this is part and parcel of allowing the future you to work with the higher self to bring you what you really need, what is really representative of maintaining and manifesting the state of being you want to be in, not what the ego structure thinks is necessary for that.

At the same time, you also have to be discerning in the other direction because you could just as easily fool yourself in the other direction. And you could receive something that you think is a communication from the future self telling you something that you say you don't want to hear. But you may only be doing that to actually avoid going in the direction of your excitement. You may throw yourself off the path to avoid going in a direction you fear to go. So you have to be very discerning about telling the difference. And you have to be very willing to allow yourself to be honest within your self assessment as to whether you're truly willing and allowing that information to come from the future self or whether you are coloring and filtering it to satisfy the fears and the beliefs that may be existing within the present physical mind structure. Didn't say this wouldn't be a challenge. Nevertheless, you will get better at it. How do I know that? Because I am talking to your future selves. And you probably would not be in this transmission today were you not on some level capable knowing that you're capable of dialoguing with your true future self that is representative of who you really wish to be. You all have this capacity. We know that you do. It is up to you to decide whether that is true for you or not.

Now, we will thus then later on in this day of your time get back to the idea of dealing with dialogues from this five-year in the future future self. But what you are going to do during your lunch break is after you have picked this particular issue that is important to you that represents your highest joy that you feel may not be manifesting at this point in your life. After you have visualized that idea and after you have allowed yourself to whittle down the time frame as best as you can with your threshold of believability test and after you know you don't need to insist on a particular image and after you are willing to allow the unexpected to occur in this dialogue, you will if you wish. You don't have to. It's up to you. This is not right or wrong. You can do it whenever you wish. We are giving you the opportunity to do it during this overall transmission today. It's up to you. No right or wrong.

Write down one paragraph. One paragraph only on one page. One page only. Doesn't have to fill the page, but doesn't go beyond one page. One paragraph can be short. One paragraph of what you imagine your future self would say about how you got to that reality, how you became that future you. Allow the dialogue to come from the future self about what decisions you made and what happened in your life, expected or unexpected, that allowed you to actually finally live that dream. One paragraph because the future you is efficient. So you may do that during your lunch break if you wish or you may do it at some other time. But we are going to give you an opportunity during the second part of this transmission for whoever is willing to read your paragraph and we will comment on it and help you fine-tune it if you wish. So, it's an opportunity for you to have real hands-on interaction here in really fine-tuning the ability to have this dialogue, but it's up to you. Of course, we will not get through everyone, but you'll get the point from the examples that we will interact with. So, it's up to you. That is your play during lunch. One paragraph, one paragraph only from the future you on how you got to be the future you. All right. All right.

---

## Questions and Answers

### Question 1: Angels

**Questioner:** I want to know a little bit about the angels.

**Bashar:** The idea in general just to start with a general definition of angelic vibrational energy is the idea that first there is what you call in your language the one. The one is undifferentiated. There is no reflection in the one. So the one has no awareness of itself. When the one which contains everything but in an unbroken way has the first reflection of itself and knows itself as the one, it becomes what we call all that is. Now it's aware of itself as everything. The first split beyond that, the first reflection beyond that of all that is of itself, the first separation beyond that is the level you call angelic consciousness.

**Questioner:** How does you interact as a society with them differ from us? Do you have more interaction with them?

**Bashar:** We do not have more interaction with them. We are more aware of the interactions we have with them. That's the whole difference that we are talking about with all of you in all of this. It isn't that you are doing anything differently than us. We are just more consciously aware of what is being done and that is what you are attempting to do—become more aware of what's already going on.

---

### Question 2: Blind Daughter - Manifesting Change

**Questioner:** My daughter has been listening to your wisdom for several years now. She's 18 and she's blind. She always asks me if Bashar says we can switch to another world, then can I switch to a world where I'm not blind?

**Bashar:** Does she believe that she can?

**Questioner:** That's what we're working on. I play this game with her where I say, "Well, imagine what it's like. What would you be doing if you were sighted?" And we play this game usually on a daily basis.

**Bashar:** At the same time, of course, understand this individual chose this experience for a certain reason. It may well be for the reason of transforming this, you understand? Into something else. And it may also be for other reasons. The individual must do an honest self assessment about why this choice was made. What the individual is getting out of having this choice as it is. What other individuals are learning by interacting with this individual as they are because that will give you a clue as to why the theme was chosen. Once it is understood why the theme was chosen and what everyone is getting out of it, what everyone is learning by this experience, then it is in a sense more likely that the experience can be transmuted into something else once the original experience has served its purpose. If in fact it has. So the first thing to understand is that all experience serves a purpose by your own choice. And if you truly can learn what that experience is all about and integrate it and incorporate it within yourself to the fullest of your ability, you can in that sense even in this lifetime change your theme and that's actually what you would be doing or what they would be doing—changing their theme once they have used up the theme they already chose.

At the same time, the individual can practice such things that are called on your planet out of body projection so on and so forth so that they can understand that out of body they can see. And in seeing in that way it can also give them some guidelines for what seeing may mean in a physical sense. At the same time, many times individuals may choose an experience where they do not have outer sight so they can actually gain better inner sight. But this may also have to do with the people around them and again what the people are learning who are in a sense in a family relation or a friend relation with them. But once the theme is understood, once the theme is incorporated, especially now in this day and time in your reality, you have the ability to transmute your theme once you have actually fully used the original theme that was chosen.

**Questioner:** My fear is that I'm not putting anything into her head. It's her idea to want to see, not mine.

**Bashar:** You can also remind that you actually see with in a sense with the brain physically speaking, not really with the eyes per se. They can allow themselves to begin exercises where they imagine the neurology, the wiring of their brain rearranging itself, which it actually does with every new thought. But they can allow themselves to imagine a rewiring that is specifically conducive to being a better receptor for the idea of images and can learn to actually see with the mind whether the eyes are involved or not.

**Questioner:** Lately I've been remembering things from my childhood as if something is about to change drastically in my life.

**Bashar:** You are remembering. We are giving off a frequency that invites you to match that frequency to be more of yourself. So even though we are giving off that energy, the only way you can actually have an experience of integration with that energy is to recreate that frequency in your own reality. So it's both us and you working in concert. The idea is that even though you are quote unquote interacting with us, you're interacting with your own higher self, your own future self. We are allowing ourselves to be utilized as a filter, as a mask to give you an excuse to interact with someone else while in fact what you're actually talking to is your own higher self right now.

---

### Question 3: Lottery and Following Excitement

**Questioner:** I've been visualizing myself winning the lottery. So I can be rich and not have to work anymore.

**Bashar:** Why would you not want to work anymore?

**Questioner:** I just don't really want to work my job that I work right now.

**Bashar:** Why don't you do something else then? You have a belief system that will not allow you to change because you do not think that what excites you can support you.

**Questioner:** I think it can. I just think it would be hard.

**Bashar:** Why do you believe that it would be hard? How does that belief serve you? And where did you get it from? Doesn't belong to you. You should give it back. Not nice to steal other people's beliefs. Why are you holding on to the belief that it's hard for your excitement, your music to support you? If you truly do what excites you in the moment with full integrity and with no expectation, and you simply act on whatever you can act on, and take it as far as you can take it until you can take it no further, and then act on the next most exciting thing you can act on, whatever things you have in that day the ability to do, whatever timing that day gives you, then that's all you need to do that day. And whatever you don't have time for, you didn't need to do that day. Because it is the organizing principle. It will bring you the excitement in the order in which it needs to happen to actually represent the path of least resistance to all your excitement. As long as you get out of your way and your expectations and say, "This has nothing to do with that. This is not connected. How can that possibly lead to this?" If you allow yourself to get all that out of the way, the excitement will show you how it's all connected.

---

### Question 4: Resistance and Success

**Questioner:** What is at the core of my resistance?

**Bashar:** Resistance to what?

**Questioner:** To my future self. To my success.

**Bashar:** What does success mean? Remember, if at first you don't succeed, redefine success. Because the definition of success you may be holding on to may not be right for you. What is your definition of success?

**Questioner:** Succeeding at my business.

**Bashar:** Whenever any of you say "I guess," then I'm not going to believe what you say. Where's your conviction? Your business. What is your business? And is it exciting?

**Questioner:** It is very exciting. It's a clothing and art boutique featuring Connecticut fashion designers.

**Bashar:** And why does this excite you?

**Questioner:** Because there's no other place like it and it's mine.

**Bashar:** Being that it is yours and being that there is no other place like it and being that you really enjoy doing it, aren't you already a success?

**Questioner:** Yes. But...

**Bashar:** Is there a butt attached to that?

**Questioner:** Yes, there's a however.

**Bashar:** Oh, fancy butt.

**Questioner:** However, not at the stage or where I'd like it to be.

**Bashar:** How would it look that's different from how it looks now?

**Questioner:** It would look the same.

**Bashar:** Well, then what's the difference? You just said there was a difference and then you said it would look the same.

**Questioner:** I would feel more secure financially.

**Bashar:** Oh, there's that financial security again. More secure. You're saying you are secure, but you would like to be more secure. How can you be more secure than secure? Actually, the difficulty is coming from you and your semantics. Are you secure?

**Questioner:** I am.

**Bashar:** Then you can be differently secure perhaps, but you will never be more secure. It will always change. It will grow. It will expand. It can do many things. It will take different forms. It will be different nows. And as you imagine yourself doing this, if you see the future you in your imagination doing something differently than what you're doing now, then by all means, if you like what you see, mirror that version of you, and you will attract that different idea, that different expression of what excites you. But if you know you're already secure, then you will simply understand that your security may express itself in different ways, but you can never be more secure than secure. You are secure. Period. A difference which makes no difference is no difference. To be secure is to be secure. You cannot be more than secure. That's like saying I want to be more than infinite. Infinite is infinite. Well, that makes no sense. Exactly. And neither does being more secure. If you're secure, you're secure. If you're not secure, then yes, you could become secure, but there is either secure or not. There is not more secure.

**Questioner:** I become frustrated because I know the things I could be doing... I'd like to change the face of my town.

**Bashar:** You are making a difference because you're a different person. Remember, every single one of you already has by your very existence all the impact you will ever have in your reality. You already have all the impact you will ever have by acting on certain things. You will express and reveal the impact you're already having, but you will not have more impact than you already have because you already have 100% impact just by existing. The whole point of acting on your joy is to reveal the difference you're already making, to have it manifest in a physical reflection. It doesn't mean that you didn't have the impact before. It simply revealed the impact you were having.

**Questioner:** I'd like them to be happy.

**Bashar:** And how would they be happy if you're not providing them an example of what being happy is?

**Questioner:** I'm doing that.

**Bashar:** Are you? Are you unhappy that they're not?

**Questioner:** Yes, it's frustrating.

**Bashar:** Then you are not happy. Thus, you are only giving them an example of frustration. So, what else can you expect them to be? Be the example you want to see in your world. And then your world will always have that energy at least by your example. And then you have to allow them to choose what they prefer to choose. Otherwise, you are not being unconditional in your love.

---

### Question 5: Pet Passing

**Questioner:** This summer my beloved pet, my dog Max, passed. I'm checking in on him to see where he is, who he's with.

**Bashar:** Where do they go? Whatever they want. Is he with somebody familiar?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Who?

**Questioner:** Grandmother.

**Bashar:** You understand you are still connected. Have you had dream encounters? Would you like to relax enough in order to be able to recall the dream encounters you have had and can have? Imagine yourself interacting, playing with Max. You can do this easily. As you go to sleep, simply allow yourself without the idea of the grief to simply feel the joy of interacting and playing with Max and let yourself drift off in that energy and you will remember the interactions that you're having on that level and you will know you're not cut off. You will know you're still interacting. And then Max can allow you to maximize your frequency.

---

### Question 6: Life Purpose and Direction

**Questioner:** I am having a little struggle with imagining myself in 5 years. I feel like I'm in the dark to my own purpose. I have a lot of different avenues that excite me and they all center around entertaining people and inspiring people.

**Bashar:** You see the idea is that you don't have to necessarily assume that each of those things is different. In other words, if you find that there is an umbrella excitement, then that is your highest excitement. That idea, each of those can simply be an expression of that excitement. And you can act on them to whatever degree you have the ability to act on those different expressions according to how synchronicity brings you that ability to act. And you can take turns acting on them according to what your reality shows you is a capability to take action on any one of them. If any one of them or more than one of them has an equal ability to be acted on, then it doesn't really matter which one you decide to choose first. If you choose one that won't take you that far, it will show you synchronistically to go and choose the other one. Remember that following your excitement is not only the driving engine of your life, it is also the organizing principle of your life. And your synchronicity will show you which one you need to do in what order if you simply take action on any aspect of your excitement.

**Questioner:** I guess I just feel like when I jump from one to the other, I kind of feel like I don't have a single direction. I kind of feel like I'm wasting my time a little bit.

**Bashar:** But you said the overall excitement is to entertain. So are all of those expressions, do they all fall within that umbrella? That is true. I guess I just have really like high hopes for the impact they have.

**Questioner:** I explored psychedelics such as marijuana. Different things would happen to me than other people. Such as feeling weird vibrations and seeing strange things. I hit a point where it started to really scare the living hell out of me.

**Bashar:** Congratulations. How exciting. And what did you learn from that?

**Questioner:** To not do marijuana anymore.

**Bashar:** In general, those things which the earth consciousness grows naturally for individuals to explore with respect to the idea of opening up and expanding their concept of consciousness are for the purpose of entraining you to become familiar with a certain frequency that you can then recreate on your own. They are teachers and guides, not crutches. The strongest new permission slip would simply be to redefine your reality and your excitement in a manner that serves you and simply continue to act on your excitement to the best of your ability every moment that you can. Then you will allow yourself to create the vibration that is necessary in any given moment for you to express the idea of that excitement. And that's all that's necessary. That's all you really need to do.

---

### Question 7: Oversoul Connections

**Questioner:** Earlier you were speaking about the oversoul and the number of 300,000 oversouls for this planet. It made me curious about connections we have on this planet if they tend to be within the same oversoul or sometimes not.

**Bashar:** It just depends upon the themes you are exploring and why you needed to make certain relationships and why you may have needed to have simultaneous concurrent incarnations. Sometimes you will meet them, sometimes you will not. Sometimes you will like them, sometimes you won't. So you don't usually have like a higher connection, a better connection with someone who's in your oversoul. You can, but you don't have to. It depends upon the theme of exploration that they may be reflecting to you. Sometimes what you may consider to be an enemy is actually your closest oversoul connection because they're putting you in touch with things you need to face. It just depends on the exploration of the theme and must be taken and explored on a case-by-case basis. Remember, you are all endlessly inventive and you will create all sorts of relationships to get you where you want to go. Even though on the surface it may not seem to get you there. Many times when people sometimes even in a situation seem to be pushing you away, they may in fact not be pushing you away but pushing you towards something you really need to go toward. So they can actually be your best friend even when they may seem to be acting like your worst nightmare. It just depends. You have to learn how to give meaning to it in a positive way so that you will get positive effect out of it no matter what it seems like anyone else's intention toward you might be.

**Questioner:** Do you have any words of wisdom?

**Bashar:** I just have ideas. Whether they are wise or not depends upon whether you wish to apply them or not.

**Questioner:** Do you have any ideas about the best way to be a parent of a young child in a way that you don't get in the way of their excitement?

**Bashar:** Allow yourself to be clever and creative enough to explore with the child what their greatest excitement is. And then any lesson you know it's important for them to learn, attempt to use your creativity to adapt the lesson to their excitement rather than adapting their excitement to the lesson. Let them learn what they need to learn in the way that excites them. So you in that sense must be multifaceted enough and imaginative enough to explore with them how to adapt the lesson to their excitement so that you can engage their excitement and allow them to want to learn that thing by exploring with them how they could go about learning it in the way that's most exciting for them. And interactivity is also a key. The more realistic, the more you invite them to participate in scenarios that are highly interactive where they have to problem solve in realistic scenarios, then the more they will be capable of applying their own excitement to the task. Eventually, all your school systems will do this.

---

### Question 8: Groundhog Day and Mystery Illness

**Questioner:** I've experienced Groundhog Day for about 10 years. A repetitive exploration. Things not manifesting.

**Bashar:** First of all, it is not possible for nothing to not manifest. There is always a manifestation. So, you obviously can manifest. What does that teach you? And what is that thing?

**Questioner:** A continuous illness issue such as a mystery illness. Nobody can figure out what it is.

**Bashar:** The idea here is when you make an attempt to manifest something different and it doesn't occur or the same thing occurs. How do you feel?

**Questioner:** I personally feel like I am failing because I believe in the law of attraction.

**Bashar:** Do you understand the law of attraction is really the question. Do you understand really how it works? Have you heard us talk about the idea of not basing how you feel on what happens outside you? And yet I'm very connected to what doesn't happen. Exactly. So why should it surprise you that the same thing keeps happening to show you that you're constantly basing how you feel on what happens physically instead of simply deciding how you're going to feel regardless of what happens? Because deciding that you will feel joy no matter what happens is the mark that you've actually changed, right? Not whether it happens on the outside or not. Because if you still react to the outside with disappointment and frustration, then all you're actually doing is reinforcing the fact that you actually haven't changed. Therefore, why should the outside? You see, that's the paradox. If you still react to the idea that the outside hasn't changed, then you haven't changed. Therefore, the outside can't because you haven't actually changed. The mark of true change is to behave differently. Even if the outside still looks the same, right? Then you have really changed because you don't care what the outside looks like. You just decide what you're going to be, who you're going to be, how you're going to feel. Because that's what you prefer. You don't need another reason. There is no other choice but to feel the way you prefer to feel regardless of what's going on around you. And when you do that, then you give the outside the true opportunity to reflect it to you.

Remember, many of you have over the course of years called yourselves some kind of a kindergarten. You're not. Earth is a master class. So, you are strong for choosing to be on Earth to turn that much darkness and that much difficulty into light and effortlessness. Earth is a master university. It's not a kindergarten. So, it's going to be challenging. That's all right. Because you are strong enough to handle it. That's why you chose to be on Earth. It's a master class. Never think less of yourselves. You are all graduating with a master's degree. So, it's all right if the homework is a little challenging. It's all right. You'll get through it. You'll figure it out. We have faith in you. But the question is, do I have faith?

---

### Question 9: Ascension and 2012

**Questioner:** I have a question on ascension.

**Bashar:** Ascension, which is simply the idea of the raising of your frequency.

**Questioner:** It's been said in other material that there are sweeping changes coming and they will be very noticeable.

**Bashar:** Coming. You haven't been noticing any sweeping changes in your world? It's an ongoing process that has accelerated and will continue to accelerate. When we reach the time period for ascension, is that going to be a noticeable day and night change for those who are ascending? For some, for others, no. Remember that you have ascended since yesterday? Did you notice? Every second I would assume I'm ascending. Absolutely. Did you notice? No. The greater degree of difference that you may create in your definition of ascension will make you notice, but it doesn't mean that you're actually ascending anymore than you've already been because you're constantly ascending. The idea of the vibration is that you may think you're experiencing ups and downs in life, but it isn't this. It's this. You are constantly ascending if you're exploring any of these ideas of integration at all. Sometimes you may accelerate in your ascension and thus then you may create a greater degree of difference in the vibrational feeling, a greater comparison between the last parallel reality and the new one. So you may notice the difference and say, "Oh, now I've ascended more quickly, more rapidly." You haven't. You've just allowed yourself to notice a greater degree of difference because all change is a total change. Every time you change, you're changing to a completely different reality, a completely different universe. Totality is different.

**Questioner:** Is there not a coming planetary event when there is going to be mass ascension for those who are ready to receive the light in the higher frequency as planet earth?

**Bashar:** It depends upon which earth you're talking about. Remember there are an infinite number of parallel earth realities. If that's the one you wish to experience that's the one you'll experience. Other people may not wish to experience that. So I cannot talk about that as if it is a definitive answer for a particular earth when there are a multitude of earth experiences that can be had even within the concept of ascension. So some earths will experience a particular distinct date, others will not. Others will experience a variation of these ideas.

**Questioner:** Any insight on what this earth right now will experience?

**Bashar:** This earth is gone. Which earth do you wish to experience?

**Questioner:** The earth that I wish to experience is harmony of all people.

**Bashar:** What are you doing to shift yourself to that particular parallel reality? Are you acting on your highest excitement to the best of your ability every moment?

**Questioner:** No.

**Bashar:** Well, then the idea is that the earth that you're asking about where there is a particular definitive sudden ascension of everyone is more conducive to the idea of individuals acting on their highest joy every single moment. 2012 as many of you have called it is the idea that you will be tipping the scale in a very short period between the amount of negative energy and the amount of positive energy on your planet overall. So that after that date you will find there will actually be a little bit more positive reality, the majority positive energy on your planet than there has been than negative. But that doesn't necessarily mean everything will be milk and honey the next day. It simply means that you now have tipped the scales and can use that to snowball or accelerate the experience. It depends on how each individual wishes to use that consensus reality instantaneous transition. Each individual even can use an instantaneous transition in a long stretched out way. So it just depends on what you wish to experience and how you wish to experience it and what kind of process you feel is necessary to go through to savor that transition to learn what you wish to learn. Some things you will do quickly. Some things you will take a little time to do. Enjoy the journey. In other words, because the journey is the goal, the journey is the destination. Remember, you're eternal. You're infinite. What's your hurry?

---

## Lunch Break - Dialogue Sharing Session

### Volunteer 1: Healer

**Questioner:** I got: "You have become the successful financially free healer you have desired to become by following your highest joy. Letting go of pain and frustration has allowed you to feel connections to source which helps you create the miracles that you know you are capable of. As you allow your world to unfold unhindered, you are then capable of being that which you have desired."

**Bashar:** When you wrote that, how did it feel to you? Did it feel real to you? The question then upon is will you be doing anything differently from this point forward having received that communication from your future self?

**Questioner:** The only thing I could imagine having to do would be the work to let go of the pain and the frustration. The pain and the frustration that has existed stems from unworthiness.

**Bashar:** Unworthiness seems to be a big one for many of you earth humans. But you know if you really examine it that it cannot be true that you are unworthy because you exist and creation does not in that sense create pointless things. So if it created you, if you exist, if you're a part of the big picture, which you are, then by definition you must have been worthy. You must belong otherwise you would not exist. You can all take for granted the idea that your existence itself proves your worthiness, proves that you deserve whatever you can imagine for yourselves, or you would not have been given the capacity and the ability to imagine those things to exist at all. You can begin there to allow yourself to reinforce and strengthen the concept of the fact that you are deserving and are worthy by the very fact that you exist, that you belong, you are a puzzle piece that fits into the overall picture puzzle of all that is. And if you just allow yourself to remain the shape you were created as instead of attempting to force yourself into a different shape, then you will fit in the puzzle picture exactly where you belong.

**Bashar:** In proceeding forth with your healing, is there a particular modality that excites you more than anything else to express your healing in?

**Questioner:** I want to use water as a means to actually manipulate it in such a way that it can help create healing.

**Bashar:** You will begin to do this then. You will play with this, experiment with this, explore this idea until it feels right to you. And create it in a form thus then that you can share with others on your planet. And when you attract as a healer individuals to you, should they choose to not be healed, how will you feel?

**Questioner:** It's their issue, not mine.

**Bashar:** They can always give you an opportunity to examine by what they choose to do, whether it is your issue or not. And if you are willing to examine it in total honesty and self-discernment and you come to the conclusion that there is nothing there that you really need to look at or integrate or change, then you will know that you have served them by allowing them to reinforce whatever choice they have chosen to make. Because some individuals because they have certain belief systems do not believe that they can be healed. And if they attract themselves to a healer, they may attract themselves just for the purpose of proving that no one can heal them. Thus then by not changing in your presence they will have used you to serve their belief that they cannot be healed. So you will have given them the service they came to you for.

---

### Volunteer 2: Trust and Timing

**Questioner:** I wrote: "Relax and know this dream is now. I flip leaves. Knowing I was on a synchronistic journey of total fulfillment, following my joy, trusting myself, I was led through a very distinct path that is still there now for you to follow."

**Bashar:** Do you have any concept of what that path looks like?

**Questioner:** Well, it's my highest joy. One of it is definitely meeting new people and being open to being around people. My goal is to have a child.

**Bashar:** Why is that a goal? Do you understand that if you have made an agreement with a spirit who is to become your child that the only way to stop that agreement is to spend time worrying about whether or not it will happen? The part about trust trusting myself is what I felt with that—that it was not about time it was about timing. And when you talk about the issue of trust, understand none of you have to learn how to trust. You simply have to decide what you wish to put your trust in. You all trust something to be true every moment or you wouldn't be having an experiential reality. So you don't have to learn how to trust. You just have to decide what idea you wish to put your trust in.

And of course, the idea for you may also be symbolically speaking, symbolically reflective of the idea of birthing a new you. The unconditional love that you're wanting from the child is really about unconditionally loving you. Because if you are going to have a physical child, the child has made an agreement with a particular version of you as its mother, you need to become that version of you before you will actually become the mother the child has made an agreement to be born to.

**Questioner:** There are fears that definitely come up with this.

**Bashar:** That's all right. As we said, the more you explore an expansion of consciousness, the more fears that you may have will come up because in coming up, you can deal with them. You can integrate them. You cannot have an expansion of consciousness without exploring the darkness that may be within you. Because remember all that is is all the light and all the dark. It's the positive and the negative. And the more you expand your consciousness, the more aware you will become of whatever darkness there may be. It doesn't mean you have to choose it. In fact, paradoxically, the more aware you become of what is there as a choice, if you allow that to be an equal choice to anything else, you will not put it with an extra charge. You will simply allow it to be a neutral valid choice and then you can choose what you prefer. But you will become more aware of its existence because you're becoming more aware of all that is.

**Bashar:** Do I need to flip the beliefs that are fears as they come up? Yes, you work with them. But first you must own them. You cannot change what you do not own. The idea is not to ignore or suppress. The idea is to acknowledge that you have the belief that is generating the fear because remember you cannot have a feeling without first believing something to be true. So once you have the feeling, the feeling helps you get in touch with what the belief is that has been up to this point unconscious that you can now make conscious by asking yourself the question: what would I have to believe is true in order to feel this way? And once you identify the belief, it is now conscious. Thus, no longer a habit. Thus, no longer a pattern, which is only something you do that you don't know you're doing. So when you make it conscious, it's no longer a habit. It's no longer a pattern. Making a belief consciously aware is the end of the process of letting go of the habit, not the beginning.

---

### Volunteer 3: Freedom and Purpose

**Questioner:** I said: "5 years from now, I am free to travel and visit anywhere I choose to. I am able to take all my experience and channeled information to everyone who chooses to read or listen to it. I have a home base in Egypt where I can work at the ancient sites that are relevant to my work. I have a passion working with children that I will use to help them to consciously understand who they really are and how to manifest what they want while they're here. The information I bring through not only helps individuals but also helps groups to understand one another through appreciation and tolerances for differences."

**Bashar:** How does that feel to you?

**Questioner:** It feels like I'm there.

**Bashar:** Question is, are you here?

**Questioner:** It's the bridge that I have to learn to let the ego let go of how it's all going to happen.

**Bashar:** Do you understand that the physical mind, which is in a sense tantamount to what you call the ego structure, doesn't actually have the ability to know how it's going to happen? You have to learn how to negotiate with it. You have to learn to give it something. You have to learn to let it know that you appreciate it, that it's doing its job, but that's all it has to do. So that it doesn't have to bear the weight of the world on its little shoulders, which are not designed to carry that weight. You have to be nice to it. You have to treat it well.

**Questioner:** Can you give me a way to differentiate when it's the channeled information I'm receiving versus the ego trying to give information?

**Bashar:** Ask yourself the question, do I really need to know this now? Do you trust the idea that memory is created in the present? Do you understand the idea that you will simply know what you need to know when you need to know it and trust how your life unfolds to bring you the information when you need it? When you do that, send the ego a message that it's going to benefit greatly from this in a partnership with you. That you're not tricking it. You're not hiding anything. You're not trying to annihilate it. You're not trying to kill it. It won't die. You are letting it do the job it was designed to do and you're working in partnership with it so that it will be eager to receive this information in the way it comes and know that it doesn't have to control and micromanage every little thing. Every idea that you have separated yourself into can now be brought back into a holistic partnership where everything benefits. If you cannot seem to convince your ego structure of that, look for the belief deep within you that defines this idea in a negative way as if the ego is going to lose out. Because as soon as the ego feels it's going to lose out, it will try to hold on to anything that it can and it will constrict the flow of energy. So, it's all about really letting it know you unconditionally love it. You thank it for the job that it's doing that it was designed to do and it's going to benefit greatly by working in partnership with the higher mind as well and that it's going to take the weight off its shoulders so it doesn't have to be quite so tired.

**Bashar:** Sit down, literally physically sit down and write out, literally write out a contract between you and your ego. And state therein what the job is. Just like in any contract, this is your responsibility. This is my responsibility. We agree to this. We agree to that. Sign here. Done deal. Anytime you physicalize things like that, because you are all so used to the concept that physical reality is solid and real, anytime you actually physicalize something like that, you will make it seem more real to you than just keeping it in your head. Get it out physically in front of you. So you will have a piece of paper. And anytime the ego acts up, contract, lookie lookie, you agreed. Rattle rattle rattle the paper. Do it physically because that's what you're used to doing. Thus, you will put more stock in it. So, use the limitation in an unlimited way, creatively.

---

### Volunteer 4: Completion

**Questioner:** I haven't written anything down because the communication was very short and surprising. My future self told me that there is no completion to me in the present from the future self when the future events will happen. And it moved towards me where I am in the present and completed what I felt was missing.

**Bashar:** What it showed you what the future self actually reflected to you is that you are all at any given moment for whatever you're defining yourself to be at that moment you are that thing completely already. Congratulations for creating a surprise for yourself because the future self is full of surprises. It also made the I still can want future events, but they're independent of me being complete. But you do not need to want. The idea is that they're all here. All you need to do is be the vibration by acting as the future self and you will experience that reality more and more in the present. You don't need to want. Remember, if you focus on wanting, then what you simply get is a reality where you continue to want things because that's the primary energy you're focusing on. If you actually know that something is here and now, then you can experience it in the present. This is why we always say prayer needs to be in present tense. It's not "I want this." It is "I have this. Thank you." Prayer is gratitude. It's an attitude of gratitude for what you actually already have so that you can learn to identify with the vibration that it does already exist and start to really incorporate and feel and experience the idea that it is here and now and not somewhere out there needing to come to you from some nebulous future.

---

### Volunteer 5: Love and Books

**Questioner:** In 2015 I will be in love and proud of my husband. My books will be on the New York Times bestseller list. The oil brokering has provided me with excitement and all the money I want. Enough money to play in the movie financing business. My state of mind is peaceful, joyful, and appreciative.

**Bashar:** Is the movie financing business more exciting than the oil brokering?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Then why aren't you simply doing that?

**Questioner:** I feel like I need a safety net.

**Bashar:** You are honoring the belief systems that you have and that is fine. At the same time, you can also let go of some of those beliefs so that you can spend more time doing what you really love to do and less time not doing what you don't. You can also in a sense in terms of movies start smaller. Then why not start at a level that you are not that far from or already have the ability to finance and just make it the most powerful movie you can make it at that level. Do you understand the concept of our definition of abundance? Having enough to do what you want to do is what I think it is. No. Not having enough. The ability to do what you need to do when you need to do it. So, the idea is that abundance can come in many forms as long as it simply gives you the ability to do what you need to do. Even though you are saying you prefer not to have financing from another person, other people could simply volunteer or donate their time, couldn't they? So how do you know you don't have more resources than you think you do already to make the movie? It would be our suggestion that you begin to take some action to explore whether or not that's already true instead of assuming that you simply don't have the ability to make the movie.

---

### Volunteer 6: Unworthiness

**Questioner:** In my future self, I am having fun and life is very sweet.

**Bashar:** Are you not having fun now?

**Questioner:** At moments I am, at moments I'm not.

**Bashar:** Please by all means go right ahead and have more fun. You can be her by loving myself totally. And what is stopping you from doing that? I am doing that. You are part of why I'm here. Then why would you need to be told that you need to do that? There are moments of unworthiness as well. Then you're not doing it. Not totally. Thank you for your honesty. There are moments where I'm loving myself totally and there moments all right. But we're not talking about those moments. We're talking about the moments where you're not. And in those moments where you're not, why aren't you? When your future self says in those moments it would be beneficial for you to love yourself unconditionally, why are you not?

**Questioner:** The belief that I'm not worthy or that I haven't chosen to be here or just a resistance. Not feeling loved by the universe.

**Bashar:** I know you say that we are the fact that we are here is the fact that we're loved. But you see, it's more than that. Because the fact that you're able to believe you're not loved is proof that you are because you're allowed to do anything you want. Even believe you're not supported and not loved. That should tell you how supported and loved you are. That you're allowed to believe you're not.

**Questioner:** That feels like a mental thing. It doesn't feel like a heart thing.

**Bashar:** When you make it a hard thing is when you will really be the future self. Keep doing what you're doing that you don't like doing until you're so sick and tired of it you stop doing it. Find a brick wall. Bang your head against it as many times as you wish until you are so tired and so dizzy and have such a headache that you finally give up what you don't prefer. Obviously, you are not yet tired enough of not being your true self. Otherwise, you would be your true self. I'm my true self. Done. Now, will you continue to behave as if you are or when something comes up, will you once again think that somehow you're failing? Or will you take the ideas that come up that may be representative of negative beliefs and will you use them as the future self would as positive learning lessons to find out more about who you are and be excited and curious to find out what those negative beliefs are so you can add their energy to your overall joy? Because as soon as you become excited about finding something you don't prefer within yourself, then it's not a negative experience anymore. You're excited about it. It's like, "Oh, look, a negative belief. Happy day. I get to discover more of myself."

---

### Volunteer 7: Lawsuit

**Questioner:** I asked her how she got to where she's at five years. She told me that she owned all aspects of the situation that's currently going on as her reality creation, that she was not a victim. She decided what she wanted. And then she stood up and stood her ground. And what she believed was fair in her truth. So then she trusted 100% in the knowing that she would be supported through the entire process. No matter what that was. And knew that the outcome would be perfect for what she needed to do to create her life work and her joy. She viewed every task and interaction that she had to do to complete the process as an opportunity for growth and as exciting.

**Bashar:** Do you consider yourself to be extremely different from that or are you closing in on that?

**Questioner:** I think it's starting to close in.

**Bashar:** You gave yourself a threshold of believability time frame. What was it in terms of being that version of you?

**Questioner:** Two months.

**Bashar:** Does that feel good? Does that feel doable?

**Questioner:** I'd actually like it to be sooner. Do you believe it can be sooner? No.

**Bashar:** You see, when I said even a microsecond of hesitation means no. So that's all right. But why do you care that it should be sooner? Why is two months not soon enough?

**Questioner:** I feel icky and drained when I'm in the energy of what I'm having to do right now, which is in the middle of a lawsuit.

**Bashar:** A lawsuit doesn't fit very well, does it? Do you need to have the lawsuit tailored? Is this something you feel you actually need to continue in order to stand up for yourself or are there other ways that you can stand up for yourself in terms of expressing fairness? Can your imagination provide you something that is more of an equally balanced win-win situation without necessarily succumbing to a system you don't believe that you should be dragged through?

**Questioner:** An option would be to lower what I made the choice to be and to trust that it will be made up in other areas the moment I disengage myself from what I'm pursuing. Do you believe that that's possible that you will get what you need from other sources? No.

**Bashar:** Why is it all or nothing in this? Why is it I have to grab everything I can or I'll have nothing? Why do you believe that? Obviously, you don't prefer to believe that because it's not working for you. But then I feel like I'm caving when I should be standing strong. And when you say I feel like I'm caving, that means you believe what? In order to feel like I'm caving, I must believe that I'm not strong enough to stand up for what I've made the choice to stand up for. And if you decide that the original choice you made is not in alignment with your preference, are you not willing to change it? Or do you think you're going to look foolish for doing so?

**Questioner:** Yes, I think I'm going to look foolish for doing so.

**Bashar:** And what kind of a belief do you have that says you've got to hold on to something that doesn't work for you? Because if you change it at all to something that does, you're going to look like a fool. Does that work for you? No, that's foolish. Exactly. Paradoxically, you are actually creating what you are afraid to create, right? Looking foolish by holding on to something that isn't you instead of just changing it to something you know is right. So, you already have achieved the foolishness. So, what else is left? Why not let it go and arrange a different idea of what a win-win situation is in this context?

Remember sometimes many of you think that you're standing up for yourselves, that you're being your own person, but if you're doing it by the rules of someone else's game, you're actually still being controlled by them. Rebelling is actually being controlled by the other person's belief systems because you're attempting to push their thing away, thinking that makes you independent when in fact it securely anchors you to their game because you're playing by their rules instead of just letting it wash through you as if it had nothing to do with you. You follow and come up with your own way of responding that is more in accord with your reality, your game. And then you give them the choice to be befuddled by your response.

---

### Volunteer 8: Movement and Expression

**Questioner:** I got: "Express through your body your experience present at all times. Listen to your body's sensations without judgment. Vital current information allow body to move any way it wants. This includes making sound or not."

**Bashar:** How do you feel about those instructions from the future self? Does that mean they are clear enough for you to take action on them and incorporate them into your reality in the present tense?

**Questioner:** Even since I got this, I've been taking action. By moving my body and letting it express.

**Bashar:** Are you talking about dance or something different?

**Questioner:** Just very perhaps dance but very in the moment. Allowing the body to move the way it wants. There's fear there of looking silly. And going out of control.

**Bashar:** So what? So what? And also remember paradoxically that if you actually allow the natural movement to occur by definition you cannot go out of control. By definition if it's truly the natural movement. If it is the product of the fear, the constriction on the body from the fear will actually paradoxically allow you to experience being out of control. Natural movement, true natural movement in a being cannot by definition be out of control. This is why in our reality on my planet, everyone is allowed to be the full individual that they are. Because we know that when every individual is allowed to be the fullest individual they are and act in the most natural way for them, they automatically harmonize and synchronize with every other natural individual. And no one can be out of control. And it all works. Just the opposite of the idea on your planet where you think letting everyone be themselves would lead to anarchy. In fact, it's just the opposite. The thing that leads to anarchy is that you're out of practice being your true self and you constantly bump into each other, attempting to be what you think you're supposed to be, but are not actually naturally expressing. Everything fits. Everything in creation fits. So when you are your natural self, you automatically fit with anyone you come in contact with who is also being their natural self.

**Questioner:** Why do you care what they think? Because I have so much practice caring what people think.

**Bashar:** And so, by having that practice now and being such an expert at it, are you done with that or are you not done with that? Have you not mastered that idea yet? You have already mastered the idea of caring what other people think. This doesn't mean you can't take advice from people who care about you. And it doesn't mean you can't even take advice from people who don't care about you. But the idea is that it's your choice.

**Questioner:** I think there's sensations that I'm very afraid of, such as shaking and electrical.

**Bashar:** Seems like fun to us. What's there to be afraid of? Don't you go on amusement park rides to be shaken around? Maybe you ought to try. Maybe a little roller coaster in your life would be a good thing. The only reason you feel overly stimulated is because you're putting such restrictions on the idea of allowing yourself to be stimulated. So of course when you put those limitations on yourself, anything beyond that is going to seem like and be experienced as over stimulation. But when you allow yourself to know that the energy that flows through you and the movements that result from that natural flow when you allow it to be natural, it will be appropriate to the situation and it will not in a sense evolve into overstimulation. It will regulate itself. Why? Because excitement is the driving engine and the organizing principle. Thus then it will organize itself in such a way that it will express itself exactly as it needs to. No more. No less. Over stimulation is the product of imposing too many limitations upon your natural self. It's resistance to the natural self. So when you resist the natural self, the idea is that then when you attempt to become your natural self, there may be a momentary overcompensation because of the limitation you have imposed. But if you let go of the limitation, there's no need for an overcompensation. It'll regulate itself. It'll mellow out. Then it will be smooth and flowing and natural and easy and also beautiful to others.

---

### Volunteer 9: Future Home

**Questioner:** I will be in a place I call home where community will come and go for healing with my partner who shares the same passion as me, surrounded by family. There I will have animals to assist in the healing process. I will have the freedom to come and go wherever I am led to to be taught or teach. I will be open to a new baby with this partner.

**Bashar:** I would like to make one suggestion for you. At your leisure whenever you wish, sit down, rewrite all of the exact thing you just said, but make it present tense. Not "I will," "I am." Because it is the future self-talking, not you. In the present. So thus then when you say "I am," it'll reinforce the future self vibration in the present. Because you already are these things.

**Bashar:** Where does the future self live? Why don't you ask? The next time you have a dialogue, ask the future self, where do you live? You must understand you can actually begin to use your imagination to create a true two-way dialogue here. You can ask questions and get answers in the same way you would write a letter to a friend. Write a letter or an email if you wish. To your future self, where do you live? Listen for the answer and write it out. See if the future self will simply tell you what place represents the vibration of your highest joy. So that by doing your highest joy, you are doing it the way that is most exciting, where it is most exciting, with whom it is most exciting. So that you have a complete picture of it and don't do it piecemeal which is not your whole excitement.

**Bashar:** Remember that when you talk about the idea of having this vision and this dialogue, remember the idea we said that the image you get does not necessarily have to literally come true in order for your higher mind to bring you what feels exactly the same. It may not contain all of the components that your mind actually said it wants, but it will feel the same if you trust that your higher mind can bring you what will feel the same. And if it feels the same, you won't care that it looks different. It might look the same. Sometimes it does, but it may not. So don't insist that every component you imagine must be there in the way you actually originally imagined it because your physical mind does not necessarily have the capability of knowing what that really needs to look like. But the higher mind does.

**Questioner:** I think that's why I always have trouble writing those specific details because everything that has always happened in my life has always, you know, like I wanted to see a snake one day and I got a snake skin and it was so cool but it wasn't a snake.

**Bashar:** The idea again is it doesn't stop you from writing those things. We are just simply saying you can create the vision but understand it's just a symbol. So don't have expectation that it must come to fruition exactly in the same way because the way it does happen will provide you with what you actually need.

---

### Volunteer 10: Move to Nevada

**Questioner:** I've been getting a very strong urge of moving. I want to move to the Nevada region.

**Bashar:** Then that means you will take whatever action you are able to take to allow yourself to show that that is representative of your excitement. If that means wallpapering your house with scenes of Nevada. Do this with no expectation. Do it only because it is representative of your joy with no expectation for how it must come to fruition. That's how you keep it in balance. That's how you keep it moving. The second you put that expectation on it, you freeze the whole thing. Just let it keep moving. Let it be an experience. Let it be a process. Enjoy the process. Enjoy the experience without the idea that it has to come to a particular conclusion because a conclusion is only a step toward another process. It's all one thing. It's never really an ending.

**Questioner:** Why Nevada? Why are you excited about that area?

**Bashar:** It's always been that I knew I was supposed to go by the mountains. I feel an alien connection there.

**Bashar:** Is that exciting?

**Questioner:** Very.

**Bashar:** So then I've been becoming involved in doing a different type of healing modality which is more shamanic sound. I feel there that I'm supposed to be there's a desire to help make it easier for certain people to come into their ET connection. Then my next little dilemma but I'mma but it's because of today I'm getting clarity.

**Bashar:** Challenge, not dilemma. Challenge. Unless you want it to be a dilemma.

**Questioner:** I have a very strong desire to live simply and comfortably.

**Bashar:** Those are the words they gave me comfortable. I was using the wrong terminology. It was causing a lot of stress. Just not aligned with it. Exactly.

---

### Volunteer 11: Costa Rica

**Questioner:** This is what I saw. I am standing at my kitchen door of my home in Costa Rica. Ocean breeze is blowing in my face. My love is next to me with his arms around me. We are in conversation about planning the next year. Where will we perform our music? Which charities will we form? The world is our playground. Music is our tool of transformation.

**Bashar:** Does this feel real to you?

**Questioner:** Completely.

**Bashar:** Then you're going to create in the now whatever aspect of this you can begin to create.

**Bashar:** When will you move to the Rich Coast?

**Questioner:** Costa Rica? Yes. Rich Coast. When will you move?

**Bashar:** What does future self say?

**Questioner:** 2013.

**Bashar:** Are you willing thus then in incorporating the vibration that this image represents willing to incorporate that vibration with no expectation that it has to look exactly as you pictured it?

**Questioner:** Absolutely. Because I'm open to how it's going to be manifested because you trust yourself. And I do and I'm excited. I'm enjoying this process. Enjoying this journey.

**Bashar:** Yes, it's exciting. My passion is music. And what do you play?

**Questioner:** I'm a pianist and a singer.

**Bashar:** Do you do this as often as you wish to?

**Questioner:** That's a good question. Hesitation. My higher self's been telling me, "Come on now, you need to be at the piano more often." And I said, "Yes, you're right." And I promise I will. And who are you promising to myself?

**Bashar:** If for some reason you find that for a moment you break your promise, is that going to spiral you downward?

**Questioner:** No. I'll be authentic about it.

**Bashar:** So you are going to allow yourself to play music to whatever degree is truly representative of your joy then.

**Questioner:** Starting. I already have started. Thank you.

---

### Volunteer 12: Speaking

**Questioner:** I wrote: "Speaking, communicating around the world, scheduled but not fully planned. Starting pet projects to show what is possible alone, no permanency. Need kids settled in school or someone else to take care of them. Speaking in small venues and new places, proactive marketing. Find other people to help. Accept money and help. Don't judge or assume about the people you meet. A new partner, long hair, soft clothes, shed attachments, physical places, show possibilities, and stay grounded so that other people can relate to you."

**Bashar:** What degree of difference do you believe exists between yourself here and that idea?

**Questioner:** Not very much.

**Bashar:** You have all those things? What do you speak about? No, I don't speak. Thank you. Really? Yes. Then that is a difference. What would you like to speak about? What excites you to speak about?

**Questioner:** To show people their own personal possibilities.

**Bashar:** What does that mean? Can you put your unique spin on them and make them exciting and interesting for you? Then if you make them exciting and interesting for you, they will be exciting and interesting to others who wish to receive your particular way of expressing those ideas. There are no one-sided coins. Do you understand this saying? It means that if you have the head, somewhere there must be the tail. It means that if you have a gift to give, somewhere there must be someone waiting to receive it or you wouldn't have been excited to give that thing because there are no pointless creations. Whatever unique spin you wish to put that's exciting to you on whatever it is you wish to speak about, however you speak about it, someone wants to hear it exactly that way. So, don't hesitate because someone's waiting to hear what you have to say about that.

**Questioner:** When will you start speaking? The number I heard 6 months.

**Bashar:** You believe you are fully capable of speaking of the things that are exciting for you to speak of within six months of your time?

**Questioner:** It's a stretch.

**Bashar:** It's a stretch means no. If you don't prefer that answer without judging it, then you can ask yourself the question we suggested you all ask. What would I have to believe is true in order for it to take six months? And then by answering that question, you can find out what the belief is that is making it take six months. And by assimilating and integrating that idea, that belief, you can allow the time to reduce. Unless whatever time you finally reduce it to that can't be further reduced is exactly the amount of time that needs to happen for the full process to be fully appreciated by the giver and the receiver. Do you trust it? Do you trust the timing?

**Questioner:** My limiting belief is that I can't achieve. I have a fear that I cannot do what I believe. Because I feel that somehow I will be abandoning my children.

**Bashar:** How so? Let me ask you a question then. In your mind, is there in any way, shape, or form, possibly a definition of life, a definition of your reality that would allow you to do what's exciting to you and at the same time be perfectly where you need to be for your children? Can you imagine that at all? Then why isn't that possible? And why isn't that your definition? Because I have to redefine how it's done. I'm using other people's definition. It's not working. So, will you create the definition that works for you? Will you believe in it? Well, yes, because it's my definition. Is it as simple as that? Because I know how sometimes you people like to complicate things. Maybe you should speak about how easy it is for people on your planet to complicate things since you obviously know a lot about it. That's a good topic to start with. How to simplify the complications. How to redefine reality that works for you. How about that?

---

### Volunteer 13: Art Flags

**Questioner:** Five years from now, I am speaking with clarity, grace, and great power about joy in creativity. The ideas birthed by my art project are well established, have caught in the zeitgeist and spawned a new creative consciousness for celebrating diversity in harmony. I move further into creative celebration of the divine. I am acknowledged and rewarded for contributing to the light. Every day is an adventure. Every encounter is an encounter with the divine. I am free in full glow flow of new word abundance and love.

**Bashar:** What is your art?

**Questioner:** I make American flags that celebrate diversity. I have about 33 of them now.

**Bashar:** Do you live in the area on your planet called New York? Then you are in the right place vibrationally for your work. I made a small film about spirituality in New York City and I'd like to make a feature-length film. Go right ahead. One of which could be a simple documentary on your art. Does that excite you? Why? Making a documentary on your art will give you a kick in the ass. I love that. It will be very exciting for many people. Good. Does that help you? I hadn't actually thought of that. Yes, you had. I'm just reminding you. Remember, you're talking to your own future self.

---

### Volunteer 14: General Questions

**Questioner:** If an Earth human were on your planet, could we thrive by breathing your atmosphere and gravity?

**Bashar:** It would take some adjustment but yes. We have higher rate of oxygen, slightly lower idea of gravity, but you could get used to it.

**Questioner:** What percentage of planets in this universe have such an atmosphere and gravitic status?

**Bashar:** In general as a statistical average of all the planets we have visited about 15% to 17%.

**Questioner:** Are there a greater or lesser number of planets outside of Pluto's orbit than inside of it?

**Bashar:** There are a greater number inside, but there are a couple outside that you have not yet discovered.

**Questioner:** How many planets in this solar system feature intelligent sentient beings other than planet Earth?

**Bashar:** None. In other realms, there are a few. If you're talking about the simultaneity of coexistence, Mars in that sense in what you call the past had sentient life. Once the idea was created that there would be a destruction, asteroidal destruction of the ecological biosphere, then there was no more possibility of incarnation as you know it. So those souls decided to incarnate upon the earth. Also, there was another system in the planet that did at one time have incarnational sentient life.

**Questioner:** Is that what some people used to refer to as Maldek? Yes.

**Questioner:** Since what we refer to as the 1980s, are we progressing toward contact more or less rapidly than you expected?

**Bashar:** If you know us, you know we have no expectation. But we understand the idea of probability and we will simply say that the probability has increased.

**Questioner:** There's been some talk that we are controlled or manipulated and that it truly is not earth humans' planet.

**Bashar:** It is in that sense a historic fact from our point of view that the original hominid species that evolved naturally on your planet was genetically altered by an extraterrestrial race. That doesn't mean it's not your planet. The idea is that you have chosen to incarnate on earth and in that context it makes it your world. And when we say your world, what we are actually saying is it's your reality, your agreement, your co-creation. Make of it what you wish.

**Questioner:** I think I speak for a lot of people when I say this is the first chance that we have had in this embodiment to actually speak to an intelligent being from another world and that's a pretty heavy responsibility.

**Bashar:** We prefer the idea that it is an experience of light rather than being something too heavy duty.

---

### Question 15: Intelligence and Themes

**Questioner:** Is there a degree of intelligence that goes along with a chosen theme to get that mission accomplished or is there an unlimited source of intelligence available?

**Bashar:** In a sense, there is an unlimited source of intelligence available, but only so much of it is relevant to the theme you're exploring in that particular reality. So, you can access anything, but it may not filter all the way through if it's not relevant for that reality or that theme. That is the reason why so many people just have different degree of intelligence at least showing on the outside expression of it.

**Questioner:** If somebody else wanted to really tap into it they would be able to tap into it.

**Bashar:** Yes.

---

### Question 16: Power

**Questioner:** I want to speak to you about power. I'm looking for you to offer me a new definition of power. I have a job where I tell people what to do. I exude a lot of power. Everyone in my personal life listens to what I say and do what I say. Inside I feel very small and very scared of the world and no power whatsoever. I feel that if I'm more powerful, I'll be hurting people.

**Bashar:** If you are hurting people, that's not power. True power, the greatest power, requires the lightest touch because it is so powerful. It doesn't need to exert force. If it exerts force, it is not power. It is an expression of powerlessness. Because anything that needs to exert force to convince someone else of something is only attempting to convince themselves of the power. If you really have a powerful point of view, you need the slightest suggestion. People will understand or if they don't understand you can through dialogue, through engagement, through co-interaction express the idea in such a way as to define whether or not that person is in alignment with the expression of power or not. If they are not in alignment with the expression of true power which does not require force, then you can recognize that the vibration may not be compatible and you can let them go find something that is more compatible for them. If however they understand your expression of power which needs to be in that sense very light because it doesn't need to force itself, it comes with assurance, it comes with conviction but it is also open. It is also open to sharing, open to interacting, open to receiving suggestions and advice. Open to working together as a whole in a win-win situation for all. Guiding, yes, suggesting, yes, in that sense, but not doineering, not forcing, because that's not power. Power is creative. It takes no power to destroy. Build a tower of blocks, that's creative. Knock it down, doesn't take any effort at all. That's not power. But the idea is that true power paradoxically only requires a light touch if it is true power. The dichotomy on your planet is that so many people for so long have succumbed to the illusion of power, but now you're learning to use the power of the illusion. You see the difference? Does this help you?

**Questioner:** Is it really about just being the person I am and trusting that? But then how do you get people to do what you want them to do?

**Bashar:** What does a true leader do? Inspire others. You understand that's power—that you can generate inspiration in others. Allow others to get excited with you about what's going on and how you all benefit, how everyone wins including those that you serve. Power is being of service. By being yourself.

---

### Final Words

You are multi-dimensional beings. Once you begin to plug even into 100th of 1% of what you really are, you will begin to truly understand what your nature is. Multileveled. The idea of what you really are cannot be expressed in your language. You can only experience and feel it as it filters into your reality and whatever terminology, whatever way, whatever symbols and representations you are willing to create that make it comprehensible to you, but you are in that sense in total an incomprehensible being by any stretch of the imagination. You can call upon any aspect of it that you wish that is relevant for the experience you have chosen to create. You are truly the epitome of the word freedom.

Everything is made of the same one thing. And creation is an explosion of ecstatic self-reflection. An ecstatic explosion of awareness and synchronicity. It is the expression of the self in all the ways it can be expressed. Every single one of you is another point of view that all that is has of itself experiencing itself in all the ways that it can. Every single moment is the same now moment experienced from a different point of view infinitely on and on and on without end, without beginning. You are existence itself. Existence is your playground. You are made of consciousness. Be who you wish to be.

---

## Holotope Meditation

**Bashar:** We will begin with the idea of a specific meditation that will help crystallize your connection to the idea of future self. Everything being coexistent simultaneously really means that you have an infinite number of probable future selves. You are not just an individual but a corporation of individuals. You are an amalgamation, a blend and a combination of infinite varieties of interactions between individuals on many planes, many parallel realities, many dimensions of experience.

This is all for the purpose this day, this transmission, this frequency, this vibration, this state of being for allowing you to recrystallize the neurological pathways of your body, your atomic structure, your DNA in such a way as to set up a vibratory pattern that is sympathetic to and attractive of more communication, more awareness of the communication going on between you and all these other variants. Not only the future selves but simultaneously coexisting present selves, what you call past selves, all these things that coexist simultaneously so that you can enhance and increase your awareness of all the communication, all the information going on between you and all these other variants of your being.

Allow yourself to begin to relax. You may keep your eyes open, but lower the lights and begin the process now of your sound and sight of this formation, this lattice work that is reflective of your structure, your consciousness, your neurological pathways. Allow yourself to begin to relax and just enjoy the colors, the shapes that you see that present themselves to you, the things that stand out, the things that we see. Let it simply permeate your being, your consciousness. Just let it in. Just relax. You do not have to try to make this work. Just know that as you allow yourself to let this experience sink in, to absorb it into every cell of your being, every fiber of your body, every atom, you simply take on the characteristics, the frequency that is necessary for clear communication to make you a more receptive antenna for clear communication between all the cells you need to connect to, to give you all the information you need to allow your life to unfold in a magical, mystical, joyful, creative way.

Let yourself feel what each and every one of those strands in the design represents—a connection to another parallel self, future self, an infinite number of experiences for you to draw upon. Let yourself feel each and every one of those strings as if it is a chord being plucked and vibrating, playing an orchestration, a tune. And that vibration, that collective signature vibration humming within you, activating your neurological net, allowing the neurological pathways of your brain to crystallize and coalesce and align to allow for smooth transmission, smooth reception of all information necessary to exchange, to allow you to become more present, more of who you are, and to remember and recall and integrate more of your total being with physical mind, higher mind, past, present and future self beyond this life in all realities in all time and all space.

You will draw upon exactly what you need when you need it. Be open to all inspiration and message, all sharing and all ideas that will be there for the purpose of benefiting you to become more of who and what you are. To express that through certainty and conviction and joy and creativity in the moment. In the now that your life becomes one moment experienced from all points of view that create the different moments.

As you shift from parallel reality to parallel reality billions of times a second and become more and more aware of all the connections from all the parallel realities, as you align your neurological pathways, your atomic structure, your vibratory energy, as you begin to identify, imagine what you are looking at is literally a mirror of your consciousness. That is your reflection. Your true reflection as a being of energy, as a lattice work of intelligence. You are seeing a true aspect, a true nature of who and what you are as energy, as vibration, as resonance. As light, as sound. And as sure as light and sound form everything you know, everything you experience as what you call your physical reality.

Along those cords and strings and paths and conduits of light and sound comes all the knowledge and all the inspiration and all the information that you need that you contain. You contain it all. It's all within you. Imagine yourself stretching out from your central core from your solar plexus lines of light, bright, brilliant light in all directions connecting to all other variations of the oversoul that you are an expression of, to all variants of your future self.

And remember, if your present self feels that it is having in any way, shape or form any difficulty in believing that these connections are real. Remember, your future self knows they are real because your future self by definition has experienced the result of knowing this is real. That these connections exist within you. Just as you in your daily lives know that when you experience something, from that point forward, you know it to be true because you have experienced it because experience is real. The only thing that is so—too your future self has experiences you have not yet had. So your future self knows that these connections are true because it has experienced the result of these connections as you will experience as you allow your life to unfold and allow your vibration to align, harmonize and synchronize with that of the future self. As you become the future self, you will incorporate the experiences of the future self, the certainty, the conviction and the knowledge that comes from experience of the future self within your fiber, within your being.

You will simply know from experience that these things are so. And it becomes true for you. And from that point forward, every action that you take, the state of being that will be natural for you will be the state of being of having already had the experience because it is the future self experience that already knows. And you will be that vibration. You will know. You've had that experience already. You will live more and more and more and more every day in every way in a total state of déjà vu.

Standing in the center of all possibility, knowing what is to come because you have already seen it as the future self. And your physical reality and space-time will become more flexible, more plastic, more malleable, will begin to dissolve its barriers and limitations to whatever degree is relevant to serve you to be more of who you are. To allow you to explore your theme in joy and creativity, to allow you to plug in and connect to all sources of information and inspiration that may be required for you to apply in your reality. Knowing that you've already done this as the future self and it comes with that certainty and conviction of already having done it—of déjà vu. You've already seen it. You've already done it. It's here. It's now. It's part of you. It is you. You know it to be true. As you know anything to be true that has already been experienced by you. You are one with that frequency, one with that resonance, one with that vibration.

There is only now. The future is now. You are the future. You, not will be, not one day, not maybe. You are the future you now. You will always be becoming a new future you, but every moment you will be the future you, connected to all other aspects of your being as you need them. Again, not a second before, but not a second after. Exactly. Perfectly timed, synchronistically timed. A perfectly functioning, resonant intelligence drawing upon all aspects of itself that it needs. Being its whole self, interacting with itself, loving itself, feeling itself, knowing itself as one, pulsing symphony of light and life.

As you begin to know yourself and experience yourself more and more every day in every way as a facet of the multi-dimensional crystal of creation, you will connect to every other facet of that crystal. And it will shine forth and glint forth and reflect whatever image you need to see, whatever imagination and visualization is representative of the state of being that is your true natural self. And you will allow that image to be a vision, a symbol, a representation of the state. For that is all you need—the state itself. And all else will form itself on the template of that state.

For you are the template of your experience of physical reality. Your consciousness is the template upon which you experience yourself in all the ways you can. Past, present, and future are one and can occur in any order. And every time you redefine yourself, you have a new past, a new future, a new present, a new universe in totality. Literally, in every moment, there is a new person, a new reality, a new you.

Take a deep breath in and lock this in. Let it out into the world, into your world. Permeate your world with the breath of creation. Take another deep breath in and make it your own. Allow it to be true for you and let it out into your world—this certainty, this conviction. And take another deep breath in and hold it and blow it out and fill your reality with the atmosphere of knowingness that this is who you are.

Whatever you define yourself to be is true for you and it is at that moment the only truth. In the next moment you may change to another truth but at that moment it will be the only thing that is true for you. You are your own truth, your own generator, your own manifestor. It is automatic. It is immediate.

Be the manifestation of the future you in thought, word and deed. In all your visualization, see that you and mirror that you in thought, word and deed. And it will be the state of that reality. And you will know yourself, truly know yourself and express your full potential as life is created through you and experienced by you and within you.

Allow yourself a few moments to just float with the light and sound and let yourself feel how it is. Allowing your pathways to align and alter and shape and sculpt themselves into a perfect receiving antenna, a conduit of crystal imagination. Allow yourself to feel not that you are moving through space and time, but that space and time are moving through you. That an infinite number of bubble realities are expanding within you and from you, expanding out into the universe that is also a reflection of you. Reflection upon reflection upon reflection. Endless reflections in a universal hall of mirrors. Each and every one a slightly different perspective, a slightly different appearance, a slightly different expression looking back at you because they are reflections of you. And you are the source of all reflections in your life. Crystalline, scintillating, vibrating, active, alive, life, sentience, consciousness, awareness, constantly unfolding as new versions of you.

New versions of the future you in the present. That is who you are. Here and now. For that is all there is. There is no outside. There is only here and now.

Take a deep breath in and make it your own and let it out into the world. Permeate the atmosphere and the environment of your reality with your new knowledge. Take a deep breath in and reinforce this understanding, this knowledge, this knowingness. And let it out and take a deep breath in. And as you exhale, let it be the breath of life. That is all the actions that you take which shall be magnified and amplified and reflected back to you a hundredfold, a thousandfold, a millionfold. For again, you are simply the reflections of yourself over and over and over again from all different points of view. It is your universe. You are the universe of your being. And it is true for every one of you.

Allow yourself to feel this energy wash through you, over you, permeate you. Every cell and fiber of your being, every atom, every subatomic particle, every vibrating wave of energy, every idea. It is just another reflection, another ripple within the endless infinite sea of your consciousness interacting with other ripples to create new realities, new experiences, always expanding and contracting, reinforcing and diminishing, up and down, in and out, side to side. In every direction, you find only more and more and more of who you are and what you are as an aspect of the infinite.

Take a deep breath in and make it your own. For it is who you are and let it out and share it with the world, the infinite worlds of being that you contain. Take a deep breath in and allow this moment, this now to be forever and forever always your place of perfect peace, your center, your signature vibration. This is who you are. Take a deep breath in and continue to breathe forever and ever. This atmosphere, this environment enriched with this knowledge of self, of knowingness, of perfect peace and centered being and unconditional love.

And just continue to breathe knowing that anything that needs to be will be. And that you are now blended and harmonized with higher mind and future self and engaged in a life of fulfillment and creativity and unfoldment for this is your natural state. You are a creator.

Allow now your holotope experience to begin to fade externally, knowing that as the lights in the room slowly come up, you now have fully incorporated this vibration within your own consciousness and now the holotope is within you. All you need do at any time is remember this experience and that vibration shall be completely your present. It is now you. You are it and you are in full communion if you wish to be with all aspects of your being.

Let yourselves just sit with this for a few moments. Keep breathing deeply and easily, gently, lovingly, and allow all things that do not belong to you to drift away, to melt away, to fade away, and become neutral. A neutral sea of possibilities from which you will only choose that which is your signature vibration, your natural vibration, your true vibration of unconditional love for yourself and all that is. Feel the support, the gratitude, the appreciation and the joy. And remember that you are not returning to your reality. You are new people in a new reality. You have shifted and you are not who began this transmission. This is another reality. Another transmission in a new world, a new parallel earth, one that is more reflective of the reality you prefer to be. Welcome home. Welcome home. Welcome home. Our unconditional love to the extended members of our family. Our love to you all and good day.


