---
heading: Part 1
title: "Vortex Vibrations"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2009-09-19
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 515
tags: ['vortices', 'chakras']
---



## Vortex Vibrations and Earth Energy Grids

**Bashar:** What is a vortex?

There are different kinds of vortices. Some of them you call Earth chakras, similar to the idea of the chakra system, the energy system in your own individual bodies. 

Some of them are simply what might be called run-of-the-mill vortices that exist in and around the grid of the planet—the energy grid of the planet. 

Being that, in a sense, your planet is a type of crystalline form, there are certain nodal points, certain energy flows in and around it in the electromagnetic field of your world.

These grid points very often culminate in the idea of a vortex.

What's the difference between a chakra point and a normal vortex? 

**The chakra points are like faucets; the vortices are like drains.**

The chakra points pour into your world energy, radiate energy, give off energy that they tap into from a variety of dimensional planes, and from your Earth itself, and from your solar system, and from the electromagnetic field. 

They regulate and pulsate these frequencies and emanate them into your world in a variety of ways to create a stable field in which you can experience the idea called physical reality.

The normal vortices are where the energy flows go *out*. 

This does not mean something cannot come through a vortex from another place, but the general flow is: Chakra = In; Vortex = Out. And the vortices thus then are like gateways and doorways to a variety of different vibrational states, different energy states, different dimensional states, and therefore can be utilized like doorways as access portals to different dimensions.

For example, one of the strongest vortexes—or vortices, if you will—that you have upon your planet that is very familiar to you is what you typically call the **Bermuda Triangle** area, which acts as a fluctuating gateway and doorway to different dimensional levels, different vibratory states, different energy states. 

Why a variety of individuals and craft have from time to time disappeared or vanished in that area: Not all of them always go through a portal to another dimension. 

Sometimes the magnetic structure of a very strong vortex can wreak havoc in your instrumentation and simply cause certain vehicles to crash or sink, and thus they are simply lying on the bottom of your ocean floor. But from time to time, you will also find that when the confluence of energies is correct, when the vibrations are in balance in a certain way, gateways and portals and doorways will open to other dimensions. And if one of your craft go through them, they can in that sense shift to that reality. They do not always have a way of getting back since they do not know how to navigate these portals in the same way that other civilizations do. But you will learn in time.

The idea also of a chakra point on your planet is that in emanating certain frequencies, it regulates, as we said, some of those frequencies. Again, not that a chakra, being that it is emanating, can't also be a doorway to other dimensions. But the idea is that when you immerse yourself in the energy bubble of a chakra point—a major chakra point on your planet, such as for example what you call **Mount Shasta** in your immediate area—you can thus then take upon yourself an alignment of that energy. It can attune you. It can allow your own physical electromagnetic field to become aligned with that frequency so that you can be more in tune with the Earth vibration, depending upon also what specific vibration that chakra point may be representing. Because similar to your body, each chakra point on the planet does have a slight difference in degree of signature vibration that is relevant to the different chakra points in your body. Such as, again for example, the area in your Hawaiian Islands that you call **Haleakala**, being the heart chakra of your planet. Thus then, if you immerse yourself in the energy in proximity to the Haleakala mountain, you will find that it will help align your own heart chakra energy and amplify and magnify that energy in a variety of ways.

Now, this can be experienced by any of you in a positive and/or a negative way. It is really up to you, and it is determined by what you bring, so to speak, to the party. But the idea is that it causes magnification and amplification of what you *do* bring, and gives you an opportunity to decide how to align your energies now that you have been put in touch with them by immersing yourself in that energy field. This does not mean you cannot do this in other locations, but the idea is that your planet does have these natural points that are natural amplifiers, natural magnifiers. And they interact with each other in very specific ways. Both the chakras and the normal vortices interact in a variety of ways, creating a pulsing grid of energy around the planet, lines of energy that you can tap into and do tap into biologically all the time. And again, can be used to amplify, magnify, or alter or adjust your own electromagnetic vibrations in a variety of ways according to how you decide, how you choose to utilize those energies.

### Extraterrestrial Assistance and Energy Grids

Now, we have recently talked about the idea that our civilization and other civilizations not of your world are aiding and assisting in the transformation of your planet by feeding certain kinds of energy pulses into the major chakra points of your planet, the major vortices of your planet, to help balance and align many of these vibrational energies. So as to give you more and more and more opportunity to go through any transformation—whether personal, social, or cosmic—in the way that you would prefer. To give you the opportunity to choose to go through these shifts in a positive and constructive way as opposed to a negative and destructive way.

So we are also adding our own energies to your world. Not doing anything *for* you, but giving you options, giving you vibrational opportunities to link with, to align with, to identify with, and to reflect to you your choices, your potential, who you really are. Give you more opportunity to give yourself permission to be who you really are.

Different civilizations have different assignments, so to speak, with regard to regulating that energy, pulsing that energy, adding their energy. And a variety of civilizations are involved in this, including our own. I myself have been given the area above a major vortex in your area called **Sedona**. My ship is approximately 2,500 of your miles above that vortex, pulsing down energy constantly as a reminder, as a regulator of the vibration that can, through the creation of a variety of chord structures, help smooth out the vibrations of discord in your world in a variety of ways. And different members of my society in different ships are also positioned above other vortices, other chakra points on Planet, as are other civilizations, other ships, also pulsing their energy.

Now, the idea of being over a certain place does in a sense have to take its cue from the kinds of energy structures that exist in your world. And thus then, the energy we deliver has certain degrees of boundaries or borders in which the energy is most effective, and beyond those borders, not as effective. Therefore, that's why various members of a variety of civilizations are positioned over different energy grid points in order to add and maintain a consistency of energy. Because one cannot do it all; one ship cannot do it all because of the way energies interact with each other. Because of the way the grid points, chakras, and vortices interact with each other, it must be, in the sense, boosted from time to time here and there in order to be amplified to the appropriate pitch to allow for balance to occur.

### The Map of Energy Interactions

Now we would like to demonstrate via a graphic. We understand you may not all see this clearly right now, but you will all receive the ability to have copies of this image later on. Nevertheless, April, map. April, map. A map. Hold it up. This is what you call your United States, correct? Yes. Is it right side up? Yes. Thank you.

You will see two circles. Yes. All right. Now, the lower circle, in that sense, is centered on Sedona. The upper circle is centered on the chakra of Mount Shasta. You can see that they go to each in their extent. So in other words, the vibrational residents of Sedona will encounter the first major other vortex being Shasta. Shasta, giving off its emanations, will encounter the first major vortex at Sedona other than itself. Thus then, those two act as stopping points for each other to some degree and create an overlap that you call a **Vesica Pisces**. This area in the Vesica Pisces of this overlap is what we call the **Magnification Zone**. In this magnification zone, different kinds of frequencies, different kinds of experiences, can be magnified and amplified to very great degrees.

So you can see a line going straight also from the Shasta chakra to the Sedona vortex, connecting them straight through. Now we will get back to this map.

*(Map is held up higher)*

This is generally speaking a map of your planet. You can see now a little bit more broadly the idea of the two circles, Sedona, Shasta. You can also see the radiation from Sedona circles going out and out and out and out, and how they encounter different vortices in proximity. Encountering the idea of the vortex of Shasta gives a certain circle. Encountering the idea of the vortex in the Yucatan Peninsula gives a different circle. Encountering the idea of the Haleakala chakra gives a different circle. And on and on and on. And you can see that as they encounter each other, there are different resonance areas that are created, different, shall we say, diameters of interference of concordance. And in that sense, crests of waves and troughs of waves, as is depicted in the line above the circles.

In the very center where we are distributing most of our energy to Sedona is the idea of what we have called the **Sirius vibration**, in that sense, of the 33 cycles per second. When it passes another vortex, in that sense, the interaction of the crests and the troughs causes the vibration to diminish to 10 cycles per second. In the thinnest border of two circles that is encountered by Hawaii is the actual resonance of the Earth, what you call the **Schumann Resonance** of 7.8 cycles per second. And that is why the Hawaiian island, in that sense, in this relationship represents the Earth vibration, the heart vibration, the natural vibration of your planet. Outward from there, as it dissipates and diminishes, it goes down to 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 cycle per second until then the next vortex picks that up, the next amplification picks that up and goes on from there.

As you can see from this, our interaction with the Sedona vortex allows, through the interactions of all of these other vortices all the way out to the Bermuda Triangle, allows us to span what you call the entire United States and other parts of the North American continent. That is our territory, energy-speaking. Thus then, other members of my society must pick up the ball, as you say, for other vortices to continue that energy leap-frogging around your planet, all overlapping in such a manner as to maintain an average of the 7.8 Schumann cycle, the natural Earth cycle, for all of you to resonate to, to be connected to the idea of Nature and the Earth Consciousness vibration.

Now you can also see a line going across your planet, angled slightly upward, starting all the way over to one side in the Hawaiian Islands. Can you see that? All right. It moves across your planet, and you will see that it actually passes through several other major vortices, including the Bermuda Triangle, in a straight line, all the way then through what you call Giza—you are familiar with that—continuing on through the plateau of Tibet, and in a straight line continuing on through the chakra point of Mount Fuji in Japan, and continuing on upward, spiraling slightly upward around your planet, coming back in on the other side at a specific distance, continuing in that straight line and ending at Mount Shasta in that spiral. So all it has to do is follow that straight line spiral around your planet in one turn, and you have many of the major chakra points and vortices in this one configuration. There are many other configurations we will not go into now for the sake of simplicity, but this begins to give you an idea of how these things start to line up energetically and how they are all interconnected, and how these energy flows go around your planet in a spiraling motion to connect to and include and amplify all of these different centers, around and around and around.

Let us go back to map A just a little tidbit we would like to point out. Are you holding it up? Oh, thank you. You see the Sedona circle, you see the Shasta circle, you see the Vesica Pisces, you see the straight line between Sedona and Shasta. Shasta is represented by a small triangle, Sedona represented by a small circle. But along that line, there is a small black square. Do you see it? Do you know what that is? Area 51. It is square on that line. That's not an accident. I'll let you ponder that. Thank you.

So the idea is that many times when you as humans create something, some place, some purpose, some function, you will instinctively and automatically gravitate to many of these lines, placing things right on them to take advantage of the energy that flows through them. Many times this is simply unconscious and instinctive within you. Although from time to time in your history, when individuals understand this grid, they will purposely place things there to take advantage of the amplification that can be derived by tapping into those energy lines. You call them lay lines, grid points. It doesn't matter. The point is, those lines exist, the vortices exist, the chakra points exist. They all pulse together in a certain way that is representative of your ability to retain balance within your lives and to amplify and magnify your own energy in such a way as to take advantage of tapping into these places. So that you can direct your own vibrational intentions—which we will be talking about in more detail to more of your time—with respect to what you wish to manifest in your physical reality. And allow your physical reality to become so aligned in such a manner with these particular vortex points and with these particular specific vibrations so as to allow for explosions of synchronicity to occur in your physical reality that will one day be experienced by all of you in a very, very magical way, as it was many thousands of your years ago.

You are remembering how to do this, which is why we are having this conversation now: to bring from your unconscious mind to your conscious mind more and more recollections of these ideas. How to use the energy of your world, how to use your connection to Nature, how to use your connection to yourselves individually and collectively to amplify and magnify the idea of the reality you are creating every single moment of every single day. In such a manner as to create shifts in your vibrational being, to shift from parallel reality to parallel reality in a conscious way, so that you can define and design the reality of your dreams. Because physical reality is a dream, but you need to wake up in it. You need to become lucid in this dream. And that is what this process of transformation on your planet is all about: becoming lucid dreamers in your physical dream so that you can understand it is a dream, and that you, as the dreamer dreaming the dream, recognize that you are the dream and it is also dreaming you. And that you can together work with this reflection in such a manner, at such a perfect pitch of energy frequency, in such harmony and unity with the Earth vibration, that it can function as the doorways, the portals it was designed to function as. So that synchronicities can abound, so that connections can be made, so that you can recognize and realize in a very concrete way, in a very pragmatic, down-to-earth way, the idea that you are manifesting every second that you experience.

All within your consciousness there is no outside. All these vibrations are taking place within yourself. And these maps might as well be a diagram of your own consciousness. The idea of your planet is that you are your world, you are your universe, and it is you. And when you understand these chords, when you understand these frequencies, you will know how to change your tune and sing a beautiful song of Creation with Creation in harmony and alignment.

You all follow along? Yes. All right. Some of you do. Do you all follow along? Thank you.

Now then, you will let all this sink in. You can study it on your own time. There will be more about these ideas later, more layers, more levels added to these beginning ideas so that you can become proficient at reading the map, reading the lines, charting your course, seeing the way for you specifically, for you in your unique way.

We thank you for allowing us to share and reflect to you what you already know. And in return for the gift you have given to us, I ask you now: In what way may we be of service to you? You may begin your dialogues.

***

# Q&A Session 1

**Questioner 1:** Hello Bashar. How you? Good day. Um, do you ever feel devious?

**Bashar:** Are you sure you really want to know?

**Questioner 1:** Yes.

**Bashar:** No. But am I being devious when I say no?

**Questioner 1:** How do you know?

**Bashar:** Your voice. That is not really within our repertoire of emotional experience. We know we always have the choice to be devious, to feel devious, but it is something that we no longer need and really never did.

**Questioner 1:** Well, I was thinking, you know, um, when you're listening to us talk... yes? Do you guys create like exaggerated, exaggerated representations of what we're saying to kind of amuse yourselves?

**Bashar:** We believe that you are amusement enough, and it would probably be difficult to exaggerate you anyway.

**Questioner 1:** All right, fair enough. Does that answer your question?

**Bashar:** Yes. Is there something else you wish to discuss?

**Questioner 1:** Yes. Um, when the hybrid children are preparing for contact with humans, yes? Do they have some kind of virtual reality equipment that they practice on?

**Bashar:** They do. And they are being, in that sense, trained in various scenarios to acclimate to the idea of your society. But at the same time, dialogues like this between us are also acclimating *you* to *theirs*, nice? So that you can, in a sense, meet halfway.

**Questioner 1:** Mhm. And uh, what are some of the most common mistakes that they make with humans?

**Bashar:** There are many things that they experience in terms of understanding empathically what you are about to say and responding to it before you say it. So they are learning to wait until you say it. *(Laughter)* Anything else?

**Questioner 1:** Well, not many of them eat the same kind of things that you do.

**Bashar:** What do they eat?

**Questioner 1:** More along the lines of what you would call a vegetarian diet.

**Bashar:** Mhm. Thus then, the idea sometimes is that they will not completely have familiarity with many of the things that many humans ingest and will find—well, we do not mean to be impolite—they will find it repugnant. Thus then, they may make some comments now and then about those kinds of things, but they are learning to be more polite.

**Questioner 1:** Okay. Um, and one last thing. Yes. Um, when you say that someday we'll learn to communicate at a deeper level other than just, you know, surface chat... yes? How will that look?

**Bashar:** It will be very, very quiet, as it is on our world, because we are all telepathic. Almost no one talks. Oh. So the idea is that you will say what is necessary when it is necessary, not before and not after, because you will know what needs to be said. You will not guess; you will know.

**Questioner 1:** Okay. Does that help?

**Bashar:** Yes. That's one small part of it. But that will be one, in a sense, of the ways you will know that you are communing on a deeper level: is that you will simply be to the point exactly when you need to be, not a second before, but not a second later. And you will know what you need to say when you need to know it, not a second before and not a second after.

**Questioner 1:** Okay. Beautiful. Thank you.

***

# Q&A Session 2

**Questioner 2:** Hello Bashar. And are you good day?

**Bashar:** Uh, first of all, thank you for all this information. It's very exciting.

**Bashar:** We thank you once again for allowing us to reflect what you already know within you. Very good.

**Questioner 2:** Um, the most exciting thing I can think to ask you concerns cats, or the feline race. Yay! I'm interested in their cosmic origins, what they're like on their planet, um, what they're like on their planet... well, cats exist on your planet, right? Correct. Um, in the physical form, yes. Um, of course they have other dimensional aspects as all of you do, and everything does. Very good. So I'm interested in their multi-dimensional aspects as well as how they help and facilitate our human experience on Earth.

**Bashar:** All right. Well, as many of you already know, they are very proficient at actually seeing into other dimensions, things that are beyond your senses right now. But they are teaching you how to stretch your senses. Anytime you form a rapport with a cat, you are working to stretch your senses into other dimensions. On other dimensional levels, what you perceive as a cat in your physical reality sometimes presents itself as a very slippery little being, slipping in between dimensional barriers or dimensional borders. We don't know if this is going to translate properly into your language, but the idea would be as if you saw something slipping around very quickly, not quite being able to focus on it. In fact, some of you actually have perceived some of this. They are what you call the "rods." Do you understand this connotation? Some of you have perceived with some of your technological camera devices that there are quasi-physical things flitting around through the air that your senses can't normally see. Well, these are the higher dimensional forms of some of the animals on your planet, including cats, perhaps especially cats. Do you follow?

**Questioner 2:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So the idea is that they are quite free to come and go interdimensionally, consciousness-wise. You understand this resonates with me as Bashar. Yes. And that is all. Thank you very much.

**Questioner 2:** Yes. And that is all. Thank you very much.

***

# Q&A Session 3 (Strawberry)

**Questioner 3 (Strawberry):** Hello Bashar. And of you, a good day. Thank you. I speak up and be bold so that all may hear what you have to share. All right. So I've had many opportunities to talk to you before, and I've always had questions and clever things to ask, but basically I think I want to share this time. Oh, right. Thank you. Two and a half years or so ago, I was sort of thrust upon this path of following my excitement because life wasn't very exciting. Oh, all right. Thank you. And for choosing to be more of yourself. Yes. It's been an amazing ride. I moved to the West Coast. And just kind of the West Coast of the... the west coast of the United States? Oh, all right. Thank you. I took a leap. And uh, my life had the ocean... no, not quite. Almost, almost. But I made it to land. So all right. Um, yeah. My life has exploded in synchronicity and abundance and opportunity, and it's been amazing. Thank you. It's been uh, great. And I guess on that same note, yes, I have been just like we said about seeing things flutter in and out. I've experienced sometimes they're even metallic craft, and I know they are, but other times they're more amorphous, I guess you might say.

**Bashar:** Yes. Well, sometimes there are certain kinds of vehicles that, when they enter your dimension, may take on a solid aspect because that's the translation, the best translation your dimension can make of that thing. But in its own reality, it may not actually be solid or metallic. Okay.

**Questioner 3:** So the idea is, as I raised my vibration, I become more close to that. This is one of the symptoms, so to speak, of the transformation: is that you stretch your senses to be capable of seeing what heretofore was invisible all around you. And now it becomes something that you can perceive because your senses are more finely tuned because you're on a higher vibrational plane, a higher resonant frequency, and you can see a different program. Okay. And on that same note, the group that I've connected with here, we've experienced some, I guess, the thing I could say is telepathy. There's a knowingness that a lot of nothing really needs to be said; it's already felt and known. So I feel like I'm on that path. It's a lot of fun.

**Bashar:** All right. Thank you. And remember, you're not on a path; you *are* the path.

**Questioner 3:** I am the path. Thank you. That's all I had. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

***

# Q&A Session 4 (Zebra)

**Questioner 4 (Zebra):** Hi Bashar. Any of you? Good day. My name is Zebra.

**Bashar:** All right, if you insist.

**Questioner 4:** Um, I would just wanted to ask... um, I've had dreams where I feel like it may have been like lucid, or it may have been like remembering something.

**Bashar:** Yes. And it can be both. And either. There are many different things that dreams can be. Sometimes it can simply be recollections of the day, processing it. It can be experiences that you are having in other dimensions, and you remember them. However, your mind can make sense out of remembering something that has no symbols in physical reality to remember it by.

**Questioner 4:** So I was wondering, yes. Um, if I feel like I've been like visited...

**Bashar:** Yes. You probably have.

**Questioner 4:** And I would want to actually be visited more often. Or like, what you're saying is that you want to remember how often you're being visited?

**Bashar:** Because all of you are visited exactly as often as you need to be. The idea, however, is that you forget. For a variety of reasons: sometimes you are made to forget, sometimes you choose to forget. Sometimes just the idea of attempting to remember something in another dimension in your physical reality is not something you can remember easily until you make sensitive... until you build a new vocabulary for it. However, it's all right that you forget. Because one of the things we are doing is we are taking stock of how and when and at what rate you actually remember the encounters you've already had. And the rate at which to remember the encounters that have already happened gives us an understanding of how close you are all coming to the time when open contact can occur and you will remember it. So we're using that as a barometer. Because many of you have already had contact, but you don't remember. The rate at which you remember you've already had contact is the rate at which you are becoming ready for open contact.

**Questioner 4:** Well, yes. I decided I'm not really afraid of that. Like, all my fears I had before about like open contact, yes. And I just want to know how I would be able to, like, let them know by acting...

**Bashar:** To the best of your ability on your highest joy and being the best you possibly can be. Thus then, you will operate at a frequency level that will let them know you are ready for more. Okay. Thank you. Are you willing to allow it to be that simple? Because I know sometimes how you humans love to complicate things. But if you're willing to let it be that simple, then you will experience it as that simple. Okay. Does that help?

**Questioner 4:** Yeah. Pleasant dream. Thank you.

***

# Q&A Session 5 (Strawberry - Continued)

**Questioner 3 (Strawberry):** Hello, friend. And to you, good day. Strawberry. Hey, this is my 25th anniversary with you in human. Thank you for your quarter of a century of service.

**Bashar:** All right. I apologize that I do not have a gold watch to give you.

**Questioner 3:** I was looking forward to that too. Oh, well.

**Bashar:** But I will allow you to share in our golden timelessness. Uh, the golden... basking in the glory of who you are is basking in your own glory would be more appropriate.

**Questioner 3:** Oh, okay. Good. We'll bask in them. Thank you. Last time we were together, you uh, invited me into the signatory vibration of pumpernickel bread. Yes. In the idea, I presume that this was a frequency that would align with my departed wife and enable me to have more communications. Yes. I have her picture between rock-hard pumpernickel bread. I have eaten it, and I have had some delightful contacts. I would invite... I would ask you, um, how I utilize this tool for even more clarity of contact.

**Bashar:** All right. One moment. Are you gaining clarity?

**Questioner 3:** Yeah. Thanks, baby.

**Bashar:** Much simpler. Telepathically. Is it?

**Questioner 3:** Yes. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Cool. I seem to be able to channel with great ease for other people. I'm having difficulty channeling for myself. Why?

**Bashar:** Nonsense. Good. That takes care of that. All right. Remember that you do not have to go into exactly the same state to receive for yourself that you do to translate for others. Yeah. Yeah. It's simpler than you think. That's all. You're trying too hard. Yeah. Relaxing the effort. It's really more opening up for yourself, just receiving. Yes. Understand? Just be a receiver. Yeah. All right. Yeah. Okay.

**Questioner 3:** And poppy seed cake.

**Bashar:** Okay, baby.

**Questioner 3:** One other area I... I'm running into, by the way, I've had some amazing experiences. I just had the entire... all of the various time tracks that I've experienced existing as a gestalt in present time. Congratulations.

**Bashar:** Again, one of the symptoms of the transformation is to start perceiving the idea of time simultaneously on multiple tracks. Yes. And as a visceral experience, it's quite delightful.

**Questioner 3:** Yes. It is. Well, it is quite lightful rather than delightful, but yes. You know, you're a real wise ass at times, you know.

**Bashar:** We know. Yeah. But I love it. Smart ass is better than a dumb one, is it?

**Bashar:** Yes. We think so. Although they have their value. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Absolutely. Contrast and all. Yeah. Yes. Polarity.

**Questioner 3:** Polarity, baby. All right. And so one other area... been running into some intense feelings of separation and not belonging.

**Bashar:** All right. To what?

**Questioner 3:** To anything. Yes. To the connection to the reality itself. Especially to love. Yes.

**Bashar:** Um, it's a transitional state. Hm. Yeah. I figured. When you let go and unlock from one reality, sometimes because you are used to the idea of space-time linearity, you will take some time before you reconnect to a new reality vibration. And in that floating freeness, limbo, you can sometimes, if you have negative interpretation or negative definition, define it in that sense as not belonging. But it is simply an unlocking so that you can re-lock. It is simply a disorientation so you can reorient. If you allow yourself to experience this in a positive way, you will enjoy the limbo state and float freely to your next destination. Okay. And you got a bit of a vortex phenomenon there. Absolutely. Absolutely. So you've got the falling out of one reality, so that the havingness is disappearing on the reality. Yes. And that can make you spin around a little bit and make you dizzy a little bit. But that's all right. You'll get used to it as soon as you, shall we say, match the speed of the vortex. Then it will all settle back in and crystallize. So it's very much of an acceptance reality. Absolutely. It all is. You have to accept and allow to let a reality in. And letting go of the impulse to change it, the impulse to alter it. The appreciation and admiring of the void. And the dropping of all expectation as to what you think it ought to be. And just allow it to be what it is.

**Questioner 3:** That's a... is that a positive thing?

**Bashar:** It is now. It wasn't when I said it.

**Questioner 3:** Okay. Love you, sweetheart.

**Bashar:** Good. Our love to you as well.

***

# Q&A Session 6

**Questioner 6:** Strawberry. Hi Bashar. And to you, good day. Uh, one moment. By the way, Strawberry, it might just be an itch you need to scratch. Continue.

**Questioner 6:** Um, my question is kind of similar to the lady before him. Um, yes. But it will also be uniquely your own. Yeah. I just... I feel like I have to ask this. Oh, all right. If you have to, by all means, don't keep us in suspense. Okay. Or do, because we like suspense too. Okay. Uh, when I was a child, I would have the same dream. Like, I would just get into this state, like somewhere in between, like, you know, I wasn't sure if I was dreaming or, like, you know, awake. Just I'm not sure. Then I remember there are those in-between states, and I know I'm aware of that. But like, I would just have that same experience over and over, which was so like... which was what? Which was like my body is like paralyzed, and I would just see myself like floating in the air. And I know there's like some being, just yes, invisible being. And I'm just... I have the same experience, and I'll just go back to sleep. No. Very, very often.

**Bashar:** In certain visitations, you are shifted from one dimension to another. The paralysis is often the reaction of your physical body to the shift because it can no longer move in the dimension in which it used to exist and doesn't yet know how to move in the new dimension it's being shifted to. So paralysis occurs. Secondarily, sometimes the beings might impose the paralysis on your physical body to ensure that you make it to the dimension they're guiding you toward, rather than letting you float free to skip off into some other dimension. I see.

**Questioner 6:** Okay. So I always wondered, you know, I was visited, and I'm just ready to remember if I have shifted to another...

**Bashar:** You can start remembering within the next 3 days if you wish. Will you assist me remember? Because I want to have... okay. Thank you so much. All right. Okay. Awesome. Thank you. Thank you so much. I love you.

**Bashar:** Our love to you as well.

***

# Q&A Session 7

**Questioner 7:** Hello Bashar. And you, a good day. Could you tell me the relationship between the physical arthritic pain that I'm going through in my knees, lower back, and my leg, to the emotional stress that I dwell on during the day? Sometime you mean... you don't have an answer in your description? Well, uh, I would like your answer, sir.

**Bashar:** Well, the idea of the stress, in that sense, shall we say, locks you into a certain position, makes it difficult to be flexible. You understand? Yes. What is it? You are unwilling to move forward.

**Questioner 7:** Into... uh, I'm... I am stuck on some emotional family problems that I'm going through.

**Bashar:** You are stuck on emotional family problems, which means you are unconscious about certain definitions and belief systems within yourself. Because all emotion stems from a belief or a definition. You can't feel anyway about anything unless you believe something to be true first. So if you want to unstick, the idea is to discover what beliefs and definitions are giving rise to the emotions that you're experiencing in any given situation. And the way you go about that, primarily, most simply, is to, in any given situation where you feel that kind of an emotion, is to first own it. Because you can't change what you don't own. And then acknowledge that it's giving you a signal. The signal being that you're experiencing what you typically call in your language a negative emotion, simply because you're filtering your energy through a negative belief system. Because that's how emotions are generated: when your energy flows through a particular belief system.

So if you're having a certain kind of emotional experience, all you have to do is ask yourself: "What do I have to believe about myself being true in my relationship to this situation?" When you find out what it is you believe to be true about yourself relative to the situation you're in, you will discover, if you listen carefully enough, what the definition is you have about your relationship to that situation. And when you discover the definition and make the definition conscious, if it is a definition that is out of alignment with your true self, it will suddenly appear illogical and nonsensical, and you can let it go. Because anything that is out of alignment with your true self appears illogical and nonsensical.

The idea thus is that you have to bring it from the unconscious mind to the conscious mind. Because once you identify the belief, then you are capable of letting it go. But it will always cause the emotional reoccurrences to happen if you do not bring the belief to conscious recognition. Does this make sense to you?

**Questioner 7:** Yes, it does. So you're basically, in other words, if I'm feeling my feelings... yes. Find out what's generating the feeling. What kind of thing would you have to believe is true? What kind of belief or definition would you have to buy into in order to feel what you're feeling? Because if you don't have a definition, you don't have a feeling. If I tell you a word that you have no definition for, you don't know how to feel. Do you? No. Well, there you go. Once you have a definition, you start imposing all sorts of feelings in that because of the definitional structure you've imposed on that situation. But all situations are fundamentally neutral. They don't come with built-in meaning. They are devoid of meaning. Life fundamentally is meaningless. I don't mean that in a bad way. It means that you are designed to impose meaning on life. You decide what things mean. They don't automatically mean anything. They're just neutral. They're just props. So whatever situation occurs, no matter how it looks on the surface, if you start giving it... if you start assigning it a more positive meaning—allow it to be neutral at first, step back, take a moment, say "Wait a minute, I don't have to react, this is neutral"—then assign it a positive meaning for whatever reason, then you will only get a positive effect out of it, no matter what anyone else's intention in the situation may be toward you. Do you understand?

**Questioner 7:** That was a beautiful answer. Well, thank you. Now, are you also hesitating to move forward on your joy and your excitement in life?

**Questioner 7:** No, not at all. You're not hesitating or not moving? I'm not moving.

**Bashar:** All right. And so what is your fear about acting on your highest joy? What do you believe will happen if you do? Because you see, that's another way to discover what your beliefs are. If you have a fear, then explore it. Amplify it. Magnify it. Bring it into the light and say, "All right, if I did in fact do this thing, what is the worst thing I'm afraid might happen?" And then let your imagination free reign. Become terrified. Magnified. So that you can find out what the belief is, what the definition is. And once you know what it is, you will start to see that it doesn't fit. It doesn't belong. It's nonsensical. It's illogical. And most importantly, it doesn't belong to you. It probably came from parents. It probably came from society. It probably came from peers. But you don't have to buy into it. Because the only way you experience anything is because you agree to experience it. So if it's a belief that came from someone else that doesn't really belong to you, drop it. Because if you carry it around through life and it doesn't belong to you, that's called theft. You're stealing other people's beliefs. They don't belong to you. Right? So drop them. Turn them in. "Oh, these don't belong to me. Go back to the belief exchange. I'd like to turn these in. They don't belong to me. And besides, they're very heavy, and I'm tired of dragging them around through my life. They're making my joints ache." There you go. Thank you. Follow along?

**Questioner 7:** Yes. Thank you very much. Thank you.

***

# Q&A Session 8

**Questioner 8:** Hello. And are you good day? Thank you. I get really excited about creativity. Yes. So do we. Yeah. So I want to help individuals and organizations go... right ahead. Be more creative. Go right ahead. Nothing is stopping you, is it?

**Questioner 8:** It goes back to my own beliefs, of course. It does. Do you have beliefs that are stopping you from being as creative as you would like to be? Hesitation usually means you are. Yeah. And so what are you hesitant about? What seems difficult about acting on this to you?

**Questioner 8:** You know, just fear of rejection. Fear of rejection from whom? Myself? People? Why would you reject yourself? And if other people reject you, if they have nothing to do with your dream, why do you care?

**Questioner 8:** Yeah. I agree. Yeah. Why are you accepting their opinion of you? Do you not have one of your own?

**Questioner 8:** I do. Why do you want to help people become more creative? 'Cuz it enhances life. It enhances...

**Bashar:** If you know that... if you are absolutely certain that's true?

**Questioner 8:** I am.

**Bashar:** Then if you're absolutely certain that's true, why would the idea of rejection even ever enter that equation? Preconditions. But if you know their precondition conditions, you don't have the conditioning anymore. Do you remember? A habit is something you do that you don't know you're doing. If you know the habit exists, you don't have it anymore. If you keep doing the same thing, it's not a habit; it's a choice. You understand?

**Questioner 8:** Yes. Thank you. So does that make it easier for you to simply go ahead and do what you want to do, what excites you?

**Questioner 8:** Yeah. I hope so.

**Bashar:** What? I hope so? I want to... what I'm going to... thank you. Thank you again. If you find yourself hesitating, ask yourself: What do you believe is true? And why do you believe that to be true? If it's making you hesitate, you can find out. But when you find out... understand... you don't have a habit once you know you have it. Because of the definitions that exist on your planet, many of you are taught to believe that when you discover the habit, that's the beginning of the process of getting rid of it. No. It's the end. Right? You don't have it as soon as you see it. As we have often said, it is what you call the "forest for the trees" issue. The only way you know that you were in a forest is to be outside of it looking back. Then you can see the whole forest. "Oh, look, a forest." But you can't go, "Oh, look, a forest," unless you're outside the forest. When you're in it, all you go is, "Oh, look, trees." You understand? Right. So when you see the habit, when you know the pattern is there, you're already outside of the pattern. And the only reason you would keep doing it is because you assume, from a belief you have, you *have* to. But you don't. So if you do keep doing the same thing you say you don't want to do, then you need to ask yourself: Why would I choose this? How does it serve me to choose this? Because you don't do anything—none of you do anything—you don't believe serves you in some way. So even though it may seem contradictory, and you go, "Well, I know I would prefer this, but I keep doing this," what that tells you is you have a belief attached to each of these things that says that this is not the way, this is that. Somehow the thing you want to do, you say you want to do, is somehow more scary than the thing you are doing. As difficult as it may be to keep doing it, somehow this is safer for you because of a belief you've attached to this and that. When you then reverse those beliefs, you will then do the thing that excites you the most, because now you have a belief attached to it that says this is actually to your benefit, and this is not. But as long as you keep doing something that you know is not to your benefit in lieu of something that is, it means you have a belief attached in the opposite direction to those things that makes the thing that excites you seem to be of less benefit to do it than the thing you keep doing that you don't like. Make sense?

**Questioner 8:** Yes. Can you reverse those?

**Bashar:** Yes. Can you allow your excitement to really be the best thing for you? Or are you afraid that if you follow your excitement to the best of your ability, something bad will still happen? There is an element of uncertainty. What's the uncertainty? That I may not be able to be that creative self that I want to be. Really? You really believe that?

**Questioner 8:** I don't want to believe it.

**Bashar:** Why don't you want to believe it?

**Questioner 8:** It doesn't serve me well.

**Bashar:** If it doesn't serve you, then why do you believe it?

**Questioner 8:** It doesn't serve me the way I want it to. But it serves me to, I guess, learn to transform it.

**Bashar:** All right. Have you transformed it then, in the process?

**Questioner 8:** Yes. All right. Yes. All right.

**Bashar:** Again, the idea is that you're focusing to some degree on a goal. Just be in the journey. The journey is the goal. Just enjoy what you're doing for its own sake. You don't have to do what you enjoy to accomplish a particular thing. The doing of what you enjoy is the accomplishment. You follow?

**Questioner 8:** Yes. That's enough. That's enough.

**Bashar:** So if you just enjoy what you're doing and do what you enjoy, you have already created the idea of accomplishment and success. All the rest of it is just expectation. All the rest of it is just side effects. All the rest of it is just whatever happens when you express the idea of your own joy, your own creativity. All the rest of it is just expressions of that. It is not the achievement of that; it is just the expression of what you've already achieved by just doing what excites you. Because you don't need another reason. And you don't need another reason. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 8:** Yes. Are you sure it does?

**Questioner 8:** Yes. Thank you. One more question. Yes. What does a typical day on your planet look like?

**Bashar:** There are no typical days. They are all atypical. And I suppose they're typical in that way. I do personally many different things: contacting other civilizations, creating art, many different things. Different beings go about doing different things that excite them and come together when they need to in perfect synchronicity, when they need to come together without planning. As we said, it is very quiet because it is mostly telepathic. There are sounds in the forests of animals and such. They are similar to some degree to yours, but not exactly. All our animals are symbiotic. There is no predation. Do you understand?

**Questioner 8:** What is predation? Predators? Oh, okay. There are no predators. There are only symbiots on our planet. Nothing, in that sense, feeds off another to the point of death. You follow? Yeah. All right. We go about doing many different things. There are trainings for those that come into the idea of being First Contact Specialists, like myself. There are field trips to other worlds. There are journeys on spaceships. There are communions with nature in a variety of ways. Gatherings of beings of all types in a variety of ways. Inventing of things and creation of things and games in a variety of ways. There are many things. Does that answer your question sufficiently, or is there some specific avenue of my civilization you would rather explore?

**Questioner 8:** I'm curious about Earth. As far as... no predation on your planet. In this transition into a new life form on our planet, will we have a different sort of ecology?

**Bashar:** Yes. In fact, in a sense, you're creating that now. It is even being reflected in certain aspects of your entertainment, where you see many different kinds of things having to do with your connection to nature. You understand? Yes. All right. So you are seeing that transition. But remember, primarily, the things on your planet are predatory because *you* are. Make sense? Yes. Now, there is nothing wrong with that. We are not devaluing it. We are not negatively judging it. It is just what it is. As a reflection, it's a learning tool. Learn. Decide whether you wish to perpetuate it, change it if you wish. It's up to you. But we sense that you're moving in that direction slowly. But that's all right. It's all relative. And for you, the pace is appropriate. When you deem it's appropriate. Make sense?

**Questioner 8:** Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Good day.

***

# Q&A Session 9

**Questioner 9:** Hi Bashar. And you, good day. Um, my question is... I've... speak up, speak up. I've been following my highest joy, I think, my entire life.

**Bashar:** You *think*? Doesn't sound very convincing.

**Questioner 9:** Well, since I was a little girl, I always wanted to be a designer. And all through my entire life, I've gone to design school.

**Bashar:** Yes. A designer of what?

**Questioner 9:** Clothes.

**Bashar:** All right. And are you doing that?

**Questioner 9:** Yes.

**Bashar:** All right. So you are living one of your dreams.

**Questioner 9:** Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:** All right. Thank you. Okay. And then, um, and I started my own business. And years ago, when I started it, it just went through the roof. I had so much business, it was scary.

**Bashar:** Why was it scary?

**Questioner 9:** Because we... we could hardly handle the amount of business that we had.

**Bashar:** All right. And so what did you do?

**Questioner 9:** Well, we tried...

**Bashar:** Did you scale back?

**Questioner 9:** No. We didn't try to. We kept trying to grow with it.

**Bashar:** But now, why did you try to grow with it instead of simply growing?

**Questioner 9:** Well, I think we... we were... I mean, to the best of my ability that at that time... yes. At that time.

**Bashar:** All right. And now?

**Questioner 9:** And now it's like I try and I try... stop.

**Bashar:** Trying. Nothing is ever accomplished by trying. It is only accomplished by doing. Something by being a particular frequency, by living a particular way. Right? Do you have a picture in your head of your ideal scenario with you in it?

**Questioner 9:** Yes.

**Bashar:** How different is it from your scenario now?

**Questioner 9:** Pretty different.

**Bashar:** All right. Imagine for a moment—whether your eyes are open or closed is up to you—imagine for a moment that scenario where you see yourself in that scenario. Do you see it? Mhm. All right. Now pay attention to that version of you closely. Do you see her doing things?

**Questioner 9:** Well, it's just a moment, but yes. Just a moment.

**Bashar:** Yes. All right. Well, stretch it out. See her going about her day in this ideal scenario. Okay. Whether it be actually at work, or at play, or at home. See her the way she would be behaving in that reality. Do you see her?

**Questioner 9:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Is she behaving differently than you behave on a day-to-day basis?

**Questioner 9:** Yes. But the situations are different. Like in my vision...

**Bashar:** Don't get ahead of the game. Okay. Do you see her behaving differently?

**Questioner 9:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Regardless of the circumstances, you need to behave as she does in all ways she would behave in any circumstance that occurred. You're not being her. Her. She would behave as she chooses to behave regardless of how things look around her. Because what does she know that you don't? She knows that circumstances don't matter. Only state of being does. Why? Because circumstances are an illusion. They're neutral. They're props. They don't mean anything. They're empty. Devoid of meaning. So no matter what happens to her, she's still going to behave like the she she wants to be. She's not going to take her behavioral cue from the circumstances around her. She's going to allow the circumstances around her to take their cue from her. You follow along here? Uhhuh. Uh-huh.

So the reason you have the ability to visualize the ideal situation is so that you can use it like a mirror. So that you can mimic it. So that you can behave like her in all situations, regardless of what the circumstances are that surround you. When you start doing that, you will be the vibration of that being. And when you're the vibration of that being, you will then be capable of seeing opportunities you can't see because you're not the vibration of those opportunities like she is. Anytime you are not the vibration of something, it's invisible to you. So you will not see the doorways and the opportunities you could walk through or you could attract to yourself if you are not the vibration that she is being. Because she can see them, but you can't, because you're not being her. Make sense? Mhm. Do you think you can do that?

**Questioner 9:** I'm afraid that when I walk away, you know, just... I'm just afraid that like when I get home and I try to do it, I'm going to have... it's like I hear all this stuff and I know it, but you don't believe it.

**Questioner 9:** No, I do believe it. But it's like I can't... it's like I can't change into... I don't know.

**Bashar:** Yes, you do. You said it yourself. You're afraid. What are you afraid of?

**Questioner 9:** I don't know.

**Bashar:** Yes, you do. What are you afraid of? Let's paint the scenario. Imagine it didn't... you hear us before say, if you have a fear, let's magnify it, let's amplify it. What's the worst thing that might happen if you, as you say, try—which I'm not recommending—but if you attempt to be like her, what's the worst thing you fear might happen? Come. Come. Come.

**Questioner 9:** I don't... I don't know. I... yes, you do. Well, the only thing I can think of is what happened the first time that I got so busy that I couldn't handle it, and it scared me. Maybe. But I don't know if that's the answer. I don't know if that's right.

**Bashar:** All right. Let's, for the moment, assume that it is. So let's say you started to get busy again. Yes. Yes. All right. Let's say so busy that you needed assistance. Yes. Yes. Yes. Is there some reason you couldn't attract assistance?

**Questioner 9:** No. I... no. I had them then.

**Bashar:** Why were you scared?

**Questioner 9:** Well, no, I wasn't. But um, like, okay. So when did you get scared? Obviously, at some point in this entire scenario, you became scared. Yeah. When was that?

**Questioner 9:** Well, I um... don't tell me you don't know. No, I mean, I remember moments when we were so busy and I wouldn't sleep through the night because I didn't think we were going to ship product, and people were going to cancel these huge orders. And if they canceled... some of them were so big, if they canceled one order, it'd put me out of business.

**Bashar:** And you were afraid of that? Yeah. I believe you need to know and learn the sacred mantra. You want it?

**Questioner 9:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Yes. It's two words. Are you ready?

**Questioner 9:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Repeat after me. Are you ready?

**Questioner 9:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Repeat after me: **So what?**

**Questioner 9:** So what? Big deal. So I lose a deal. Big deal. I'll get another. I'll learn from it and rearrange things and attract what I need and get another. It's not permanent. All right. I made a little mistake, but I learned. Isn't that the point of mistakes? To go down roads to discover what doesn't work so that you can discover what does.

The difficulty that you've created for yourself is in your negative reaction to certain scenarios. Right? Well, you have to not react negatively to those scenarios to get them to work for you. Because if you don't put a positive meaning into even that kind of circumstance, you're never going to get the positive effect from that circumstance. You're only going to get the negative one based on the negative meaning you put into that thing happening. Make sense? Mhm.

So what you are now going to be practicing, I assume... tell me please... is the idea that no matter what happens, as you build your business, as you follow your excitement, no matter what happens, you are going to *know*—not guess, not wonder, not even believe—you're going to *know* that what just happened, whatever it is, is going to serve you like never before. Okay. You have to know that. And thus, when you know that, you will behave like you know it. Okay. It won't be, "Ooh, that happened. Ooh." Look at the body language. "Oh no. Oh no." Okay. You think this is the right vibration to find a solution? No. Do you understand? Yes. You need to be her. Okay. In all circumstances. No matter what.

**Questioner 9:** Are you her? Is that who you prefer to be?

**Questioner 9:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Then that's who you must behave like. No matter what. Because that's what she would do. You understand? That's what she would do. No matter what. Because that's the kind of life she lives. Because that's the kind of life she prefers to live. No matter what. And she knows the sacred mantra: "So what?" This happened. So what. All right. I've learned something. Let's pick ourselves up and move forward. Okay. That's the behavior. That's the stance. That's the body language. That's the energy. Make sense? Mhm. Are you sure?

**Questioner 9:** Yeah. All right. Okay. And I have another question. Yes. The glyphs. Those... the sacred circuits. Yeah. Yes. Okay. I've been staring at him, and it's like, because I maybe because I've been so negative, I'm trying to get something to work. Is there... you sure? Try a lot. I know I do. I know I do.

**Bashar:** Do you not see how the very definition of what you're saying includes the formula for defeat? No. Yes. I try. Which means you don't really believe it's going to work. You're just trying it. Okay. You're not gravitating to it. You're not attracting yourself to it, knowing that it's just a reflection. You're trying to get that to work. It's just a permission slip. All tools are permission slips. The tool only triggers the ability for you to give yourself permission to be who you are. The tool doesn't do it for you. You have to attract yourself to whatever tool—if you need a tool at all—that is simply aligned with your belief system so that the tool will trigger you to allow yourself to give yourself permission to let it be. All right. To be who you know you would prefer to be. Okay. You can't try to get the circuit to work for you. You just have to find that *you* work for *it*. You gravitate. It's a relationship. You work together. You work with it. You understand? Mhm. But if you don't find that, in that sense, you are attracted to it, then attract what does reflect permission to you. You have to use your imagination and open up to the possibility that something else may work for you. But the bottom line is, you're the one who's changing. You're the one who's working. These are just reflections. They're just reflections. Do you understand this? You're trying too hard. You need to relax. Relax. What's your rush? You're an eternal infinite being. What's your hurry? Where are you going? The only place you're ever going to wind up is right here and right now. Anytime you look around, what time is it?

**Questioner 9:** Now.

**Bashar:** Oh. What time is it?

**Questioner 9:** Now.

**Bashar:** What's your hurry? Where have you got to go in such a rush? Rush? Well, slow down. Enjoy. Be here. Enjoy whatever you're doing. Enjoy it. Does that help you?

**Questioner 9:** It does. Thank you. Thank you. I love you, Bashar.

**Bashar:** Our unconditional love to you as well. And now, and then, take a few deep breaths.

*(Applause)*

***

# Q&A Session 10

**Questioner 10:** Hello Bashar. Any of you? Good day. How are you?

**Bashar:** Perfect. And you? Doing pretty well. Now, one moment. When I say perfect, I mean that at this moment, I am the perfect version of whatever I am at this moment. I will change. You will change. But whatever you are any given moment, whatever that definition is, is a perfect representation of that definition. It doesn't mean you won't grow. It doesn't mean you won't change. Perfect does not mean an end.

**Questioner 10:** I see. I want to thank you for, first of all, for um, especially for the people of Essassani. All right. For being participants and co-creators during this time. And it is our pleasure. And having your ships placed so strategically, I appreciate that. All right. Um, it seems to be quite an effort.

**Bashar:** So an effort? No effort at all. Remember, we don't do anything that doesn't excite us.

**Questioner 10:** I see. Do you? I'm seeing. Thank you. Um, so the thing that's most on my mind is the idea of being torn between two possibilities, two possible paths. Sounds painful. Yeah. Being torn. Yes. A little bit. Why are you torn? Um, are they both equally exciting?

**Questioner 10:** They seem to be.

**Bashar:** Do you have the same degree of ability to take action on both of them?

**Questioner 10:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Then it doesn't matter which way you go. Because if one, in that sense, needs to end or divert, you then it will automatically contain the synchronicity that will turn you toward the other one when it needs to.

**Questioner 10:** I've been looking for all the hints, all the clues of synchronicity, and I'm getting signals in both directions.

**Bashar:** Yeah. And I have... there you are. Making two definitions where only one needs to exist. Remember that sometimes what appear to be two different things that excite you are just two different expressions of the same overall umbrella excitement.

**Questioner 10:** Oh, I see. So maybe this is all just drama that's exciting to me.

**Bashar:** Maybe. You don't have to make it seem like it's a tug of war and you're torn. It could just be that both things are representative of your excitement as expressions of your excitement. And therefore, it doesn't really much matter which one you do at any given moment, since all excitement is connected to all other excitement.

**Questioner 10:** Yes. Um, so does this help you, or is this only causing more tears?

**Questioner 10:** No, it's... it's definitely going in the right direction. Right. Whichever one that is.

**Bashar:** All right. Um, can you, in your imagination, come up with an overall umbrella excitement that these two things you talking about could be expressions of?

**Questioner 10:** I'm still working on it.

**Bashar:** All right. Well, why don't you define what appears to you to be two different exciting things? What are they?

**Questioner 10:** One would be to move to a different location, such as Japan.

**Bashar:** All right.

**Questioner 10:** And the second would be to stay here.

**Bashar:** Yes. And stay. And you can't go back and forth?

**Questioner 10:** Well, it involves a relationship as well.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right. And you can't go back and forth because your so-called explanation that it involves a relationship doesn't mean anything to me in terms of your ability to go back and forth.

**Questioner 10:** Yes. Okay. So it would involve living in a different location than my partner wants to live in. So my girlfriend wants to be here forever and never move and never go anywhere.

**Bashar:** No, not forever. All right. Is she willing to go back and forth?

**Questioner 10:** Uh, no. I don't think so.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right. Are your differences compatible? Because that's the secret to a working relationship. The similarities take care of themselves. The issue is: are your differences compatible?

**Questioner 10:** Um, for the time being.

**Bashar:** Compatible. Um, for the time being. All right. But if they become non-compatible, then things change. Yeah. There you go. Does that provide a solution for you, or does that cause more tearing?

**Questioner 10:** It raises the question for me: in which direction do they change?

**Bashar:** In which direction? Always the direction of your preference. Exactly.

**Questioner 10:** So I have to decide my preference.

**Bashar:** Exactly. So once you decide your preference, then you will know what to do. And the idea may be that you need a bigger definition to include something larger. I see. Because maybe your definition of a relationship is limited in such a manner as to make this seem like a problem when it may not actually be. Okay.

Um, with regard to the chakra centers of the earth, did that help you?

**Questioner 10:** It did. This is on the same... I'm not getting derailed. I'm going to bring it back together. Um, the experience will be different depending on what region you're in. Surely. Yes. If you make a difference of it. Yes. Um, I mean, thematically, with regard to the chakra centers. Yes. So, um, what are... what could I expect? Nothing. In okay. If I want to align myself with the one that's closest to my vibration, yes. Which should I choose? How? What signs do I look for? How do I intrinsically know?

**Bashar:** Um, which direction are you taking action every moment that you can, to the best of your ability, on whatever does excite you, taking it as far as you can?

**Questioner 10:** That means no. I'd take it pretty far. Pretty far. I don't... I haven't thought of that. Maybe I'm not... maybe I'm like 99%.

**Bashar:** Let me ask you another question. What do you get out of this tug of war?

**Questioner 10:** Oh, yes. I get the comfort of knowing that I made the correct decision so I don't have to go and backtrack and think about...

**Bashar:** No, no, no. That's not what I'm asking you. In the situation in which you perceive yourself to be torn in two directions, what are you getting out of creating that scenario for yourself?

**Questioner 10:** I'm not certain yet.

**Bashar:** All right. Is there anything in this situation you're using as a lever or a permission slip of some kind? What we are simply suggesting is: are you using one to leverage the other?

**Questioner 10:** I've considered that. Yes. All right. And are you doing that?

**Questioner 10:** I haven't decided to do that yet. I think I'm going to do that. But it's... they definitely are related to one another.

**Bashar:** Yes. But we're also talking about the idea whether you do that in a positive or a negative way. Sure.

**Questioner 10:** So I want to make it the best for others who are involved as well. Obviously respecting... you just found the secret. Did you hear it?

**Bashar:** I can you give me a hint here?

**Bashar:** There is a balancing act here. Yes. The primary thing is to act on your highest joy, to be true to yourself. Yes. Your conundrum is: what is yourself? The idea also, then, to answer that question, is: in being true to yourself, are you also being of service to others? Right?

**Questioner 10:** That's what I want to maintain. That's what I want to do. That's my goal.

**Bashar:** So the idea, thus then, of the relationship is: having this relationship in this form representative of A) being true to yourself and her being true to herself, and B) if you decide on whatever you decide, is that decision also based on not only being true to yourself but being of service to her? I see.

**Questioner 10:** So if I'm not being honest with myself 100%, then it's not being of service to her anyway. So I have to consider... yes.

**Bashar:** And therefore, what you are dealing with here is an issue of clarity and being honest with yourself about what is really most important to you, vibrationally speaking, that represents your highest joy. And knowing that you can contain many things within that, but you may be setting up a contradiction for yourself to give yourself the opportunity to really decide what you actually truly desire.

**Questioner 10:** Yeah. I want to be a responsible decision and not just an impulse.

**Bashar:** So all right. Now, do you meditate?

**Questioner 10:** Not currently. Well, not... that's not entirely true. Um, very little. Very little currently.

**Bashar:** All right. Over the next three nights, we would suggest that you simply get into a relaxed posture, a state of repose, of meditation if you wish. And over the next three nights, ask for assistance for clarification of who you truly are, vibrationally. And over the next three nights, you can receive assistance to help clarify the situation for you. Do not be afraid of what you see. Okay. All right. Thank you very much. Just go with it. Let it sink in. Don't have to make a hasty decision. Just allow it to sink in in a manner until you are certain you have absolute clarity about your relationship to the circumstance and everyone in it. Clarity about your relationship to everyone in the situation and the situation itself as to why you believe you find it exciting. Because sometimes clarity can show you that something you may actually be labeling as excitement may not be, and something you're not labeling as excitement might be. You need absolute precise clarity as to what is truly exciting and what may simply be being disguised as excitement because it's something you may wish to avoid. Do you understand?

**Questioner 10:** See. Thank you very much. Thank you.

***

# Q&A Session 11

**Questioner 11:** All P. And you, good day. Um, I'm just going to read off this because I... it... are you reading us a story?

**Bashar:** Not really. But uh, all right. Uh, first off, uh, what is the Buddha? And is a Buddha a being who has achieved a complete body? If so, is a complete body the same as a light body or a rainbow body? And is this something your people are also trying to achieve?

**Bashar:** We try nothing. We simply are what we are. And we are evolving to higher light states even as you are. As you are going from third density to fourth density, euphemistically, we are going from fourth to fifth. A Buddha, in that sense, is that which reflects and emanates and represents and is aligned with the collective World Spirit, the collective consciousness of all beings on your planet and in your sphere of influence. Okay. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 11:** Yes. All right. Uh, going with that, um, why is it that... uh, people are... uh, the humans... why do they... why do some people put so much emphasis on meditation to obtain Enlightenment?

**Bashar:** Because that may be the way that works for them. It doesn't have to work that way for everyone. But they may have attracted themselves to the methodology that they believe works best for them. By quieting the self, very often they can, shall we say, get around the mental chatter that they may believe keeps them from knowing themselves more clearly. Meditation can be one of the ways in which that is done. But there are many forms of meditation as well. Sometimes just standing in the shower can be the strongest form of meditation if you simply let your worries melt away. Whatever works for you works for you. Make sense? Because remember, even in the Buddhist texts is the idea that physical reality and being fully in physical reality is sometimes the most spiritual thing you can do. Hence the phrase: "Chop wood, carry water." That's also a meditation. Just doing the things you do in life can also be a meditation if you do it with the appropriate relationship. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 11:** Yes. Um, going with that, yes... wh... why... kind of draw a blank here. Well, all right. You have achieved a Buddhist state. Wh... why is it that the Buddha... no, you answered your own question and then you removed it from yourself again. But go ahead. Probably. Um, so yes. But why is it that Shakyamuni Buddha taught that we are in a state of Samsara and that we must try to get out of there?

**Bashar:** Is no trying. The idea is to understand that what was being said is that it is important to form a sense of attached detachment to physical reality so that you do not become overwhelmed or immersed too deeply in the idea of physical reality so that it appears to be, in that sense, a straitjacket. For some people, certain methodologies work. And you must understand, there are many belief systems that exist on your planet, aren't there?

**Questioner 11:** Aren't there? Yes.

**Bashar:** Therefore, there have to be different teachers to address the different belief systems. So the Buddha will address certain belief systems that work for certain people, and other beings will address different belief systems that work for others. Period. Remember that any belief system must make itself appear to be the only belief system that works in order for it to work for the people that believe it. Make sense?

**Questioner 11:** Yes. Uh, that's how beliefs work. If beliefs didn't make themselves appear to be the only belief that would work, no beliefs would work. You wouldn't have an experiential physical reality. So any belief system must make itself appear to be exclusive to other beliefs, or that belief won't work for the people that are attracted to use it.

**Bashar:** Okay. Um, going with that, yes. What about the idea of suffering? And what about it? And karma?

**Bashar:** Karma is self-imposed. So is suffering. The idea is that polarity exists. And yes, there are challenges. You don't have to suffer. And in a sense, the whole point of suffering is to learn that you don't need to suffer anymore. Which is similar to the idea of karma. The whole idea of learning about karma is to recognize that as soon as you understand that karma is self-imposed, there is no more karma. There is always balance, but that's not in the sense of the old idea of karma that there is some sort of punishment or forced idea upon the person.

**Questioner 11:** Okay. So if there is self... if it's self-imposed, yes. Then what about the people that go and they do very bad things to other people? Negative things.

**Bashar:** Negative things. They will experience the consequences of those actions. But you could call it karma, but we simply call it the third law: what you put out is what you get back. It's simply physics. Karma is nothing but physics. But we remove the idea of the word because we know that in ancient times, the connotation of the word karma carried a value judgment. And there's no value judgment to it. It's just physics. Positive energy is integrative and expansive. Negative energy is segregative and destructive. So the idea is that if someone exhibits negative energy, they're going to experience the consequences of segregation and destruction upon themselves at some point. And to balance that out, they simply must do positive energy things to balance it out. Now, if you want to call that karma, that's fine. But all we're simply saying is that version of karma is all there is. And all it is is physics: what you put out is what you get back.

**Questioner 11:** So after death, yes. Is it possible for that... for the effects of that to carry over to after somebody dies?

**Bashar:** Yes. So that's yes. But only to the degree that they are willing to explore it. Very often, when people on your planet die, they will immediately experience a reality that is based on the strongest thing they believe they will experience after they die. If they don't have a particular belief, then they will simply get the results of whatever the combination of their beliefs happen to be, both positive and negative. But very soon, they will learn very quickly—because there is not the same kind of time and space in non-physical reality—very quickly, they will learn that they control that and that they can create whatever they want. Now, "quickly" is relative. Sometimes, compared to the idea of the time frame of physical reality, it may seem as if a spirit may go through the idea of that kind of self-evaluation and self-balancing over what may appear to be thousands of years. Or it can appear to happen in a split second. Because time is relative in that sense. But it just depends on the vibrational relationship between that particular spirit and physical reality in terms of how that's perceived. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 11:** I'll trying to inter... uh, take that.

**Bashar:** We are saying all that we are saying is that every single thing you do has consequences and ripples within the idea of existence. And there is nowhere to run away from it. So at some point, at some state, at some stage, everything that is done, once the barriers drop, once the illusion of separation goes away, you will experience the energy of everything that has been done by you. But the idea is that you will learn from that experience what it is you now wish to do with that experience. And you can decide to do anything you want with it. But the idea is that as you learn what you can do, that you automatically become a more balanced being because you're willing to learn from every experience, both positive and negative. And the more you're willing to allow yourself to learn from every experience, the more balanced you become. And the more positive experiences you then choose from that point forward. Even though you always have the option to choose negative ones, they just become equal choices at a certain point of enlightenment. And you simply choose what you prefer without devaluing what you don't. Okay. Does that make sense?

**Questioner 11:** Yes. All right. Here on Earth, we have a problem with, u, the example is mosquitoes. Mosquitoes. Yes. And uh, well, not everyone has a problem with them, you know. Okay. Maybe not everyone. But um, all right. I want to use this an example. If mosquito... if I'm meditating, yes. And if mosquito is coming around me biting me, and if I include the mosquito in the meditation...

**Bashar:** The idea of enlightenment is integration, not exclusion. So whatever is happening in your reality, if you include it as part of your experience, you will see how you can incorporate it and expand, rather than attempting to exclude and thus diminish. Make sense?

**Questioner 11:** What if I can't include it and I end up killing it?

**Bashar:** Then you do. And thus then, you will learn from that at some level as to whether or not that's what you prefer to do. And perhaps from that, from learning what you, in a sense, do not prefer to do, you will then more clearly understand what you do prefer to do. But it's something... something uh, to me that seems so trivial.

**Bashar:** As to it's not trivial. Nothing is. Okay. So killing that mosquito is not trivial. Yes. And um, and yet at the same time, it's up to you to decide utterly what you will do with that experience. So there are consequences with even that behavior. Yes. Of course. But the word "consequence" only means that there is, in a sense, a response. There is a vibration that is accounted for. The word itself, consequence, is not negative. It simply means you have to take stock. You have to take account of everything that you have created, one way or another. So it's now, by doing any act at all, it's now on your ledger book. It adds up to the bottom line. And it determines what you now have to deal with.

**Questioner 11:** So for somebody with a high spirituality, if they committed an act like that, would they have serious consequences?

**Bashar:** Serious is relative. There is consequences. But depending upon the individual and why they chose to do it, the consequences would be commensurate. And the response and the awareness would be commensurate with why they did that. You are describing the idea of an individual, you say, is very highly spiritually enlightened. So it begs the question as to why that kind of an experience would actually have even been attracted into their lives. For if they are highly spiritual and that kind of an experience happened, then probably it happened for a very spiritual reason, and they would know that. Okay. Perhaps in that case, for example, they simply acted out of spirituality and by doing so prevented someone else from catching malaria. And they knew that. Do you understand? And you have to look at it also from the mosquito's point of view. Because the mosquito consciousness may have attracted itself to that enlightened person to give that enlightened person an opportunity to decide also which way the mosquito's energy and consciousness should also go in that reality. And perhaps the mosquito wanted to transition to another level and use the Buddha to do it. Okay. So who's the enlightened one?

**Questioner 11:** Okay. Um, I spent... I spent most of my... allow others an opportunity to interact. Okay. I'm sorry.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Thank you. You do not need to apologize. Okay. Thank you.

***

# Q&A Session 12

**Questioner 12:** Good evening, Bashar. And do you good day. Speak up and be bold so that all may hear what you have to share. I'm on the brink of making some big changes in my life.

**Bashar:** Sounds exciting.

**Questioner 12:** And I feel like is it... yes. And I feel like I'm changing as a person. My perception of...

**Bashar:** How can you not change as a person when you make a change in your life? Do you understand what it means to be a person? Do you know what a person is?

**Questioner 12:** I'm a person.

**Bashar:** Do you know what you are as a person? A person, in that sense, is a projection, a mask of consciousness created out of the idea of beliefs, emotions, and thought actions, behaviors. Okay. So the idea is that any change you make changes the balance of those things and literally—this is not an analogy—literally changes the person you are. I don't care if you think you still look the same in the mirror. You're not the same person from moment to moment. Literally. When you really wrap your mind around that, you will understand how profoundly you can experience true change. Because every change is a total change of everything everywhere. Right? You are actually shifting from one parallel reality to another and are a different person in that reality. Literally. So yes, of course, you are going to make a change, and you are going to be a different person. But in having said that, you already have made a change and are already a different person than began this conversation. Yes.

**Questioner 12:** So I'm just wondering if I'm on the right path.

**Bashar:** Are you on the path where you are being your true self to the best of your ability and following your highest joy? Hesitation means no.

**Questioner 12:** The only reason that I hesitate is because I feel that the changes that I make will affect others in my life.

**Bashar:** And are you, in that sense, willing to be responsible to them without being responsible for the decisions they choose to make of how to react to your changes? Can you be clear and honest in your communication about why you are making the changes you are making so they understand who you are and why you're making those changes?

**Questioner 12:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Do you give them an opportunity to give you some advice and some insight, and that you yourself will then decide what to apply in your life?

**Questioner 12:** Um, yes. I feel that... um, all right.

**Bashar:** Then you have done everything you need to do. And any reaction they have that is incompatible with your choices is their issue, not yours. Okay. Do you follow? Mhm. As long as you are being clear and open in your communication with regard to who you are, then they know who they are in a relationship with. And you can give them an opportunity to decide whether they wish to continue to be in a relationship with the "you" you have defined yourself to be. If they decide they do, then they will change accordingly. If they decide they don't, then they won't. But you have given them the opportunity. You've been responsible to them. You can't be responsible for them or whatever their reactions are going to be. Okay. Make sense?

**Questioner 12:** Makes sense. Another question. Yes. I feel like I've been asking for signs lately, and I feel like I've been receiving them. But sometimes I wonder if they're coincidence. Is there such thing as...

**Bashar:** There is no such thing as an accident. Okay. You create synchronicity. And sometimes synchronicity is messages from guides and other beings. But the idea, nevertheless, is that you are creating your own road signs, are attracting them to yourself. Everything is an orchestration. And even though there is randomness in physical reality, what it is you decide to do freezes that randomness into a particular synchronistic path. So it's not an accident in that sense. It's all an orchestration. Sometimes certain things within the orchestration may not have the same degree of relevance to you that it might have to someone else. But that doesn't mean it's an accident. Okay. You understand? Even when many of you are, to use one of your situations, sitting in traffic, it is no accident who's around you. It is no accident that you are around them. Look around and you will see more signs. Instead of assuming that something is wrong and that you are stuck, it's all an orchestration. There is no accident to the timing of anything. Because it's not about time; it's about timing. Make sense?

**Questioner 12:** Yes. Do that help you?

**Questioner 12:** Yes. So I should follow these signs?

**Bashar:** Should you? Can I? And if I don't, then is that not following my true path? In many ways, you can ignore the signs. That is your option. However, your reality will show you in no uncertain terms if you start going against the grain of your own true self. Because then your reality will have negative synchronicity, and things will become very, very sluggish and difficult for you. All pain is the result of resistance to the natural self. But that's the joy of the pain. It shows you: "Hey, you're swimming upstream. Why don't you relax and go with the flow?" You understand?

**Questioner 12:** Yes. Thank you. Does that help you?

**Questioner 12:** Yes, it does. Thank you. Then flow. Okay. Good.

***

# Q&A Session 13

**Questioner 13:** Evening, Bashar. And you, good day. Um, last June, uh, I talked to you about the idea of a soulmate. Yes. And you said the idea of just feeling always feeling like I'm in love, 'cuz that's why we're in love, because we like that feeling of being in love. Because that is the natural state, right? And a soulmate can be anyone you're interacting with at any given moment who teaches you something about yourself. Well, I'm thinking more in the line of a romantic relationship.

**Bashar:** Yes. I know you are. Nevertheless, understand that a soulmate doesn't necessarily always have to come in that form, although it can. Okay. And so, um, I've worked on my belief system, and I've cleared a lot of things in other areas of my life. There are things manifesting like crazy, and I'm very excited.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right.

**Questioner 13:** Um, in this matter of soulmate, I would like you to go with me to what happened a couple of weeks ago because I wanted to explore the last layers of belief system that I may have regarding this issue.

**Bashar:** Right. Then by all means. What happened?

**Questioner 13:** Um, I don't really want to talk about it. I met someone...

**Bashar:** If you're not going to be able to be of much help to you if you don't share.

**Questioner 13:** Well, can't you go with me in my mind?

**Bashar:** If I to some degree. But if you're unwilling to open the door, we can't open it. Well, I mean, we only work by permission.

**Questioner 13:** Okay. I give you absolute permission.

**Bashar:** Um, then what happened?

**Questioner 13:** Okay. I met someone very briefly. Yes. As you would say, or not as humanity would say, accidentally. But I know there was no accident about it. And the energy of this person just really meshed with mine. And he expressed somewhat of an interest. And but it didn't come to fruition. And I understand that I can look at this experience and say "so what." Yes. But I would like to go to the next layer of really understanding what my belief system is. Because when I go in my mind visualizing him, his energy is so perfect with mine. Do you understand?

**Bashar:** What we have said about the idea of your physical mind's capability to visualize? Yes. Therefore, you understand that even though you are using him as a symbol of the ideal relationship, he is only a symbol at the moment.

**Questioner 13:** Absolutely.

**Bashar:** All right. Then it doesn't matter whether it comes to fruition with him or someone else. Because if it's only a symbol, your higher mind and your synchronicity will bring you the person with whom the actual vibration that the symbol represents can be experienced. So it doesn't matter whether it's him or someone else. You understand?

**Questioner 13:** Absolutely. It might be him. But you don't know that yet. Right. But I do want to explore my belief system about why, if this is a possibility, why it didn't happen. Because I know there is some belief system in my thoughts that does not allow this manifestation to come through. May it be him?

**Bashar:** You really truly believe you're ready?

**Questioner 13:** Yes. Yes, I am.

**Bashar:** But there is one. Is he actually truly compatible on all the levels you actually prefer him to be?

**Questioner 13:** I don't know.

**Bashar:** Well, there you go.

**Questioner 13:** But wouldn't I have to go on a date with him and explore? Maybe not.

**Bashar:** So are you saying that the reason that it hasn't come to fruition is that maybe he hasn't hit all the points that I'm... maybe so. May I ask you a question?

**Questioner 13:** Yes.

**Bashar:** When it, as you put in your language, did not come to fruition, were you disappointed?

**Questioner 13:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Yes. Then that's why it didn't come to fruition. Okay. Do you understand what I'm saying? Yeah. The situation proved to you that you still carry disappointment and are not truly living in the moment. So you're not actually yet the person to whom someone like that could be attracted. Right? Do you understand?

**Questioner 13:** Yes. So what you're not using what did happen in a positive... in a positive way.

**Bashar:** So I'm not saying "so what" appointed your yourself from that position. You understand? You disappointed yourself from that relationship.

**Questioner 13:** Okay. Could you explain that please?

**Bashar:** You removed yourself from the proper appointment. Dis-appointed. I did. Yes. Well, then that proves that that's what it served. It reflected to you that you still carry that energy because you did not get what you expected to get. So you still had the expectation and didn't allow it to be. Didn't allow the relationship to be what it actually was. You put your expectation on what you thought it needed to be. Right?

**Questioner 13:** And I have that. And that's not what you actually want to do in an ideal relationship.

**Bashar:** No. I always get disappointed and say, "Okay, well, there I miss the boat again." Or you didn't miss anything if you allow yourself to learn that you do not need to be disappointed when what you expect to happen doesn't happen. Then you will break through that particular threshold. So back to the "so what," in a sense. Yes. Okay. Okay. It didn't come to fruition. We didn't go on a date. So what? Right. Then allow yourself to see what happens from there synchronistically. Right. Because if he is synchronistically right, because if he is going to be representative of that soulmate, something will happen to bring him back. And remember, it's not him anyway. Because now he's a different person. Doesn't matter that he looks similar to the other guy. It's not him. Do you understand? It's not the same person. Because he had to come as a different version when you changed into a different version. So he is not the same person that was there a moment ago that didn't go on a date with you. Okay. So it's not the same person anyway. So it doesn't matter that it's not the same person. Because it never is. Right? No matter how they look. Okay. That's just an illusion of continuity. Okay. Are you understanding this?

**Questioner 13:** Yes. Right. So okay. Okay. I got it. I got it. One really quick question after that. Um, after getting together with you and your information and your knowledge, my life is really moving really fast. I'm very...

**Bashar:** Congratulations for making it your own knowledge. It's very exciting.

**Questioner 13:** It is. Um, one aspect of who I am has is not moving along with me.

**Bashar:** Are you sure?

**Questioner 13:** Absolutely.

**Bashar:** Is this another expectation?

**Questioner 13:** Well, um, it's it's about my hair loss. Yes. And um, because I... are you becoming more Essassani?

**Questioner 13:** Yeah. I don't have any hair.

**Bashar:** Well, I'm a woman. I need to have hair.

**Questioner 13:** Why do you need to have hair?

**Questioner 13:** Because it's taken away from what I look like. So am I becoming an Essassani? I don't think I'm ready for that.

**Bashar:** Not many of you are. Yeah. Nevertheless, nevertheless, if this is my reality and my life, and I have a say in it, I'd like to have hair.

**Bashar:** All right. Then have hair.

**Questioner 13:** So how can I... what is it about the belief system that I'm not able to change?

**Bashar:** Because when you allow what is to be what needs to be, then you can change it. Right? When you don't allow it to be what it is, you have no control over it.

**Questioner 13:** I totally... that's the issue. I totally understand that.

**Bashar:** But no, not totally. Well, because you would be asking this question because it freaks me out.

**Questioner 13:** Then you don't totally understand it. Because when you totally understand it, it won't freak you out. It will calm you down.

**Questioner 13:** Well, can you help me understand it?

**Bashar:** I just did.

**Questioner 13:** Well, it went right over my head.

**Bashar:** Right over your hairless head. That's right. When you stop needing things to be a certain way, you have the ability to allow them to be however you prefer them to be. So stop needing things to be a certain way.

**Questioner 13:** Okay. All right. Got it. Thank you. Thank you.

***

# Q&A Session 14

**Questioner 14:** Hello, Bashar. Canone of you? Good day. You. Hello, Bashar. Canone of you? Good day. Um, I had an experience with the sacred circuit. Yes. And I wanted to find out if I could get some clarification from you.

**Bashar:** All right. By all means. Share.

**Questioner 14:** Um, I had an idea to make the sacred circuits into three-like, three-dimensional. Yes. So I did that. And I have a friend who's a psychic healer. So what we do is we take whatever of the circuits we like, and we put them like on our... where our heart chakra is. Yes. And we meditate with them. Yes. And um, during one of these meditations, we got in touch with, I think, an alien race of beings called The Turquoise People.

**Bashar:** Well, that's your interpretation. Yeah. They don't call themselves that.

**Questioner 14:** Oh, okay. Well, well, that's how... that's sort of how we interpret them. Yes. And so they were very dense. They seemed very ancient. And so I've been trying to do research on them, and no one has written anything about them. So I wanted to find out... not for thousands of years. So who are you? Won't find any records left.

**Bashar:** I know. But so there's no one else who's gotten in touch with that?

**Questioner 14:** Oh, yes. Energy. But not for a long time on your planet in terms of your history. And no records remain of those initial encounters.

**Bashar:** So who are they?

**Questioner 14:** They are those that have to do with the relationship that you can have with consciousness that you would more likely than not call rocks. They are that level of consciousness that has to do with what seems to be fixed, but to themselves, they are not. It is an invitation to dive into a different level of consciousness whereby you can hear the Earth speak. They told us that they create worlds.

**Bashar:** Yes. And they are worlds. They are worlds. Okay. And they also create like computer beings who then go on to create worlds.

**Questioner 14:** Well, "computer" is a euphemism translation in your language. What they are actually saying is they can create certain patterns of energy that will create a template upon which new worlds can be born.

**Bashar:** Exactly. That. But yeah, I guess because when we were doing the channeling, that was the only way we could sort of interpret it. Yes. How? Okay. So that makes sense. Because then we sort of channeled that being that created this world. And then we found out we had a connection with that person.

**Bashar:** Well, of course. Because you're all offshoots of the same being, right? Everyone remember that there is a collective consciousness and multiple layers of collections of consciousness that are connected to the idea you call your world.

**Questioner 14:** So if no one's been in touch with who... what's their proper name if they're not called The Turquoise People?

**Bashar:** Different cultures in your ancient past had different names for them. You can call them that if you wish. I'm just saying it's your interpretation. They look like they were T... I mean, I knew there were rocks 'cuz they felt like they had that sort of dense rock type of energy. But and they looked turquoise. Yes. So that's why we call them the Turquoise People. That's right. I'm not saying it's wrong. I'm just saying that that's not what they call themselves. There is no translation in your language for what they call themselves.

**Questioner 14:** So does that mean they're an... so they are an alien race?

**Bashar:** They are alien to you, but not alien as you mean it. They're not of Earth. They are, to some degree, connected with your planet, but not in the way you think. You must look at this as a kind of a primal, archetypal, autonomous consciousness that exists in a certain kind of matrix or pattern of energy that is very dense and has to do with the formation of planets.

**Questioner 14:** Okay. So I'm just wondering why your scientists have not yet understood when they talk about the idea of the forces of nature and the forces of physics that cause solar systems to be born, they have not yet discovered that there is consciousness connected to this. These beings are that consciousness.

**Bashar:** Oh, they were amazingly intelligent. I mean, of course. More... it requires intelligence to create planets. I mean, they were... I mean, it was really hard to even be in that energy because it was so dense.

**Questioner 14:** It is very dense. And you are not used to it. It's like going into the deep, deep ocean where the pressure is very great. I could barely understand them. But my friend, who's the psychic healer—who's an amazing psychic healer—she actually loved talking to them and all this other stuff. But I'll give you a close approximation. Have you ever heard the rumble of an earthquake?

**Questioner 14:** Yes.

**Bashar:** That's what they call themselves.

**Questioner 14:** Earthquake? No, no, no, no, no. Earthquake? The actual sound?

**Bashar:** Oh, the actual vibration of molecules that to you reads as the rumble in an earthquake is what they call themselves. The closest, perhaps, if you wish another name, would be Prime Movers. Okay. But you can call them the Turquoise People. They don't care. They were turquoise. And I... they keep saying I need to get a turquoise for whatever reason. Because they're simply suggesting that the vibration of your interpretation of them would allow you to find a stronger connection to them through that particular symbol. Because that's how you interpreted the energy for yourself. Other people would see them in a variety of different ways. Okay. The channel himself actually has a representation of them in a rock, a small rock that is actually literally split down the middle 50/50 black and white. That's his interpretation. And why he was attracted to that rock. Because he is also seeing the polarity in them. So from his perspective, he might call them the 50/50 People or the Black and White Rock People. Okay. Or from an artistic point of view, Chiaroscuro.

**Questioner 14:** I actually know what that means. It is the play and the interplay of shadow and light. Right. Um, so is there some sort of thing related to my path? And that's the reason that I need to get in touch with them?

**Bashar:** So the idea, again, is that you are being given a hint of a permission slip that will work for you to help you connect with very deep Earth vibrations. To ground you, to balance you, and allow you to reach for the heavens at the same time without worrying about becoming too dizzy in the heights. They will keep your feet firmly planted on the ground while you're exploring the stars. Okay. That makes sense.

**Questioner 14:** All right. Then, um, my other question is: when I made the sacred circuits into three-dimensional objects, yes, they're like people now.

**Bashar:** Yes. Remember that everything is consciousness and everything is autonomous. They're like children. And they're... they talk a lot and they're rowdy and chatty circuits. They are.

**Questioner 14:** So is there some way that I'm supposed to like interact? Where's your imagination?

**Bashar:** Where's mine? Yes. Where's your imagination? Did you lose it?

**Questioner 14:** No.

**Bashar:** Then use your imagination and figure out what's best for you to talk with them. Okay. That's what your imagination is for. Because your imagination is the conduit of communication from your higher mind to your physical mind. And it's key to your specific vibration. So whatever you are attracted to, use whatever methodology, whatever tool, whatever technique you are inspired to use through your imagination. Will be the technique that works best for you in this regard. Okay.

**Questioner 14:** I feel like I'm supposed to like raise them like into adult sacred circuits or whatever.

**Bashar:** And when you do that, it will be a reflective symbol of becoming an adult yourself. Okay. Remember that most of you—no offense—are still children. You understand? Yes. So all these things are and can be used as techniques to raise yourself into the adults you prefer to be.



# Q&A Session 15

**Questioner 15:** Has 13 occurred? Um, should I can you take one question, or should I just go?

**Bashar:** Go.

**Questioner 15:** Last. Yeah. Are you 13?

**Bashar:** Yes. All right. The number of transformation.

**Questioner 15:** Hi Bashar. And do you good day? I miss talking to you a lot.

**Bashar:** How do you miss talking with me? You can speak with me anytime you wish.

**Questioner 15:** Yeah. And I did. All right. Um, I'm going to take only two tiny questions from what I have written. Itty-bitty tiny question. One of them is: I had a dream about a week ago. I've been going through very rough times the last two years.

It turned me to discover my best of the art that's in me.

**Bashar:** All right. Well, thank you for using it in a positive way.

**Questioner 15:** Yeah. I had to. And I did it. Thank you. Uh, so the dream was that I... um, when we discuss the idea of the physics of intention tomorrow, that particular aspect will come to the forefront. Which is the aspect of the aspect of... I had to do it. Yeah. Because I had no other choice. Right. Right. Um, so it was survival in the moment. And it's just the best anyway. The dream was that I created... I knew I was ready to face something little scarier than I could handle.

**Bashar:** Nonsense.

**Questioner 15:** I knew I could handle it. So I created it. I created that I was lucid. Yes. Dreaming of a very scary face, very near me. Scary near me. Yes. It was like a human and squarish but terrifying looking. Yes. And looked straight into my eyes.

So I looked it in the eyes and I said, "You are not allowed here. So I'm going to shift dimensions and just wake up in the dream. And you're not allowed here." And I did. All right. But it was really strong. The way I shifted the whole thing, I kind of directed the... like driving a car.

**Bashar:** Thank you for looking at your face in another reality. It was you. Scared yourself straight.

**Questioner 15:** Yeah. So before I slept, I actually directed that. So how can I use that? And with a little tiny translation from you for parallel realities, I have the idea. And that was what I wanted to explore in that dream. Paint all the different faces you imagine you have in different parallel realities and stare into them one at a time until such time as you realize that you are creating conscious connections between and among them all. Until it becomes an overall gestalt of an amalgamation of a variety of parallel realities that you can call your own connections.

**Questioner 15:** Okay. I get that. Let's say one example for this room. Like about how I see this room in a different way that you see it or anybody sees it.

**Bashar:** Yes. But physically, physically, I still don't get all of the idea of parallel realities. Because it's a projection. So everybody projects their own idea. Yes. And their own screen. Yes. And in that screen, there's a million... there's 200 screens here. Yes. But you all have some degree of consensus agreement. Otherwise, you would not be able to interact. So we're seeing what's common and what's not common. Yes. Okay. Sometimes you see things others don't. Sometimes others see things you don't. But there are certain consensus agreements that allow you to experience or have what you call a shared agreement reality.
