Welcome to 4th Density



All the time as you create time to exist, the evil of your time as you create time. What a wonderful creation for the creation. It is your own illusion, your own understanding of the idea of the way in which you have chosen to express the separation of yourself from all that is.

Now this evening of your time, as we cocreate this evening to exist this interaction, this discussion to exist very well, something a little bit different than what has gone before. We have been discussing for some mighty in these last few nights of your time and with you also we shall discuss this new idea.

Now recognize that this idea, this new idea we will be sharing this evening of your time, this singular notion will now be representative of the timing of certain allowances on your part within yourself. Every idea, and we have shared many ideas with you these past two of your years time, these past two of your orbits around your central star who have shared many ideas. All that we have shared with you now we can tell you has in a sense had a particular structure, a particular focus.

It the vine is now can function as the soil, as the foundation into which this singular crystalline seed, this new idea, can be planted. Now recognize this is not against your will. Only according to your allowance still will this idea take effect. But in the sharing of this idea with you, it will then exist within your consciousness consciously. And in your own timing, according to your own degree of willingness, you can then allow this seed to burst forth, take root in the soil. We have laid down the foundation and bring forth a blossom. That will be what you call the revelation that will allow you to physically, to finally physically perceive the idea of your own transition into fourth density. By physically perceived, I mean that your physical reality once you allow full recognition of the idea we will share with you to exist within you emotionally, knowingly. Your physical reality will change as you have not seen it change for thousands of years. And it can be in what you call the twinkling of an eye. Will be up to you.

Now there will be no reason to judge again that the understanding in certain ways will come at different times for different individuals. That is still all a part of the timing. But this idea, this seed idea will be what this revelation change will hinge upon. And now we can discuss this with you consciously rather than subconsciously or unconsciously as we have been doing.

Well, in a sense to review, we have discussed with you many ideas. We have discussed and shared the idea along with many many other entities that you create your own reality, that you create the past and the future from the present. That one moment is not connected to the next. That you create the idea of time. That what you call memory is also still a present creation. That the present is the only time in which you ever exist because it is the only time you can experience any time. We have shared many of these ideas with you and they have all gone into forming their own portion of the structure of the foundation that we have been laying down co-creating together with you by your own allowance, your own accord.

Now the structure is intact in whatever way it needs to be within each and every one of you. We have discussed that your imagination is real, that your dream reality is real, and that only your degree of willingness will allow you to perceive these things as real. Now, what we are going to share with you this evening of your time, this one idea will be delivered in much the same manner as the other ideas. It will seem to be a phrase like many other phrases, but there is a difference. For this is in your terms what will function as the key. And when you decide to turn it, the reality that you unlock will not be the reality you have known. And you will begin to experience not just think about it, not just philosophy about it, but truly physically in your term experience it.

Well, I've discussed with you many ideas about what you call sanity and insanity. Simply the sensing of other realities that are no less real than your own, but simply not the mass agreed upon reality. That what you call sanity is only the mass agreed upon insanity. The idea that everything is an illusion and yet everything is real because you are the creator. You are the gods. The universe is your creation and what you imagine is real and is a portion of that universe and can be really experienced on every level including physicality.

We have discussed with you many times the idea of processes, patterns, rituals, tools, things that you may choose for yourselves to create in order to understand yourselves in the way you chose to understand yourself in the path you chose to be and the manner in which you chose to unfold yourself. All these things will still be valid once we have shared the single idea with you. But in this way you will have now incorporated this new idea which will allow all that we have discussed to create this congruency, this concurrency, this simultaneity, this synchronicity, this explosion of revelation within you.

Before we share this one idea, we will share a few more. We have discussed a few ideas about what you call your brain. Now recognize this. We have told you and your own science has since discovered that every thought you have, every idea that you create physiologically changes the pathways in your brain. It rewires you. Every thought, every thought you have creates new pathways and eliminates the old ones. I do not mean that it opens and closes pathways that do not change. I mean there are pathways where there were none before and where there were pathways, there are none after the thought.

Now, in what you call revelation, the aligning of many different ideas, many different levels of your consciousness at once, the conscious recognition of your alignment in one moment. That is revelation allows there to be a majority or a totality of rewiring in every portion of your brain. For you emerge from that revelation a completely new person. You are in all reality a completely new person in every moment of time that you create. For as we have said one moment is not connected to the next. You recreate yourself over and over and over again in the various moments of time that you also choose to create to create the idea you call a continuity which is an illusion.

Now recognize this. What we have to say will not matter if you have shared with us once, never, or a million times. If you are present this night in this cocreation, you will understand what you need to understand. You do not ever have to have ever been here before. The fact that you are here now will allow you to know that you cannot be anywhere but where you are supposed to be. And in this way, therefore, trust that you will understand the idea on whatever level you need to. And trust that you have the foundation therefore already to understand the idea.

Now when the phrase is delivered again it will not be hypnosis. It will not be implanted against your will. It will simply be allowed into your conscious recognition and you will do with it what you will when you will. But again recognize this. This is the fulcrum seed crystal idea. And if you can understand this, your reality will change.

One more thing about your brains. When you examine the idea, delve into scientifically what you call your brains to understand your mentality, to understand your consciousness, recognize that your brain is wired according to your beliefs. And when you study brains, you study them with your brains. In this way, therefore, recognize that a brain cannot study a brain objectively, for it will only see what it is wired to see. Your reality exists in total. What you see of all that is is only what you are wired to see. Thus, only by changing the idea of yourself will you allow yourself to rewire yourself in ways that will allow you to perceive the reality that exists all around you, but to which you are to all intents and purposes blindness. You will reconnect and connect in ways that will give you different sight, different sense.

Now once this phrase is delivered, many of you once again may feel that you may understand it as you say intellectually but not emotionally. All right. I understand the words you say, but I do not feel any difference. That is all right. That is the way your imagination chooses to accept the idea and the understanding now. But understand it will be there. And that seed is what will explode in your mind, in your brain. Not physical explosion, but energy explosion that will from the inside out rewire completely your brain. And then the reality that you perceive will be a reflection of that rewiring and it will be the fourth density complete at this time.

Therefore, all of you close your eyes and relax and take a deep breath. And if you are feeling feeling, feel them. If you are feeling fear, feel it. Live it. Love it. Enjoy yourself. For you are now all that you need to be in this moment to understand anything that you need to be at any other moment. Take two more breaths. Now simply relax into your imagination and pay attention.

Your present is not the result of your past. Your present is not the result of your past. Your present is not the result of your past. Your present is not the result of your past. Take a deep breath. Followed by two more and you may open your eyes. You may emerge into your natural state of existence in this way.

Recognize that once you allow the explosion of understanding to truly, emotionally, experientially understand that your present is not the result of your past. You will once and for all break the connection to the third density and you will experience things in your physical reality that will be a reflection that you no longer have the need for what you call memory. For you will know everything you need to know in the present. In any situation that you create in the present, you will know what you need to know. You will begin to lose the ideas of the methodologies that you have created that you call learning. In the way you have created it, you will understand that you do not need to learn by process that which you can know by experience in the moment.

Do you all follow me?

Now, from this point forward, you will simply begin in your own rate, at your own timing, to notice the increase of synchronicity in your lives, the ecstatic explosion of coincidence, and perhaps you will begin to forget your past. Do not fear that forgetting for that forgetting is what will allow you to live in the moment and know everything that you need to know to recognize that you are an unlimited being. Now you are an unlimited being. I thank you for your co-creation.

Welcome to fourth density.

---

## Group Conversation

**Man 1:** I was thinking about like just from one moment or a fraction of a moment even to the next. I was thinking about like when I was a kid I used to like jump out of a tree or something from the point that I was say 3 feet above the ground to the point that I was 2 feet above the ground it appears connected but instead I was thinking it like looking at the entire jump as one experience.

**Bashar:** You can simply now recognize that you have the ability to create a type of reality that will allow you to be in the tree in one moment and on the ground the next. If that is what you wish to have a seed one moment and a blossom the next, if that is what you wish, whatever you create in your own universe, you will experience the amount of time you create to experience it in. Someone else may still need to see the blossom take a week. You will not. You will see it be a seed. You will see it be a blossom. And when you turn around to the next individual, they will tell you that they have seen the process of the growth. But you have not. This is the type of reality that fourth density experience is about.

**Man 1:** I was also thinking about like people who jump off the Empire State Building and when they're halfway down, they think maybe I don't want to jump. I mean there are people that have like fallen like 5,000 ft or something and somehow have survived.

**Bashar:** There are many ideas in this some of which is what we have been discussing with you. But simply now you will begin to lose sight of the processes and simply see the events themselves. That is why you will be so accelerated in fourth density. You will not spend time in the process. You will simply live in the moment. And fourth density will simply be one ecstatic moment after another.

**Man 1:** Yeah, I have uh I certainly can go along with it. I think it's all wonderful. I do have a couple of questions about what you said earlier concerning the wiring in our brain. As far as I know, our neurophysiologists first of all have not been able to understand or describe the processes that make up consciousness.

**Bashar:** That is because consciousness is not a product of physicality. Physicality is a product of consciousness.

**Man 1:** Right? But but as far as the memory mechanisms are concerned I don't think that they're considered to be pathways as such they're more electrical activity.

**Bashar:** Pathway is the root of electrical activity, the interaction of electrical activity that is pathway. You follow me?

**Man 1:** I guess it depends how you define pathway.

**Bashar:** Simply take it in whatever way you understand the idea to represent what you call the interaction action that is necessary to define the process you are discussing.

**Man 1:** Ah okay. All right. Thank you. Now as we have said the brain which is what they are using to explore the brain cannot see itself objectively. They will not discover what they are after in a mental way when they include consciousness in their equations to begin with. They will understand what they need to understand. They will not find it analytically. You never find anything analytically. If you think you have, it is only because your consciousness has created an understanding and then you simply take yourself through the process of analyzing to find what you already know.

**Man 2:** Yes, this what you said tonight that our present is not a result of our past you've stated before in other terms. Yes. Many times. You talked about parallel dimensions flipping from one dimension to the next which is basically it has all been there out in the open right and that of course that our moments aren't disconnected those are the same thing. Well, I've been doing something the last couple months that has been applying that information. Coming up to a situation I might perceive that there was something that I didn't prefer. So my methodology was to close my eyes and decide that I was in a different dimension and when I open my eyes I'd be in that different dimension. Yes. And my preference would be manifested in that different dimension. It was quite outstanding. Even changing a traffic jam on the freeway to...

**Bashar:** These are all possibilities for the ebb and flow of physical reality is but your illusion.

**Man 2:** Now mass consciousness has well you stated that our mass consciousness hasn't permitted a lot of this. Yes. But is it I presume that it's beginning to?

**Bashar:** Yes. That is why this is the timing. All ideas we have discussed with you in what you call the path have been related to the processes that were allowed by your mass consciousness. Now instantaneousness is allowed within that context.

**Man 2:** You said that we would be losing our memory of the past in a sense. However does this mean that we could any moment in the past is a moment currently occurring in another dimension?

**Bashar:** Yes. You will simply recognize that you are creating it in the present and accessing a connection to that other dimension in the present. In the present. Yes. Great. It is now not that you are reaching into a past for the information. You are becoming the idea in the present to have the information that you need.

**Man 2:** So we won't really forget anything. Not so to speak.

**Bashar:** But you may find that you will not relate to the idea of a past situation in the way you have related to it previously feeling that your present situation was a result of it. You will make a disconnection emotionally. It will simply be one more so-called past event you have had one more way for you to choose to experience the present nothing more.

**Man 2:** But at the same time you can still understand the reality of other people, you can understand the concept of creating linear time right? We can still relate to these people because we've been there.

**Bashar:** For a while. In fourth density, for the most part, you will still be able to relate to it. Once you allow yourself what is called the end of fourth density and the merging into fifth, you may not relate to it anymore.

**Man 2:** But you said yourself that you are on Etania on third. And that is why we need to form what we have told you is in a sense a simulacrum a model so that we can understand your terminology and your idea and your concepts of how you view time. Otherwise in our society we would not understand you. Right? But we do that in any case whether it's from first to third or third to second or just between third and third when we talk to people we form models of what they're going through.

**Bashar:** Not in that way. Simply what I am saying is that when you are in fifth, sixth and seventh density, the models that you form in this way will be let us say something you are less and less used to forming.

**Man 3:** What about if a person faces sudden death and they get this flash of their entire life in front of their eyes in fourth density? Would there be less likely to have that type of experience?

**Bashar:** Not necessarily, but it may for you simply be the blending from the physical to the non-physical state. Because once you are in the non-physical state, that is what you perceive anyway. The totality of your lives because it is all simultaneous. Simply the reason you perceive that so-called flash is because when people are in their dying point they are very much in the moment. So they perceive the totality of the idea that they are in that moment.

**Man 1:** I thought of that in relation to my idea of perceiving the entire jump out of the tree as one experience and the feeling of going through the air which I love. Not a beginning, not an end, not a cause, not an effect. One event, the idea itself.

**Bashar:** The entire lifetime is one experience. Yes.

**Man 2:** One more question about what we said before. You have said also in the past that as you move through densities each new density contains all the others below it. Yes. Now in that does not mean you have to experience the idea. Simply that you can relate you can create a relationship to the idea consciously.

**Bashar:** You follow me? Whereas what you are and have been doing with fourth density is forming the relationship unconsciously. Now fourth density can look in your terms back to third consciously. Right.

**Man 2:** Yeah. I noticed that it's very exciting process. When I said when I used the phrase spanning dimensions in another experience and your response was in a sense, could you define what you mean by innocence? How is it?

**Bashar:** Only that the idea once again of spanning dimensions is still third density terminology of experiencing the idea of space as being separate things. Perhaps integrating dimensions would be closer.

**Man 2:** Thank you.

**Man 4:** I want to share a creation of mine. I'd gone to the eye doctor because I had an infection so he says in one of my eyes and I got eye drops from him and then I went to work and I parked my car and then about an hour later I went out to get the mail and I'm driving along in my car and I parked at the post office and I looked in my rearview window and there's this bag on the back of my car. I'm thinking, you know, what is this bag doing on the back of my car? It looked like it had something in it. So I went around and I looked in the bag and it was four bags of carrots. Now carrots in our society there symbol of a healthy eyes. So I just got it. I started laughing. Said my eyes are healthy. This is a symbol. So it was great. I didn't need the carrots. I just drove my car back and put the carrots back in the back of my car. When I came out a couple hours later, they were gone.

**Bashar:** Very fun. Very good. Very synchronous. Very creative. You have been having much synchronicity in your life.

**Man 4:** Yes. Thank you.

**Man 2:** Several weeks ago you said that Daryl had been a member of the league, but you yourself had not been a member of league. Wonder how that relates. If you heard Daryl yourself, how could he be part of...

**Bashar:** Daryl is my past self only in the life he has on your planet as Daryl. You follow me? Look at it this way. You have what you call a ladder. Yes. You have rung in between the two sides. Now, one side is one concept of linear time, one universal time track where each rung intersects that pole is considered a linear life on that side of the ladder. Where the rungs intersect the other pole is considered a linear life on that time track. Now the rungs do not have to connect to both sides. And in this case you may simply assume that what I am saying is my pole and his pole have one common rung. All of the rest of my rungs do not connect into his pole. The rest of his rungs do not connect into mine.

**Man 2:** Would you consider Daryl to be a clear channel? In other words, does what you say come through him without any coloration?

**Bashar:** Not without, but it will be clear in the sense of valid for whomever we interact with. In other words, the idea of clear will be to me that whoever is attracted, whoever I attract will be there for the reason of receiving whatever information comes through. In other words, the idea of the trust is total. Yes.

**Man 2:** There was the woman that I saw before, her name is Cheryl or her name was Cheryl Stures and she's become her name is now Karta and I was at her birthday party recently and she couldn't seem to stay in her body and how it was explained that she started channeling she would leave her body and she would start channeling instantaneously and what came out apparently was that she was going through some period of purge and that at the end of 40 days she would then become a clear channel.

**Bashar:** If that is her method, that is her method.

**Man 2:** Well, suppose her ex-husband was in fear that this would take such a toll on her body that he might not be able to survive.

**Bashar:** Then that fear being in her reality is also a part of her process.

**Man 2:** Oh, I think it would be more his fear than her fear. Is she aware of it? Aware of his. I don't know.

**Bashar:** If she is not aware of it, it is not part of her process. If she is, it is. It is as simple as that. Let your physical reality be an obvious reflection of what you believe it should be.

**Man 5:** Another question is concerning myself and the artworks that I channel. I know that I have a personal guide by the name of Joseph and Florence. This was told to me and when I channel artwork I was wondering if it comes directly from them or through them or if they're just there and it's coming from another dimension in which it was explained to me that...

**Bashar:** What does the experience feel like? Does it feel like what you wish to be in the moment you are doing it?

**Man 5:** Oh yeah, definitely.

**Bashar:** Then why are you choosing to create separation and labeling in terms of where does it come from? It all comes from you no matter who else is involved. You follow me?

**Man 5:** I was just thinking that it comes through me.

**Bashar:** And that is then your creation of the idea of your interaction with other consciousness. It is still your creation ultimately.

**Man 5:** Well, so what or how much do these two particular guides of mine have?

**Bashar:** As much as you create them to have. Do you not get the picture?

**Man 5:** I get the picture.

**Bashar:** Recognize your imagination is real. So in any given moment, however you choose to imagine your relationship to yourself and so-called other consciousness to be in that moment, that is what is real. When you change it, that is real. When you change it again, that is real. Everything is real. You are the creator. Do you understand what that means?

**Man 5:** Yes. I take full responsibility. Thank you.

**Man 6:** I met a woman who told me about another person who was an iridologist and she said that their theory is that there are only really two colors of eyes, blue and brown when humans are born and that they may change after a while. And I was wondering if that's true and valid.

**Bashar:** Everything is true and valid. For the individuals that choose to believe that an idea is true and valid. Now understand something. I have been speaking with your civilization for approximately what you call two and one half of your years and I have been speaking in ways that have been reflection of the idea of your third density pattern. This is no longer the case. If you are going to create the idea of interaction with me now, be with me now, be with yourself now. So it's just if I choose to believe this theory, if I choose not to believe this theory, it is up to you. You are the gods. All that is did not create the universe. All that is created you. You created the universe. If you wish to say all that is created the universe then all that is created the universe through you. Everything, everything in the universe is your creation and yours and yours and yours and yours collectively and individually because you are each your own universe. Whatever you believe is true and valid and accurate for you, for you and you alone is what will be your law of physics. That is what you will experience. It does not matter that no one else might experience what you experience. Your universe and your experience in it is still really real because what you have been living in is the product of your imagination anyway. What you have for so long considered to be the only real reality is like any idea only what you choose to believe it has been.

**Man 6:** You can look at this from another place. That I attracted or I created this woman to come and tell me.

**Bashar:** Very good. Giving you an opportunity to recognize beliefs that exist within you and then choose which ones you prefer to be in your universe.

**Man 6:** If I chose to believe that was true and that there is some kind of stuff that shouldn't be in your body that would change the color of your eyes. I was wondering what stuff was in my body and what I should do to get rid of it.

**Bashar:** What does your imagination tell you? Now, what does having the idea of having stuff in your body that you should get rid of do for you? What does that idea do for you?

**Man 6:** It makes me clean up my act.

**Bashar:** Does that mean you are judging yourself to be less?

**Man 6:** Well, no. I've just been trying to eliminate certain things from my diet for a long time.

**Bashar:** Talk to your body consciousness. You can recognize anything that is there that you do not prefer to be there. You will simply allow yourself to ingest what you feel reflects what you believe yourself to be. Talk to your body consciousness and listen to it when it talks to you. Now you can also understand that simply because someone tells you you have this and such and should do this and that it is only a reflection of your own belief because you have attracted someone to tell you that. Therefore you can simply do what they suggest and follow your belief in that way or you can change the belief. You follow me?

**Man 6:** How?

**Bashar:** One moment. Now the idea that was being discussed, our perception of it, is simply that it deals with what you call the endocrine system in your body. Take that as your clue and do your own discovery. But you do not have to.

---

**Man 7:** You've been talking about the fourth density, but in the past you said that your civilization exists in the third density as ours.

**Bashar:** Third, fourth, fifth. We have representational forms that you call bodies that exist in third density. And we have been using that idea of ourselves to interact with you with what you call our spacecraft. So that you would have a physiological representation. But you could exist not in things on the third density. Our transformation is your transformation.

**Man 7:** But you've actually your civilization has made the transformation whereas we have not.

**Bashar:** But in this way the overall idea of the transformation you are experiencing is still a transformation for us since we are portions of the same consciousness. Therefore, while it may not specifically be the same type of transformation, a transformation it is nonetheless and simply allows us more opportunity to be more aware of our existence on all density levels simultaneously and allows us to shift our focus little bit closer to fifth.

**Man 7:** On that point, I'm creating a recollection of your having said that you existed in third and fourth density and then several months ago you started talking about fifth density and it sounded to me like that was a transformation for you guys.

**Bashar:** In a sense you may say it was also a reflection of changes in your own transformation that allowed us to share the idea with you. Recognize that what we have been sharing with you has had a very specific focus and in this way were we to have started with certain things they would not have been understood.

**Man 7:** So was it less that you actually had undergone a transformation in that same...

**Bashar:** It is both. Because the transformation was that we were now co-creating a reality in which that...

**Man 7:** So what you were saying just now just to get it clear is that as a result of our transformation no it's a co-creation our transformation here transformation is a co-creation.

**Bashar:** Okay thank you.

**Man 7:** So to continue on the same earlier like we are not the result of our past right does that mean also that we will be using our imagination a different way?

**Bashar:** You will be living in it. You will be experiencing your imagination as really as you have been experiencing physical reality.

**Man 7:** But it's like it's like a baby. Yes.

**Bashar:** You will, as we have said many times, be living your dreams. Did you think we were being figurative when we said you will be living your dreams? We were being quite literal.

**Man 7:** I'm not talking about my night dream. I'm talking about daydream.

**Bashar:** What is the difference? Night dream, daydream.

**Man 7:** Well, the difference is for me that when I dream, my body is asleep.

**Bashar:** But that is your definition. There are in your terms individuals who have some pretty strong daydreams.

*(Someone speaks to the entity)*

**Man 7:** What were you talking to me?

**Bashar:** You follow me. Why are you doing that? Because that is how many individuals find themselves deeply within even a daydream. So they do not hear when other individuals are calling. They might as well be physically asleep. It is the same thing. You are simply in the meditative state. All we are saying is that now the barriers, the definitions that allow you to create the idea that a night dream, daydream and awake physical state are different are now dissolving. It is all going to be one experience. We do not in your terms really ever sleep.

**Man 7:** That's right. Yes. Okay. I follow that.

**Bashar:** Because we are living in the dream and therefore never need to wake up into physical reality. We are awake. That's right. That is what is meant by living your dream. Truly experiencing your life as if it were the type of reality you think is only relegated to your night dreams. The impossible made possible.

**Man 7:** But it's not tangible.

**Bashar:** It will be.

**Man 7:** I see what you mean because sometimes I have dreams.

**Bashar:** That is simply because you are still making a distinction between the dream reality and the physical reality in the way that says physical reality is more real.

**Man 7:** No, I'm not saying that it's more real as if it is more.

**Bashar:** That is what I am saying. Pay attention for a moment. As long as you still wake up and remember having had a dream that does not seem to apply directly to what you experience as a tangibly physical reality, you are still making a difference.

**Man 7:** Instead of having living that dream, I think that I recall the dream live actually a different perspective. Yes. Got you.

**Man 7:** Who do you... as you're talking I am doing some call it thinking right or visualizing or experiencing what you're saying. Now this experience is my understanding what you say different from what is going to be sometime in our context of the future.

**Bashar:** There's a you will be inside your thoughts. Your thoughts will be the reality. You will be the thought. You will be the reality. You will experience it as you think it.

**Man 7:** Now, as I'm talking to you and hearing what you're saying now, I moved a notch from the original to this other place. And now and now and now. We keep on moving. And what we had originally co-created as two and a half years of your time. How much longer of this co-creation is going to take before I'm all the way there?

**Bashar:** You will never be all the way anywhere. Understand you are an ongoing eternal infinite process of idea within your moment of now. In this way, however, let us say that the potential in your time frame linear terminology can be anywhere between now and the next 30 to 50 of your years. Anywhere in there depends upon the individual. It is up to you.

**Man 7:** Just to verify that as we are talking now you just use some linear concepts which I am co-creating with you as you're talking correct and does it follow that if you talk a little bit more a little bit this way and that way that we would arrive at that situation of fourth dimension in the shorter can be so I'm listening with all ears.

**Bashar:** Then do not be surprised at what you may see at any given moment. What might pop in, pop out?

**Man 7:** What is the relationship? No, first of all, you said that nobody's going to go faster than anybody else.

**Bashar:** Not in the overall.

**Man 7:** What is the relation?

**Bashar:** There is a bubble of leeway that you will stay within in general terms, even though individuals in your own terminology some may be more accelerated than others, but you will stay within the bubble of acceptability that will allow you all together as a bubble to move into fourth density at once. You will not get ahead of anyone else in that way, though you may in a sense in your terms be ahead of someone else on a personal level.

**Man 7:** So I can function in fourth density all I want. Yes. But still interact with everybody else. Yes. And then when the time comes when the actual transformation occurs that is going to be happening for everybody for everyone who chooses it.

**Bashar:** Who chooses it.

**Man 7:** What is the proportion?

**Bashar:** No.

**Man 2:** In regards to the subject of living your dream, you referred to the idea of somebody having a daydream and not being aware of the physical reality something or other somebody calling them. On the other hand, somebody who is always aware of the physical reality that doesn't mean that they're not living their dreams. It means it could be their dream is their physical reality.

**Bashar:** Your dream is your physical reality. Very good. Simply what we are saying is that once you are in the constant state of the moment of now all of it will become your experiential reality. All of it. You will still have just to be colloquial about it the daydream and you will be able to hear someone calling you simultaneously. And it will all be one thing.

**Man 2:** One moment. Why did you say no? No.

**Bashar:** Simply because first of all to ask that type of information is to cause separation and also because it is quite meaningless. Everyone that chooses to be fourth density well 100% of those people will be in fourth density. 100% of all the people that choose to be in third density will be in third density and so forth. There is no way to give you anything that is in your terms meaningful in terms of what percentage will be in fourth and what percentage will be in third. It is a constantly shifting idea. Choices at the moment they are made completely eradicate the percentages. You follow me?

**Man 2:** So all right. So let me do it this way then if this is what you wish. Right now 70%, right now 63. Right now 55. Right now 82. Right now 94. What difference does it make? It is always changing.

**Bashar:** Okay, I got it. But that means also that we as individuals can talk to people and plant seeds or say things that make them change their mind.

**Bashar:** Not make them change their mind. That will allow them to change their mind. If they desire. You can always share what you are. Of course, you can share this idea with anyone you come in contact with because you would not come in contact with them if you could not.

**Man 2:** Okay. You follow me? Yes. Thank you.

---

**Woman:** My neck is hurting right now and it wasn't hurting when you first started talking.

**Bashar:** The back of your neck? Between your shoulder blades upper? Yes. All right. Relax. You're opening certain energy vortices. Relax. Be in the moment. Love it. Live it. Use your imagination. Talk to it. Let it talk to you.

**Woman:** So it's not any type of resistance?

**Bashar:** Only in the overall generalized sense of let us say what you might call the remnants of pieces of habits. Nothing stronger than that.

**Woman:** Thank you.

---

**Man 8:** Since you're talking about living in the moment, living in a dream, I would like to take this opportunity to share with everyone that I have a dream of mine which was inspired me by hearing a lot of the things that shared with us. And one of the ideas that he shared with us is about peace. And I thought of a fun way of taking his peace phrase and what would be the most fun way of boldly stating who you were sharing the ideas of peace today in a very loving and subtle way and being able to communicate those ideas. And I thought of t-shirts. And so the phrase is you don't get peace by hitting war, you get peace by loving peace. And it's a white t-shirt because that's the color of peace and blue is the color of communication. So if anyone is interested in sharing this idea with me, thank you very much.

**Man 7:** What I there was a time when I be able to create my dreams. I used to go to bed at my time and throw something there and I would say I want to have a romantic dream or I want to have a powerful dream about a story that I was making. And I would have that dream that means that my body would I would fall because I would go to this have unconscious which is to sleep. And I would have that dream. You know, but now I realized that I was living whatever I was doing at that time and then but somehow I just decided at one time I don't know when to stop doing that.

**Bashar:** Being the effect of whatever picture was coming on. When you begin to live your dreams, you do not have to have dreams as only recollections in a physical reality. You can stop that and actually live the idea. Does that answer your question?

**Man 7:** Well, I don't know if there was a question. I think it was more like a statement.

**Bashar:** Very good. Thank you.

---

**Man 9:** Are the presence of many spacecraft still planned for what we call the future?

**Bashar:** The presence of many spacecraft all around your world right now. You follow me?

**Man 9:** That wasn't really my question.

**Bashar:** The idea of creating and cocreating what you would call physiological interaction with other beings and those spacecraft is very much in the cocreational dream that your civilization and all of our civilization are becoming. Yes.

**Man 9:** At one point in the last several months, you said that it would occur sometime in the next seven of our Earth years.

**Bashar:** That's still popular. Yes.

**Man 9:** I have another question because you have spoken of male and female energies, right? And it's a question which many people have written books about here on Earth. And wondered whether those kinds of distinctions were merely physiologically based.

**Bashar:** In a sense, yes, there is polarity, positive, negative, and the idea of those attributes experienced in physical reality create what you call maleness and femaleness. In the soul, there is not so much the idea of maleness, femaleness, but the polarity of the positive negative energy.

**Man 9:** I follow you. But you have used what interests me is that you have used the term and you're I gather when you use the term you're coming from a place that is separate from physicality and nevertheless you have made the my civilization has a physicality. We have male and female. But is the fact okay that in the reality that we're all sharing here, the fact that there is male physicality and female physicality is the result of a distinction having been made, if you will, before the manifestation of physicality. But in the soul, in the non-physical self, that polarity is not really looked at as so to speak maleness and femaleness. It is looked at as positive and negative polarity in physical terms. And because you are physical and because we are physical, that is why we have been utilizing that term. Even a disembodied soul has used that term many times because that is the idea you understand being expressed in your society. So we will use maleness and femaleness to express the ideas that are embodied in the positive negative polarity energy that does exist within every soul.

**Man 9:** Could you speak of the maleness and the femaleness or the positive and the negative somewhere in between those two contexts?

**Bashar:** Simply the idea and it is known to your society by its symbolic attributes. Simply what you call the idea of maleness is in a sense what you recognize as assertiveness. Femaleness as nurturing acceptance. Maleness as commandment in that way aggressiveness but not negative aggressiveness. And the femaleness the idea of receptivity.

**Man 9:** Are these distinctions applicable in other parts of the physical universe?

**Bashar:** Simply that you have the interaction between and the blending of the idea of outwardness and inwardness simultaneously. The expression outwardly and the knowingness inwardly. That is that same expression and any variation of that theme will be using one side or another or a blending of the sides of the different polarities to different extents. But that's why a soul will experience many lifetimes either male or female.

**Man 9:** Is there a civilization in which the beings present have chosen to call those two separate manifestations differently. For example, a civilization in which there are many variations. The female physical form is agreed upon to be assertive etc. All of those characteristics that we in this civilization call male.

**Bashar:** Now you can have assertiveness within a physical female in your own civilization.

**Man 9:** I understand that.

**Bashar:** But that is simply then the recognition of what is called the maleness energy. Right. I understand that within the female.

**Man 9:** There are civilizations that yes have created themselves to reverse the labeling. But that is only labeling the idea that assertiveness is in your terms female and receptivity male. Yes, there are civilizations like that. But in this way again, it is only labeling as per the experience they are living out, right? And does not fundamentally make a difference in the idea that the two energies exist. And it does not matter to the soul how those energies are expressed in that way because to the soul it is not really the idea of maleness and femaleness. It is simply the idea of polarity. In another level, perhaps not even that. Just the idea in and of itself of polarity, right? Energy. Yes, I understand.

---

**Man 9:** I have another question because of something you said earlier. Do you make a distinction between the mind and the brain? You use the term brain.

**Bashar:** Your brain is the physical object, the physical symbol that allows your consciousness, non-physical consciousness to become physical mentality or mind. The idea is that you generate with your non-physical consciousness electrical energy fields. That concept acting through the symbol of the physical brain generates a reflection, a symbolic reflection of your consciousness in physical terms. And you call it mind or mentality.

**Man 9:** You follow me? No, I didn't.

**Bashar:** Look at your entire world at varying degrees of solidity in one electromotive magnetic fluid. The expression of non-physical consciousness in a physical medium is perceived by you in the physical medium as mind or mentality because it makes use of the electromagnetic fluid that has been created to generate the electromotive apparatus of the brain that can represent the idea of the consciousness's interaction into physical materiality. That reflection when perceived only through the physical senses of the artificial personality construct is considered to be the mind mentality and it is the product of the action of consciousness upon the electromagnetic force. That is why you can have what you call ESP because you are all in the same magnetic fluid and your mentality can synchronize with another mentality because it is simply a matter of oscillating the vibrational electromagnetic field at an identical pattern rate.

**Man 9:** Does that in my thinking up to this point it has seemed to I understand that it has seemed to me that the brain the physical gray matter inside the skull was merely it didn't have too much to do with that. In other words, you could get you could accomplish the same things without that. You are consciousness without matter. Yes. Okay. But matter gives rise to mind. Mind is not consciousness. So what is mind there?

**Bashar:** Mind is the physiological representation of consciousness.

**Man 9:** I thought brain was a physiological representation.

**Bashar:** It is the physical apparatus. The mind all right let us say it is the physiological field that represents consciousness. The brain is the physiological apparatus that represents consciousness. But the mind is the physiological activation field, the electromotivation field that allows there to be activity of consciousness in matter.

**Man 9:** I got activity. So a mind as you're using it is part of this electromagnetic fluid. Yes. Got it. It is a specific arrangement, a pattern of vibration as determined by the consciousness. Got it. And it is what allows there to be interaction on physical levels. Thank you.

---

**Woman 2:** I'd like to go back to the fourth density discussion that we had earlier. Seems to me that I've been having more and more occurrences of my life being like a dream. Yes. And I was wondering if that was relating to what you were talking about.

**Bashar:** You were talking about You know, he is. Of course. Simple. Is it not? Almost too simple.

**Woman 2:** Sometimes you say so.

**Bashar:** Yes, we can create it to be too complex. Yes, you can. And you have many times.

**Woman 2:** Thank you. For it has been a loving creation and it has gotten you where you are. That is why you do not need to judge what you have been. For it has gotten you where you are. Beautiful. And if you love yourself in the now, then you will love all that you have ever been. For now, in that way is the idea of yourself. Now you have made a connection that where you have been has gotten you where you are in that way. And I am using that terminology only linearly. Now you have the opportunity to understand that everything that you are now is what gets you where you are. For now the past is also now. Thank you. You may all take a short break.

---

*(Break)*

---

**Man 10:** As we progress through our transformation and we experience lightening of our bodies as you would refer to. Will we see a difference on our bathroom scales?

**Bashar:** In a sense, you may choose to create that type of a symbol to represent the enlightenment of yourself if you wish. Yes. Gravity will no longer hold you quite as hard.

---

**Man 7:** You said earlier that everything for you in your reality. In their reality. So that came from that may be true for some people. Correct. So whatever is do is to that person. So the result if the person thinks who they really are. And they will in this way then reflect that idea by remaining in the idea you call third density.

**Bashar:** But also simply everything is true. Does it mean that you have to admit or really believe that or have that concept fully that you know the result of your past to be able to?

**Bashar:** If you are creative enough to create the type of reality for yourself that says you can have a reality. That is the idea of believing whatever you want to believe and still be wherever you want to be with it. Then that will allow you to be in that reality. You may simply find however that you will in your terms simplify and eliminate definition bit by bit so that your reality will be the simplest definition it can be. You can have a reality that contains what seems to be both of those ideas and still be where you want to be. But in this way since you know you are always where you want to be then in this way the definition of your reality can simply be that and not really need to create the symbols that reflect where you are. You simply will be where you are no matter what definition that carries with it.

**Man 7:** Last Sunday I had this movie and thought, you know, that really to really experience life, you know, I was really at that moment experiencing life. And my vision was very very wide like you know, I could have anything I wanted and feel totally whatever it was. And think was just experiencing life and being able the right word. It was I was regarding it as instead of coping experiencing it. Which was that release the charges was keeping me from not acting or doing things because what I have stress that I don't want this.

**Bashar:** Very good then you are living life right. Thank you very much for the sharing of your soul.

---

**Woman 3:** You ask me about as my consciousness and it can bleak. I mean I have noticed in watching your voice is one of them and last Thursday at water then this week I do a lot of public speaking and I found that just it's becoming I think they end up be crying in front of why I don't know.

**Bashar:** Perhaps if they see you expressing that much emotionality, they will believe that you believe what you are saying.

**Woman 3:** Well, I don't feel as if I'm crying though. It's just like all of a sudden now the clear blue is it starts tearing.

**Bashar:** It is natural. However, okay, in terms of who you are and what you are at this moment. Now if you are willing to let the energy flow in other ways it does not have to flow in that way.

**Woman 3:** I have some suggestions like you know detour. What does your imagination tell you? Go ahead. Use it. Use it now. Use it now. What I would really like to do is have one good cleansing. Got rid of it all at once.

**Bashar:** How do you feel? Oh, very warm. Nice. Oh, extremely warm. Nice. Okay, now you know how to do this in the idea of what you call one of your past lives Indian in nature and what you call the sweat lodge. Allow yourself to be the high gear now be in your sweat lodge sweat it out. Let it all sweat out of you into your auric field and assimilate in an energy fashion that will electrify the air that you breathe so that it is always for you balanced, refreshed, freshening and exhilarating, clarifying, purifying. You may find maybe that when you do this, your temperature may then drop a bit, but that will be all right.

**Woman 3:** All right. Thank you very much.

---

**Woman 4:** This has to do with physiological changes too, but very different nature. Someone shared with you last Thursday about the panic attacks she has and the nausea and I know you have explained before and you explained again about the friction that we've received right and I have had a lot of that too I haven't called them panic attacks I've called them preloading anxiety but I think it's the same thing right how about excitement well excitement okay except that excitement is fun and that anxiety well is very very dis.

**Bashar:** Then if you call it excitement and let it be fun, it will be.

**Woman 4:** I have No, it's not. I did it. And I said, so what I said this is close to excitement. And this is what is excitement. This same thing, same energy as excitement, I think. Yes. Okay. So, did you enjoy it?

**Woman 4:** No.

**Bashar:** Then you did not believe it.

**Woman 4:** Actually I'm not really talking about that. What I'm talking about is that hearing her talk who I thought I think of as very enlightened very high spiritually made me sort of feel better and I know this is very third density but I'm not judging it. No, I didn't judge it. I was very aware. I am not judging it. Okay. And I wasn't judging it either. I was very aware of what was going on, but it was still uncomfortable and relating that to something I shared a few weeks ago about how easy I thought it was to become my future self. At that time, even though I said to myself, okay, my future self doesn't feel that anymore. It's all integrated and one. Yes. Yes. Yes. It is am now. Not my future self doesn't feel it. Of course, your future self doesn't feel it. No, no, no. What I say is I visualize, imagine what my future self's like, and I say, "I'm now my future self." Okay, that does not work during those times when there's that much anxiety occurring.

**Bashar:** If you say so, the thing that I'm saying here or that I've thought about is that talking to Julie, she said that she's talked to some other of hers of note who are going through the same thing and I've talked to other people who've gone through the same thing right and it is sort of comforting even though we know that you've said it's fiction and all this it's comforting to know that other people are going through that and it passes.

**Bashar:** While it happens though then that perhaps is one of your methodologies and the idea of forming interaction with them perhaps is one of the purposes for why you are creating it. If you can find in your imagination another way to create that interaction, then the purpose can be served in other ways other than the anxiety.

**Woman 4:** I haven't I couldn't think of any other way.

**Bashar:** You are imaginative. Do you really need anxiety as an excuse to interact with those individuals?

**Woman 4:** No, no, no, no, no. It was after the fact that I thought, well, maybe that's the reason I went through that. But I don't I still don't know now. I haven't had it for a few days and it's very nice. But I still don't really know how to deal with it when it appears.

**Bashar:** Do you have it right now? No. Then you do not have to think about dealing with it because you do not have it now. If you choose to have it now, deal with it then.

**Woman 4:** Yeah, I know what you're saying. It's not quite that simple.

**Bashar:** I think that is your wiring talking.

**Woman 4:** True. I know. I'm very aware of that. It is up to you. Here's your way. You are indestructible. Yes. You are doing exactly what you wish to do. I know that. Walk around and this anxiety starts up and I say to myself why is this happening.

**Bashar:** Then simply ask yourself well all right if I let my anxiety continue do not judge it if I let my anxiety continue and I enjoy having the anxiety or enjoy not enjoying having my anxiety what is it doing for me? Ask yourself what it is doing for you? If there is something in your life you people don't like, ask yourself what it does for you.

**Woman 4:** I did ask myself and what does it do for you? Create a lot of doubt.

**Bashar:** Therefore, very lovingly showing you that you have them. That you have doubt. Allowing you consciously to see how many doubts you might have so that you can then one at a time prefer something else. That is then what it does for you or at least one of the things it does for you. Show you that you have doubts that you do not prefer to have. Now that you are consciously aware you have the doubts, you can change it.

**Woman 4:** Okay. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you. For sure.

---

**Man 11:** It's nice being with you again. I appreciate the rewiring. I appreciate your willingness to pull a few strings. It's really hard to come by an experience like this. It is normal life. So normal. Who wants to be normal? Be natural. That's exactly it. I'm a teacher of mixed group of students. And a question that has come up before when discussing my experiences with you is they're curious and I'm curious to know what the origin of the races are on the earth and what is the significance of the divergence.

**Bashar:** Now understand that you injected yourself into material form in your terms long long long ago. And in the creation of that idea of projecting yourself, injecting yourself into material form, there was and is the idea to some degree as you understand it of what you call physiological evolution. And in that experience there is again to some degree as you understand it the idea of environmental conditions that make physiological changes in your species. Thus in this way what you call the different races will reflect not only environments but attitudes which create the environments which create the reflection of that idea of those beings have of themselves. Now the idea of what you call five is exemplified throughout your human vibration and it is in this way why you are connected to many other races on other planets as well. This expression is simply one of the vibrations that is a numerological reflection of the way energy patterns itself in physical reality in your particular understanding. So you have the idea of the experience of the expression of fives everywhere you are in this way experiencing yourself in that type of connection.

You are allowing yourself the opportunity also to recognize that the so-called races that exist upon your planet at this time are reflective of the number in a sense of transformations you have had on your planet. In this way you can understand that there have been other races and in a sense still are other races. Some of these to some extent may emerge again so to speak in fourth density for you will begin to recognize your number not just as five but also as seven. And in this way there can be the idea of seven rays of yourself upon the planet at once in fourth density. And then you will have the complete spectrum. What you are looking at in this way is 5/7ths of a complete spectrum of transformation.

You have had the idea of a blue tinged race on your planet. And there are to some degree the idea of greenish tinge which you have utilized from time to time to reflect certain ideas that seem to come from off of your planet. For these are all part and parcel of your cosmology, your mentality, your physiology and have represented different understandings of the self during the evolutionary process since the time you injected yourself in physiological matter.

Now you are simply utilizing 5/7ths of the idea in the third density transformation you have created. Near the end of fourth density you will reflect 7/7ths of that idea in various ways and that is what will allow you the transformation to fifth.

**Man 11:** You're mentioning that in a destiny to pass through fourth density as you have chosen it. If we choose as we get used to being fourth density, we'll lose conception of what we call time. Is it a matter of development? Is a matter of living all there is to it?

**Bashar:** Yes. You are not unqualified for fifth density. Now you exist on all densities simultaneously. Simply the idea of your growth or graduation onto any idea you call another level is simply becoming more aware of the more of yourself that already exists there. Learning is the idea of remembering who you are in the now.

---

**Man 12:** You are feeling the energy washing through you in a sense. You are sensing beginning to sense the process of the acceleration itself which is one of the things you can sense with fourth density senses. You can sense energy in different ways. You are simply giving yourself a physiological interpretation of that energy.

**Bashar:** It is also your recognition of what we call the fundamental template upon which your physical reality is formed. The triangle being the least complex, the most simple figure that can support itself in your dimension.

**Man 12:** The idea was personal relationship I was experiencing the equality with peace in order to make a difference.

**Bashar:** Yes, you simply do not have to look at the triangle as having tension in order to hold itself together. It is supporting itself not in tension, not in strain. It is holding itself up in your terminology by its own bootstraps.

**Man 12:** I often want to feel like part of you want to be able to choose. And that choice has never been possible. Now why do you think that is something to achieve?

**Bashar:** I wasn't experiencing it. All right. So what? Maybe you don't need to and some personality aspect wants that. Ask yourself why. If you find that the reasons for why you want that is the product of running away from yourself, then you'll have your answer. If you understand that the reason for why you sense that is the product of integrating in yourself, then you will experience it. Plain and simple. But at any given moment, allow whatever you are experiencing to be what you chose and allow yourself to see how what you are experiencing is what you chose.

**Man 12:** What is obviously going on in your reality? What is happening in your physical life? What is the situation? Attracted to somebody who is in a couple knowing that there are two couples. Not knowing how to be full with that.

**Bashar:** Can you imagine how you may allow yourself to interact with it fully in the idea you call fourth density? Can you imagine doing that?

**Man 12:** I have felt it fitting.

**Bashar:** Can you imagine yourself doing it? Have you done it?

**Man 12:** Not with my body.

**Bashar:** Until you live what you are giving yourself to experience, you will not know. It doesn't give the bridge to it. Why not? You have to create it. If that is what is attracting you, be that idea. Live like you already are that type of interaction. And the bridge is there.

**Man 12:** That is what I said.

**Bashar:** Ask yourself why. What do you fear will happen? What is if that situation came true for you? What is the worst thing that could happen? Go ahead. Be really creative with this idea.

**Man 12:** The fourth density.

**Bashar:** If this relationship do not talk in third, fourth densities, talk relationship. If the situation you are describing that you say you are attracted to and repelled by came to pass, what would be the worst that could happen? How how do you do that? How will you shrink and disappear? And from where to where?

**Man 12:** Kind of like going inside out.

**Bashar:** What's wrong with that? Who says being inside out is a negative experience?

**Man 12:** What does that mean? Size is relative. What does shrinking mean?

**Bashar:** Not allowing enough space. Space. You are creating space. You can create as much as you require or as little as you require. But understand this. All of creation takes place in no space at all. Space is an idea. Time is an idea. All of creation is taking place at no time in no space. Can you shrink farther down than that? Therefore, since you can't, you will always be in creation and always have enough space to do anything you wish. If space is what you want to do something in, you follow me. Therefore, shrink all you wish. You will not shrink into nonexistence. That is not possible.

**Man 12:** Could be.

**Bashar:** You tell me. If it's difficult for you to recognize that that may or may not be the so-called bottom line fear, then perhaps it is not so fearful after all. Since you can't really tell, believe me, if you were afraid, you'd know it. Since you are wondering about whether or not to be afraid, what are the words? You are the feeling. Be whatever feeling you wish to simply live all you give yourself. The worst that can happen is that you will still have more life to live. And the best that can happen is that you will have more life to live. So live, live, live, live, live.

**Man 12:** Thank you. How was that?

**Bashar:** More time, more space, more intensity.

**Man 12:** All right.

**Bashar:** Live life here now. That's how. That's great. How's that? Nice. A little more. Not too much. Is that enough? Yes, it's beautiful. Thank you. So are you. Say, life is beautiful. Life is beautiful. That is a meditation. Thank you.

---

**Man 13:** I just realized something. I've been having some very minor general pains in my teeth and I was for a while kind of considering it that it was judging it as something wrong. A very very light fashion. That maybe I need to do something with them. I just realized they're undergoing changes.

**Bashar:** Physiological changes that are actually positive. Some of what you may experience as the minor aches and pains are actually the result of physiological changes. Now, many of these changes will be coming from chemical interactions in your glandular systems because it is your glandular systems that is more directly linked to the energy system that you are. Thus, there may be little throbbings here and there, little nerve impulses because of the increase of chemical ideas that allow there to be more rapid flow of electrical stimulation here and there. But you are simply all evening out billions and billions of times a second. You follow me?

**Man 13:** Yes. Thank you. For sure.

---

**Man 14:** What would be the absolute scenario that your civilization could see for our planet.

**Bashar:** Maybe best your own. Well, there is no better best. The best is your own. Can I put it to you this way? What would please you most for instance that to share with you as we are sharing in any way that you wish to share?

**Man 14:** Is there a worst then?

**Bashar:** A worst. Yes. No, it's all one. All the same to us.

**Man 14:** Why did we do ourselves up again like we did.

**Bashar:** Does your planet, but for sure several Wednesdays ago, you did say something which I think may relate to the question the man had. Do form the connective bridge. What you said then was that in fact the ideal scene would be that we would get to a point in our development where these sessions would be completely unnecessary.

**Bashar:** You're correct. However, we love you whether you choose that or not. We simply sense that that is the way you have chosen to go. Therefore, we enjoy that are all fragments of the all that is proceeding in that general direction.

**Man 14:** Does earth represent a farthest point from that awareness?

**Bashar:** Oh no, there are worse off places. Since you wish to use the term worse, I will go along with you for a moment simply because that is your terminology. Worse separation. There are places which make your earth look like paradise in terms of the just separation. Of their awareness. There are civilizations that are experiencing a greater degree of separation than you are.

**Man 14:** Would you describe the conditions on those?

**Bashar:** You can imagine that. You can imagine for sure. Let it say this way. You have a phrase hell on earth.

**Man 14:** Have we ever experienced any of those?

**Bashar:** Of course, you have experienced it all.

**Man 14:** So if we have experienced them, we will not have to experience them in the future.

**Bashar:** Is up to you. You always have the choice. Always. If you are in the mood, we'll experience it again. Correct. If you are in the mood now understand this however the you you are now never will experience that. That is the point you are always another you. If you decide to experience this again, it will not be you that experiences it. It will be another you from the you that you are.

---

**Man 2:** In the raw material which is the transcription of channelings which occur, the entity Ra says that there's a larger cry for help coming from beings here on earth than any place else which is why in their awareness why so much attention.

**Bashar:** Now we have been through this a bit. Simply the idea is that your idea of yourself at this time is one of intense focus and simply the terminology cry for help was put out in ways that individuals that needed to understand it would understand it. It is simply that you are making yourselves very well known. Your intention radiates with immense intensity and the intention is to move forward. Yes. And so because we're in effect saying, "Hey, we're ready to be taught. Please then the reflection of that idea in any way, shape, or form that it can be is here to assist you, including us and them." Whereas these other civilizations that in some way experience a much greater separation from the all that is are not maybe choosing to simply not know that there is any other way and so there is no intensity in that sense. They are in the middle of an experience and are not aware that there is another way to look at it. You have become aware there is another way to look at it. And it is that ability that gives you the choice.

**Man 9:** At what point would we be ready to do a job like what you're doing now?

**Bashar:** Understand you do do this in your dream states. To have but to be willing to live your dreams can do it now.

**Man 9:** Are there many humans actively involved in communication with other civilizations?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Man 9:** Like we're going out. We're not like just we are here receiving at this point in a way.

**Bashar:** But of course understand that in the technical description while you are doing that because you are in your dream state you are not technically human while you are doing it.

**Man 9:** Technically more of a pure soul.

**Bashar:** Yes.

---

**Man 10:** At the break I was talking to Daryl and I was asking him if you had a connection.

**Bashar:** Is the association can be depends on how you wish to define differentiations in consciousness. Now there is the creation of an idea that there is so to speak a council for your own system and in a sense it can be said that anyone wishing to interact with your system goes through that council to do so. And so there are in that way the creations of the idea of hierarchies. But in the functioning of an association experientially there is only one and it is simply oneness. You in your physical reality create the need to look at oneness as hierarchies. To those in the so-called hierarchy, it is simply oneness.

**Man 10:** So getting back to the question is really you said that are basically one and the same thing can be does not have to be. If there is a difference you are making the distinction.

**Bashar:** Okay. Well, so is the actual definition of oneness? Okay. Thank you.

---

**Man 10:** Can you show me or simply that they existed pre and during the beginnings of what you call Atlantis. They were a race of emotional beings and that is where the blue tinged race was. They did not possess the idea so much or express the idea so much of analytical thought. They were instinctive and functioned in that way.

**Man 10:** Were they healers?

**Bashar:** Oh yes.

---

**Man 7:** We are not the result of our past. The present is not the result of the past. The present is not the result of the past. The present is not the result of the past. So you said that like there was like the idea was like planting the seed and then from there we would have an awareness. Take off. Go from the third. Yes. Now, I'm totally willing to have that. How do I get this? I can have the confidence. I know that I know the result that I have.

**Bashar:** As I said, when you are totally willing to have it, you will be it. Do not berate yourself for feeling like you are not it yet. For you are it, but in the way you need to be it for now. You will have your experiences. Simply assume that you are it, that you understand it in any way you need to. The idea of saying well I am totally willing to be it and then asking how is a contradiction right simply keep living keep living now that's how.

**Man 7:** Good that's what I want.

**Bashar:** You just all right.

---

**Man 7:** What I was going to ask was in my dream state as far as physicality my being my future self in a sense.

**Bashar:** In a sense yes. I say in a sense because you are still putting a label on it. You are actually in that way more than Maya. The dream self, the higher self, the oversoul also contains the idea Maya. You can use it as a symbol to allow yourself to go where you know you are going, but it is only a symbol even though it may be its own consciousness. There are identifications going on that are real that are linked in your imagination universe that are real but in your terminology it is not the same person.

---

**Man 15:** What happened to people of Atlantis?

**Bashar:** Some of them in this way transfer into other density dimensionality. As they were done with that scenario, the continent itself was by what you call natural cataclysm destroyed.

**Man 15:** Where was it located?

**Bashar:** In what you call your Pacific Ocean, in the area also now that your Hawaiian islands occupy and also the area further south. And in earlier times there was connection to what you call Asia before that broke away and connection to the northern parts of your North America to some degree. Very very very long ago.

**Man 15:** How many of our years?

**Bashar:** Hundreds of thousands.

**Man 15:** Is there also a civilization coming and going?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Man 15:** Are there cities in that civilization?

**Bashar:** A couple of civilizations. Yes, they contain records like the records is something that in your term is not physical. There are however remnants of ideas that will be in your terms records of things that will be discovered in your fourth density state because then you will be ready to hear them.

**Man 15:** Close. Different terminology altogether, different experience altogether, but based on a similar understanding and a similar form of expression.

**Bashar:** Yes, we sent a myriad of connections to that vibration. Some of which can be Lumian, some of which can be Atlantean. Some of which can be in your terminology South American, Central American, some of which can be even the energy you call Arcturus. Another star system, another density of reality all together.

---

**Man 15:** Is it hundreds of thousands or could it possibly be more? Specifically Leia.

**Bashar:** Hundreds of thousands then there were other now any longer in your time track at all and so you do not recognize them historically there would be no physical remnants.

**Man 15:** But they were on earth.

**Bashar:** Yes in a sense yet in the third density second third or alternate.

**Man 15:** What's that? Parallel dimensions.

**Man 15:** Have there has there been is there life on Mars?

**Bashar:** Not in your third density.

**Man 15:** Fourth or fifth density?

**Bashar:** Fourth. Yes.

**Man 15:** How about on the moon?

**Bashar:** Now in our perception in an alternate reality altogether there is life on that body but that body is not in any way shape or form as you perceive it in your dimension at all is not barren at all in that alternate dimension but only in that alternate dimension. Not in this one. There are artificial bases. But not what you call natural life. No, there are artificial bases on the moon in our density. Constructed by civilizations, not of your own earth and not of the moon. And inhabited. And they were found by the astronauts and the information was suppressed.

**Man 15:** Are they inhabited now?

**Bashar:** Some a few. Not as many as there used to be.

**Man 15:** Are you referring to Oata?

**Bashar:** No. Although some of that I perceive does cross link here and there. But I am simply making a general reference. Physically right now there are aliens on the moon physically right now yes and this information suppressed as a result of an inability of the astronauts to comprehend what they were observing.

**Man 15:** Oh no no no they knew what they were observing and the information was transmitted back to space command center.

**Bashar:** Yes and now authorities on earth have prevented the information from becoming public.

**Man 15:** For what purpose?

**Bashar:** Do you not understand the structure you have created your government to be? The idea that it does not recognize that unless it controls it is not in power. One of the strongest ideas of power in your civilization is what you call information. Now, the idea of allowing your civilization to recognize that your government does not need to rule you, that the universe is open to all to explore, would in their eyes take away their power when in fact it would actually give them their power as individuals. But they do not understand it because that is not what you have all created them to be.

**Man 15:** I understand that. But what I don't understand their thought process thinking that by keeping this information secret it increases their control.

**Bashar:** Because in this way as I just said if you are aware as you are right now that the ability to interact with other beings and to interact with them on equal levels would bring with it the lack of need to have the removal of responsibility from you and institutionalized as a government. Then there is no purpose that they serve. Now they would actually in doing that actually be gaining their own personal power. But they do not understand that they are already as powerful as they need to be to have anything they want. Think because of what you have all co-created the idea of your government to be that only to control is to have power.

**Man 15:** Did the astronauts have some interaction with these other people on the moon?

**Bashar:** Not while in space no while on your moon no simply not beyond what you call photographing and visually seeing.

**Man 15:** There has been face-to-face interaction on your earth with your military and your government with extraterrestrials.

**Bashar:** For sure.

**Man 15:** I heard they even one of our guys was flying one of their spaceships and he flipped the switch to go into the other dimension and blew the spaceship up.

**Bashar:** No, no, no. That is, let us say, an exaggeration. A very large one.

**Man 15:** Why are these extraterrestrials choosing to place this technology in the hands of government and military officials?

**Bashar:** They are not. You just said that there's been some interaction who said they were placing technology in your hands.

**Man 15:** Well, why do they choose to have an interaction with those people as opposed to?

**Bashar:** Because you have allowed them to be the ones that have to be met first. Now the idea is that by allowing that interaction to take place then perhaps there is the ability for them to choose to realize that there is nothing to fear and they can hang up their fear caps. You follow me?

**Man 15:** I do follow you because they are the ones that you have entrusted with the power over you.

**Bashar:** Some yet enough of you have now since not all of you have that is why there is from time to time interaction with some individuals within your society as well that are not of what you call your governmental structure. But again, the frequency with which that happens will completely be dependent upon your willingness to recognize that you are your governments, to take back your responsibility, not by opposing them, but by loving them and letting them function on equal levels with you and letting yourself function on equal levels with them. So that you can share the idea that you all run your world. They do not have to run it for you in the sense of controlling what you know about it. They can run it with you. And if they choose to, let us say perform an organizational service, then they will be serving, not controlling, not dominating, not living your life for you, telling you what is best for you and what is not. That was the essence, the kernel of what the founding fathers attempted to do with the United States.

**Man 15:** The Star Wars program as part of its rationale the interaction with these other civilizations in a sense there is a great deal a great deal of fear about what is perceived to be the loss of that power.

**Bashar:** Now also understand this however what you call your defense program is not all it seems to be and a large portion of that idea is only for the purpose of allowing you to think you need protection so they will stay in power. You follow me? Understand that they understand in no uncertain terms that we and other civilizations are not going to interfere. They know they are establishing in a sense in your terms scrambling for a foothold because they understand inevitably that it will change. They are attempted to establish in ways that only they have understood in the ways they only allow themselves to understand that once your earth opens up to the possibility of interaction with other civilizations, they will still want to be the representatives. They will still want to say, "Look, look at me. I am the most powerful one here. Deal with me." They do not understand all they have been offered by us in our communication with them. They still do not quite understand in the way that we mean it simply that empowerment is the right of all. They do not believe because you have created them not to be able to believe that you can all run your own lives. They will only understand the idea of each and every one of you creating your own reality in terms you call anarchy and chaos. They do not understand synchronicity and ecstatic explosion of coincidence and trust.

**Man 15:** The founding fathers were on to that.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Man 15:** And there is some suggestion that they were we would call it inspired. Yes. Channeled. Yes. Right. Were they?

**Bashar:** Yes. Of themselves. Of their higher consciousness. Of their future selves. They were functioning from integrity integration in the idealized thing. Not all the time. But when they created those ideas. Yes.

**Man 15:** I was just curious. I read stories long ago that President Kennedy was visited by extraterrestrial beings and that his disclosure about these beings led to his eventual assassination. Is there any truth to that?

**Bashar:** Not really. There was interaction mostly in non-physical states. It is more the idea, not so much the disclosure of those events, those understandings, those knowing, but simply his willingness to apply them. You follow me? His ideas were way ahead of his time. Not so much ahead of his time, for that is not possible, but simply let us say no one wanted to play ball.

---

**Bashar:** And every one of you can recognize also the idea that you are the world consciousness which is what you refer to usually as the Christ consciousness which does not have to manifest exactly in that way. What you also call Buddha nature is the same consciousness, the world consciousness, the Christ consciousness. It is also the same energy as what American Indians called Kachina. You have exemplified many different ways of allowing the world consciousness to be embodied as a reflection for you of what you are. That is why your so-called second coming will not be an individual person but the recognition of the world consciousness, the Christ consciousness, the Buddha nature, the Kachina energy in each and every one of you. Then you will create heaven on earth.

