---
heading: Part 3
title: "Simplicity Itself"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1986-07-23
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
tags: ['jesus', 'density', 'cars', 'health']
weight: 67
---



I have a broken foot. My left foot the sesses bone is broken. There's a kind of a belief from the medical practice.  there's also a mass mind belief that a a break like this or injury like this takes them two to six weeks to heal. Usually six weeks being the case.  I'd like to have it healed by Monday.

Allow the idea to serve you. Allow the time it does take to be a reflection of how much time you have chosen for it to take, then it will paradoxically accelerate.

The idea is if you are counting the seconds, you are making the seconds. 

Therefore, allow yourself to simply go on about your business and allow the idea of all the reasons it has been created to serve you. And in this way, by letting it take as much time as it needs, you will reduce the amount of time. Oh, I see. You follow me? Yeah. Is there anything always the expression of that idea when you are working with time works easiest when you let it work as a paradox.

For the idea that you call paradox is one of the side effects of a time track. Thus you are utilizing time by using paradox as a lever to move it. So in this way allowance of the way it does manifest is what will allow it to change into another form of the manifestation. Did that translate? 

That translated well uh in allowing it to to do that. Is there something nutritionally or vitamin wise that would just strengthen my whole body over What has your body consciousness told you already? 

Almonds would help. Absolutely not. All right. What else? Well, it's it said like zinc and magnesium arnica, but and like water too seems to be pretty good. Also, you may in this way find that the soaking of your foot in warm water with bay leaves, eucalyptus leaves, what you call po the article. One more time. Powderle bark and what you call cayenne pepper in the water. 

Usually there's a chance to put it in the water. In this way you will find that the idea will be available for when you are allowing yourself the removal of that device. Okay. Then you will find it will extract symbolically the ideas for the creation through you and out. You follow me? Uhhuh. It will be in your case a reinforcement and an acceleration. 

So there will not be the hanging around of the concern of the reforming of the injury. It will be an acceleration once you are exercising the freedom of motion beyond the idea of what you call your cast. 

For now energy will do. And in this way, some what you call comry tea, what you call sass frra tea. We perceive also that of benefit to you in your symbolic subconsciousness will be a relationship to yourself as the earth server by the focusing upon what you call the emerald crystal. and the adoption of the energy of the emerald crystal into the crystallin structure of your being so that you will not have separatized components that can fracture and break. You following? Yes. Thank you. Thank you for your sharing in this way.


Asker:  Was Jesus Christ the son of man or the son of God?

Bashar: Son of man is what he called himself. What was being shared with you by the manifestation of all that is in that form was that you, each and every one of you, are also a manifestation of all that is. 

If you would simply act like unto him, you would be expressing the idea of Christ consciousness, if you choose to call it that, upon your own planet. recognize that the idea of what you call your second coming is the recognition of the Christ consciousness within each and every one of you. It is not going to be expressed in a single individual. 

Asker: In regards to the Bible, I don't understand is what can I say words that were written down that Christ supposedly said that some are literal some are not much of what was said is not in your Bible.

Bashar: These are interpretations of the era in which many of the ideas were written and compiled, belief systems that existed at the time, perspectives, circumstances, desires, manipulations. 

Asker: Is Bible itself is a belief system? 

Bashar: Yes.

last week you talked about the physiological form of the demons on your system, planetary system. I got a real distinct impression of the faces. Do you have hands and feet? Do you use them like we do? Like five fingers. Five toes.  You walk?

Yes. Although there will be some differences in our experience of that idea. And you wear flowing cut some kind of flowing. 

They are usually form shipping. They can from time to time, should an individual desire the creation of that idea, create a flowing garment if that is an expression of what they are allowing themselves to be. 

But more often fitting and in color.

I was wondering if you carry the energy also of do the physical channels.

The physical channel carries the energy of a gateway. In terms of the physiological channel the translation would not be Doddalia but Damascus. 

So, Da is the gatekeeper for me and the gate. how is he connected to Syria? Is he connected to all energy in a sense? Is he Is he the gate in a sense that you pass through to get to any and all in a sense levels places beings places of being states of existence. 

It is the symbolic interpretation of the idea of passage of transformation of that energy. Of that state of being. It is in and of itself a state of being. it is very very very very ancient on your planet.

it is also representational symbolically of the gate through which you all came to be here.

Um, for myself to get more in touch with Do um, is that the part of me getting in touch with my own multi-dimensionality? 

Yes.

He came to me when I was 13. 

Bashar: Not unusual. Age 11 to 16-17 is high time of psychic awareness and activity. 

He also came along with when I was um the situation was I was respecting with a girlfriend. We were trying to make us um code names. For the boys we had crushes on at the time. 

To use as a mystery code so nobody else would know what we were talking about.

And so first I came up with um we came up with trust. And Maria. Are those all beings from the same time period? 

They are all manifestations of the same consciousness in many different aspects. They are not separated. Except as you need them to be to serve your symbolic purpose. And to touch into them. you're automatically the vibration and automatically the state of that beingness. 

Could you say something about the nature of fear? I am moving to a house on top of a hill with a big space. I am compelled to go out there and sleep out in the mountains. When I walk up there at night, I'm gripped by fear. 

You are in awe of the total amount of power to which you feel connected and that is what you fear. 

You fear you cannot contain it. You fear it is greater than you and it will destroy you. That is not really possible. That is our perception of the fear you are experiencing. Your own self-empowerment, your own connection, your own expression of yourself as all that is. Which can I should I follow? 

Should I let the fear stop me or just go is up to you. What do you mean? Should I let the fear stop me? 

Allow yourself first of all to know that you are choosing to create fear. Acknowledge and accept it. 

Then it will be apparent why you have chosen to create fear. Because then by choosing to acknowledge it, you are allowing it to be equal to any other choice you could make. And you are allowing it to serve the purpose of bringing you the message you have created it to bring you. And then you can act according to however you wish to act. There are no shoulds. 

Can you tell me something about that message that fear brings the purpose of it? It is in one way simply a recognition that you may have belief systems within you that allow you to think that you are not in control. And so when you touch the idea of how much power you actually have, you carry with it the extension and the extrapolation that then that only means you will be that much more out of control. 

That is one of the primary messages. But understand all it is allowing you to recognize is that you have the belief. Many times you experience scenarios like that and emotions in that way simply for the purpose of seeing that you have that belief and then you can go on to something else.

You can choose to serve yourself in that way to let the purpose be served and serve all that is in another manner. Allow the fear in this way to be acknowledged as serving you. And you using your imagination will allow yourself to know why you have created it. It will become transparent to you like the night sky. 

Understand that your relationship to the universe will only leave you, if you are willing to allow it to be so, feeling supported, nurtured, and loved. All that you are ever going to discover is always going to be only more of yourself, and it can always be allowed to feel very familiar.

We perceive love as one special person on earth. 

Oh, really? 

As to that special person. I was wondering Person if perhaps it was a group of people on our on our individual cons consciousness throughout the universe that we might connect with just as uh random we might run into them in our travel but you make the choice in a sense to allow yourself the opportunity to do so and thus in your terms it is not an accidental coincidence. There are no accidental coincidences. There are synchronicity. 

There is the experience of coincident. But it serves you and you are connected to everyone and everything in the universe. Those that you attract will be for the purpose of allowing you to serve them and for them to serve you.

That is always an act and an expression of love. And I was wondering, I've been visited before. All right. By whom? Um, I'm not sure. All right. What did it feel like? 

What was the experience? The experience is warm. It was scary. I think that maybe my fear repelled them.

They will never push you farther than you. Allow yourself to go. Understand that first of all and therefore allow some of the fear to abate by knowing that you are completely in control of determining exactly how fast you will move with any interaction.

Recognize the second you express that fear, it will withdraw. It is not so much that you have to judge yourself and condemn yourself for the idea of having created fear and allow the experience to go away. No, it is an indication that you are in control of the interaction and that when you feel you have reached the limit to which you can accept the interaction, it will withdraw. 

Showing you in no uncertain terms that you are completely in control of just how fast you will proceed. So you are safe. So relax.

Um, a couple of frequently recently when I've been outside at night and since I first came to see you, uh, the sky has seemed completely different. At times I get a disorientation.

That is good. At times I feel as if I it's so tall that if I spread out all Yes, you do. You are that expansive. All right. And Okay. And then I said um a lion which is where there no okay something um um I've always been fascinated by this but there's something wrong that causes even more of a disorientation feel as if I'm there. Yes you are. Understand in this way, there are many such connections upon your planet at its time because of what was experienced there and what is being experienced now upon your planet and the connection that has been made to allow in your terms for the completion of a cycle that started there and ends here. 

It is the opportunity to explore and experience freedom of choice which many of you did not experience there. What happened there? Oh nothing. If whatever has happened is connected with one of the stars in allow yourself if you wish as a symbol and this is all we can share with you at this time to focus on the vibrational resonance of one of the stars that you call Maka Maka. Thank you. Female.

May um the seven levels above the physical astral that are could you explain how these relate to the concept of density, pure density, force density? In a sense they are analogous. They can be experienced as seven levels within those that are pertinent to third density and they can also be understood as the densities themselves. In other words, there is a simolacum surrounding third density experience in which you can experience refinement of physicalness in a sense into the astral and causal bodies in that way and apheric bodies and those kinds of forms that are sort of like a small version of the total version of the seven levels. 

But in this way, the seven levels in and of themselves do have connections to each of the seven bodies. in that way. Is this making sense? Well, it it is, but it's not because there's a physical, but they don't equate one for one. 

The physical is not the third. The astral is not the fourth density. There is a fourth physical and a fourth non-physical which you can consider to be astral. Yes, I must there is in the fourth density. The fourth density is let us take the last density in which you can both experience physicalness and non-physicalness. Okay. The non-physical aspect of fourth density is what you call astral. I the la last Thursday you made the remark that the transformation from third to fourth is focused primarily on our physiological manifestation not on the other density. Oh, it is an alignment of the other densities. But you will be experiencing the first manifestations of that alignment in physiological terms since you can still be physical in fourth density. In other words, force density will be completely refined and put in synchronous harmony with all the other levels before you leave it. 

Does that mean that but the transformation from third to fourth involves an alignment of all seven of those levels?

Bashar: It involves a recognition of an alignment that exists already. Yes. It is the recognition alone that will allow you to make the transformation and experience your physical reality in the terms we have described as force density.

But I still there's still something that I don't get about these levels. Could you go through them and explain? Simply you will find that within the idea of the different densifications you can have let us say in the astral realm in the astral realm let me simplify it this way in the astral realm there are different separations within the total astral realm there are different separations that reflect the different whole density vibrations you know to be fourth fifth sixth and seventh harmonic Yes. Okay. And then how about each of the levels above that? They are different octaves in that way that involve what you call quas plane realities and we are also exploring those ideas ourselves. 



What is quazar? what is quasy? Quas planar reality.

In other words, in this sense, it does not exist in what we consider in this universe that we share in the standard format of a dimensional experience. What does the quasi planar realities? Yes. But back to there are seven levels including the physical or above the physical.

Asker: So there's physical, there's astral, what are the others?

Bashar: There is causal, mental, there is a theory in this order. 

The order to us in this way is nebulous for they are shifting to us in many different ways. So they're not necessarily fixed like the keys on a piano. You don't move from one to the other. You do in a way. We perceive they are becoming more blended.

At this time our perception in your terms is therefore let us say fuzzy. They're becoming more blended for everybody or for us? For you. How are they for you? In a sense, they are blended. That is why we have experience not only in fourth but also in fifth density consciously. 

We have already gone through the different separations in our astral level. Those separations that each have a harmonic sympathetic vibration to the different density levels. So as we move up to say fifth density, all of these different levels that you spoke about will already be blended. become blended and they are merely aspects of a single self. Yes. Whereas from our perspective a third they they are still a ladder to be climbed. 

A couple of years ago, I saw 3 reds of lights in the sky that uh weren't plain, and I feel like they had some significance for me. Obviously, since you co-created the idea and the experience into your reality, what do you feel? Explore. Be bold. Have conviction. Take the first step yourself. 

How do they serve you to recognize them as you have? They were um in a very simple way. They were just that this type of phenomenon does exist. All right. And what did that do for you creating that realization? uh reinforced uh ideas that I had already intuited. All right. Can you simply continue this process? Feels like they there was a particular connection to me that they weren't just in a random. Of course, it cannot be otherwise. 

There are no accidental coincidences. Well, where is I can go?

Where is your imagination? At the time that this happened, I had a very powerful crystal. All right. Very um it had a number of stances in it and uh was extremely good at channeling energy for healing people. All right. Very good. Keep going. Well, it was stolen.

Nothing is ever lost. Keep going. Do not think about it.


Why does any symbol transform? Why does anything change? Why does any symbol you are used to having change out of your life?

Because you do not need it anymore because you can take upon yourself the understanding that you are now your own crystal. You are your own receiver. You are your own sender. You do not need the tool. 

How does it feel to be the crystal yourself? 

Can you not feel the vibration of energy? The resonance that allows you to look out through the facets that you are in that way through the phantom doorways within yourself into other dimensions of experience that allow you to interact with other forms of consciousness. 


Think in triads. Let your imagination have the freedom that will allow you to discover who you are. Make anything of it you wish. If you feel attracted to it, create it into your reality in whatever form your imagination allows you to create the idea and explore.


I've walked on fire and part of that was spoon bending. 

We did a spoon bending exercise when I was bending a metal spoon. Was I a forced entity? 

In a sense, for it was the idea in one form of the expression of the illusion of physical materiality and the supposed rigid structure in which you have habitually thought yourselves to be. 

So in a sentence, sure. 

I've been having an interesting relationship with my car recently. I've had many cars and I usually get along very well with them. They get along well with me and we we kind of exist in synchronous harmony.

But this time, how are you existing in synchronous harmony this time? How are you existing in synchronous harmony this time? What is now the definition of the same synchronous harmony you have always experienced? 

There are no interruptions in your life. What is the definition? Dissonance. And how does that serve you? Well, I haven't quite figured that out. Um, I feel I need a little more reflection. So, all right. Has anyone got a mirror?

Oh, everyone is a mirror. Everything is a mirror.


Do you mean that if you sense there is a difference in the vibration between the idea of yourself as a vehicle and where you are going that perhaps you can change the idea of the vehicle that carries you there and what it is what it reflects to you as the idea of a vehicle yourself as the idea of your own vehicle. Hm. That's very interesting because I've I've been experiencing incredible acceleration lately. Incredible acceleration. Um, but my car won't go. 

Then you may be forming a polarity for yourself based on a belief that you may be able to go too fast. And so you create something to hold you back a little bit as long as you have that fear. Well, I wasn't really aware of having that fear. I love going fast.


The ultimate speed is being there. I find that I'm I'm more and more often there.

I'm experiencing the idea. I am the idea. Then recognize that if you are always there, then your car has gotten you where you wanted to be. You follow me? Well, somewhat. Yes. In other words, you simply find now that rather than the places you expect to be, where you are is where you want to be. Yes, I thought about that today. Oh, what a coincidence. Did you think about trusting it? Well, I have this dichotomy going. Yes, that is what we said. Polarity.

What is this dichotomy? Part of it I guess it's um it's a polarity within myself having to do with third density reality, fourth density reality. On one hand, yes, this one. This one. Probably. All right. Um, I'm feeling much more attuned.

Those are great. And on the other hand, I wanted to get rid of this car because it's not doing what I want it to and I don't feel I can trust it. Now I realize not trust it. Yes. Right. But you are trusting it completely. by letting it show you what you have chosen for it to show you as a symbol. Why do I want to get rid of it then? You don't want to get rid of it. You are simply allowing it to show you that you are transforming and are creating new symbols and that the old symbols don't fit. That's true. The old ways do not get you where you want to be. You follow me? Yes, I do. I I have a feeling there's a lot here that I'm not really realizing. 

But you are realizing everything you need to realize at this moment. Because in every single moment, you are always a perfect manifestation of what you have chosen to be for this moment. Well, it's interesting that in spite of the fact that my car isn't working, I'm still in Long Beach. I'm here right now. Yes. I must be doing something right. Of course, you are recognizing the availability of the freedom that you have. You are not restricted by one description of yourself, one vehicle. Yeah. True. What's your prognosis? The patient will live. Do you have any suggestions about how I could get in better communication with this car? Because I really 

But you are in perfect communication with it. That is the point. You are in exactly perfect communication with it. Okay, I can accept that on some level. But some level, some level. Why create there to be different levels at all? 

You are in perfect communication with it. Period. 

Your consciousness is one consciousness. I am simply suggesting that you can look at it that way. And the second that you do look at it that way, everything will become apparent because you will not be creating different levels for the different ideas to manifest on.

They will only have one level to manifest on and they will all be in front of your face. You follow me? In other words, allow instead of the idea of unconscious knowingness, allow yourself to recognize that the same thing is conscious unknowingness, which is the same thing as not wanting to know. You can many times say, "Oh, well, I don't know because I have unconscious knowingness." But unconscious knowingness is the same thing on the other side of the equation on the other side of the equal sign as conscious unknowingness. You refuse to know that you know and ascribe it to an unconscious knowingness. You know you know unconsciously. You follow me?

Why continue to create the idea as having the level of an unconscious into which you can stuff something that can be hidden from you. You are one level. You are one idea. That will put you in touch and in communication with everything in your reality. 

For then it will also equally always be on the same level you are and you with it. And you can always talk freely with everything on your level. Ah. Ah. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for allowing yourself to meet me eye to eye.

my longtime fascination with the idea of a new form of communication has accelerated and I'm feeling very limited by verbal communication and would like to be able to communicate with pictures and symbols and concepts and like to know if you can give me a clue as to how it would You got Thank you for that creation.

Do you have ears like we have ears? that in your terms smaller.

I just read recently and I just discovered that we humans actually hear by instead of having vibrations come in, we actually put out a vibration from our ear and we really hear through the interference of signals coming in. Yes. Easter. 

That is how you interact with everything. What you experience is the interaction of the idea of yourself with the idea of the thing you are interacting with. It is neither you nor the thing. You are the interaction. Surely um I read also or at least I heard somewhere where another consciousness from a world called Agata is able to read each and every human being by their particular vibration signature vibration. 

Is that is that brain signature vibration or this hearing? It is more an overall understanding of the vibrational pattern you happen to be as a consciousness. Oh, individual consciousness. Yes. 

Is it something we can measure in our technology? You can create the illusion of measuring it. Yes. It will be valid in whatever frame of reference you do the measuring. Just like any measurement is only valid within the frame of reference in which you do the measuring. Can I ask you one more thing? Your uh your idea that you gave us about the rotating copper disc within the electromagnetic field. Okay. If we were to take that copper disc and install it say in the midst of a three-dimensional gimbal to have it rotate, you know, three dimensions, that's would that cause the entire object to move in different directions? Does it create a a spatial potential sync in different places? 

This idea can be adapted to go along with the central drive but only in addition to it not as the central drive just as a direction mechanism. Yes, in addition to it a trinary arrangement around the central drive. Oh, I see. 

Three gimbals around the central drive, right? X, Y, and Z. Hey Thank you. Find you. [Music] Sure. Sure. You I have a question regarding a friend of mine that I was learning um very similar information that you're that I'm hearing from you. And what I'd like to know is the pe the energies that are have been teaching through him um he claims are ETs also and I'm hearing a lot of the same information almost the exact same wording coming from you and I'm curious if indeed the energies are the same in an overall sense yes for in this way the idea of any energy within the association to which we are connected basically speaks the same language and has the same understanding. 

Is that one way to detect um a belief? 

Well, hey, I I I believe that you're teaching from your belief system. Of course. Okay. Let me see. Well, some of some books that I've read and that have been so-called chneled are very opposite or are different. Some parallel but very different. That's why I was curious if you will always find that the manifestation of the information will be for the purpose of allowing different individuals who are oriented in different ways to understand the information along their own terminology. And also you may find simply that the idea is that one perspective will not serve everyone. If you simply find there is something that works for you, use it. If you find there is something that does not, don't. Okay. Also, I'd like to ask you one more question. For the last couple of years, I have during well for no apparent reason I see white lights. You got that, huh? I see like little white sparkling lights. 

Sometimes I see the corners of my eyes. Sometimes I see over like the top of top of my eyes. I guess we'll say what is that? Can you explain that to me? There is some increased electrical activity stimulating the idea of your sensory apparatus. In this way, it is what you would turn to be a little bit of an overload, but not in a negative sense. Mhm. You are allowing yourself to channel more energy through the idea of your nerve system in this way and in the energy field round and value to which you are always intimately connected and you are simply seeing the interaction of the wave fronts as they overlap and reinforce themselves in that way. So if I there there have been times that I have seen blue light. Yes. Is that the same thing or is that an are those to some degree it will simply be a reflection and a understanding of different levels of the energy in that way? 

Not to say that that is not at times an interaction with other forms of consciousness in that sense but for now allow it simply be the interaction of the ideas within your field that you are perceiving consciously. You are perceiving interactions within the field of the energy being you are. Um I don't understand. That is all right. Thank you. Thank you. You as an energy field, okay, create the idea of interactions with other dimensions and expressions of your consciousness. Those interactions, those time space point creations when they overlap are reinforced to create in a sense a realization or a manifestation, a spark in that way to allow the energy that is contained within that interaction to manifest itself along ong where those points of overlap occur at the intersectional overlaps of the energy field that you are.

You are perceiving those reinforced energy points that represent interactions of your consciousness with other forms of the energy. If you were to picture yourself as having a series of network of wires or netting around you and it was normally invisible to you but another net came into your field and where your net touched that net you were able to see a small spark to let you know where the interactions are taking place. That will be a very rough analogy of the idea. Okay. You are seeing the reinforcement of energy fields that you are through the interaction with other ideas that you think you are not. Okay. It have anything to do with the fourth density? This is all new to me. That's why all right. 

It has everything to do with the idea of the transformation into the idea of fourth density. Okay. Understand that you are extending each and every one of you your senses, your definition of what your senses are into areas that allow you to perceive things you previously could not. Including the energy itself that goes into creating what you have always perceived to be your physical reality.

There will be in your terms a few more minutes remaining for this interaction.

Askar: Explain the American involvement in Nicaragua and Central America. It seems to be getting progressively more involved there, particularly in the last 24, 48 hours.

It is expressing the spiritual understanding of ourselves as Americans or being in this country perhaps in a sense the idea of knowing that you do encompass many ideas but as of yet have not the conviction to express your vulnerability in the equal expression of other ideas along with your own.

You are extending the idea of your scope, your effect in the world in which you live.

But you are not willing to understand that the extension of that scope is in the experience equally and the granting of validity to the infinite ways in which consciousness expresses itself in your civilization. 

It is an opportunity for each and every one of you that is willing to recognize that you are your government. You are your government to speak about what you prefer to experience in your reality without accusations, without demands, but simply the sharing of the idea that you prefer equality. You prefer peace. 

You prefer to contain the infinite diversity of your civilization and in so doing create the unity of your civilization in the granting of validity to the infinite diversity out of which it is formed.

Also, it is a recognition of the allowance of the opportunity to know this that if you truly believe, it is also an opportunity for the other individuals with whom you are interacting to know this themselves. 

If you truly believe in the reality you know yourself to be, the choice to feel that you must force that reality on someone else in any way, shape, or form means you don't believe in the reality you say you believe in. 

You actually actually Orion.

Um, I'm filled with an incredible amount of emotion, feeling a with a fabulous amount of emotion or feeling, and I can't I don't even know what to make into a question with it. All right. Very good. Now allow the individuals that are with you tonight to illuminate some of their perspective of the entire idea and the next time we communicate. Then there will be a foundation that you will have worked through yourself that will allow there to be a basis for the communication between us. For now, allow yourself to glean what you need to glean from the individuals around you with whom you share similar connections. Once you have absorbed all the let us say data, then as you are then processing the idea, we will then be willing to interact with you to go through the process with you. 

When you come when you first come into into the room when Daryl leaves um I am not really in a sense in the room although I am in my own version of it. Okay. When you're from your energy comes in here. Um I'm overwhelmed with with the internal vibration that that I feel like being plugged into electrical current. Yes. Um is this my feeling your fourth density energy? It is you feeling your fourth density energy. It is your willingness to understand that it is not us that influences you. 

You are allowing us to reflect to you the understanding that you are influencing yourself. Also the um uh one of the manifestations you said earlier this evening of of the shift to fourth density energy was lack of appetite. 

This is definitely going on with me. and I'm wondering what effect would this have on my unborn child. In this way, recognize that you can communicate with the child with your own body consciousness and come to an acceptable idea of balance for what you do need to intake to support that idea. Trust your intuition. You will not starve yourself. No. Um, is the idea of of great joy, loving feelings for everything and everyone around you, a feeling of ecstasy, is that is that also part of the manifestation or could be symptoms of the manifestation of shift? Yes. For you are recognizing that everything is created from unconditional love. 

Laughter and having a good time are also the symptoms of fourth density reality. The understanding to know that You by nature deserve to be happy without having to do anything to struggle to achieve it. You follow me? Yeah. 

You are the natural state of ecstasy itself. Ecstasy is creation. Creation is ecstasy. You follow me? Yes. I sometimes try find myself trying to curb my ecstatic feelings thinking that they're not appropriate in the places I'm in. All right. Then that curbing in the moment you create that idea serves you. When it is through serving you, you will create something else. Thank you.

Asker: I want to eat all the time. I mean I'm not going into force density or do I just have force density bulimia? You are simply recognizing the idea in a polar form of the idea of thinking that because you feel the acceleration that you feel that you must support that acceleration with the sustenance you are used to rather than another type of sustenance. There is nothing wrong with it. You will in a sense level out. do not have to hope. So hope implies despair. 

I am attracting myself to very spicy foods on a very regular basis. how does that reflect uh my transformation? 

It is something to do with the idea of the feeling that the acceleration brings upon the idea of the increase in temperature. You follow me? Yeah. To some degree in that way. can also recognize the very rapid assimilation of what you call spices into your system and out. it's also very intense and compacted. In an energy sense, compacted energy.

When we thus communicate again of your time, it shall not be the idea that we are at this time within each other. We shall be creating a new, as we always are, a new idea of the interaction that you are with us and we are with you. 

in this way we shall interact within the idea of being the viewpoint of the transformational time frame in the new format in which we will perceive ourselves to be interacting with you in that way and the activities that we shall share shall be the ideas that we become together. We extend in this way our appreciation to you this night of your time. And we will find in this sense that our activities and our interactions, though there is simultaneity in the interaction with you for now, will also in that sense be required for the idea of the creation of the interaction of ourselves with you as the idea of separation for a brief period of time as you create time to exist.

As we continue to interact on all other levels in this way, allow yourself to blend within the understanding of the sharing that each and every one of you are within yourselves to everything that you have ever been and will ever be in the now moment of the eternal you. We extend our unconditional love to each and every one of you and to the idea of the sharing that we are together. And the energy is for you to make use of in whatever way your imagination shall allow you to perceive the degree to which you are willing to love each and every idea that you create to experience within all that is. And the service that you provide to all that is will allow the automatic support of every endeavor that you are willing to be. We thank in this way the idea of the expression of your willingness to allow us to share the gift of your being. 


The experience of yourself with the blending of the unconditional love that you shall create through the idea of the interaction that we shall become in this way through what was all say term the idea by var of the activity months in this way shall be the recognition that you yourselves each and every one of you have the conviction of the sharing of the energy that you exist within.

That you are the very energy you exist within itself. That you are becoming not only the idea of the fourth density transmission but you are becoming the density itself of fourth dimensionality and that shall be the realization of the experience that you are. 

You will become also physiologically not only the idea of having to wait to the idea of the experience of the fifth, sixth and seventh densities in this way to become the density that you are but the expression of the experience of yourself as the extension of your consciousness as the physicality of the fourth density being that you will be. You will experience yourself at first to be within the fourth density experience. By the time you are allowing yourself to manifest through the understanding of the end of the fourth density experience, you will be experiencing yourself as the fourth density itself. 

In physiological terms, you will be expended and expanded experientially as everyone else and yourself. In the fourth density experience, you will smooth the idea of homogeneousness while at the same time maintaining the idea of your own identity.

Within fourth density experience, you will become the idea of everyone within fourth density experience. They will become you. And that will be what you will experience in this way. That will allow you to know that from that time, from the idea you express as the time of several thousand years in this way, when you are at the formation of the time when you are going to fifth density, recognize right now that those fourth density beings have the opportunity and are communicating with each and every one of you so that they as your future selves are luring you to be who and what you are. 

All the ideas, the experience of the guide that you have created for yourself to be in this way and the energy forms in which you exist will allow you to know that you are exploring the idea of yourself in every facet, every way, every methodology that you have created in the idea of separation and now within the idea of integration as you become the fourth density experience. recognize that false density reality as the dimension you are willing to be. 

We will interact in this way in many different ways within the idea of the activity period in this sense and shall be in this sense our energy to you for the understanding of the acceleration that you will be creating in your lives can be at any rate you desire including what you call the rate of instantaneousness.

<!-- Your your friend in mind should pop up. Serious from Syria came through right at the end. -->
