Oversoul Perspective


#### 1. ATTITUDES VS BEINGNESS - APPROACHING FOURTH DENSITY

**Question:** Is it meaningful for us to look at altering our attitudes and behavior or is the absence of being attached to the view of fourth density existence sufficient in itself?

**Bashar:** Now you can understand that the idea can be approached from either direction and will result in the same effect in this way. If you simply can know that you are attached to fourth density reality then your habits your attitudes in this way and your belief systems will automatically change. You can also give yourself the opportunity if that is how you choose to explore the idea of simply allowing yourself to express attitudes that are reflective belief systems that you know to be reflective of the being you think you will be in fourth density. You can work it from either direction and the effect will be the same. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Questioner:** um if that's the case um and approaching it from both directions makes sense. Uh one of the things that that I'm curious about is if we can look at altering our attitudes and behavior and that's an effective approach as well as the beingness as well as experiencing simply the beingness of being there. What is it in the context of say um oh let's take politics uh is there I I don't have a clear understanding let's say from a political point of view of of necessarily the attitudes and or behaviors that are more closely aligned with the fourth density existence.

**Bashar:** Now in terms of what you call your political structure upon your planet, you may find that in fourth density it will not exist at all. That may be why it is difficult to imagine.

**Questioner:** Okay. Um understand again in our civilization we have no political or economic system as you understand it.

**Bashar:** For in this way each and every being is simply being of service to every other being exactly when and where they need to.

#### 2. RELIGIOUS AND SEXUAL REALMS

**Questioner:** Uh how about if I looked at the religious or sexual realm?

**Bashar:** The religious idea will also change. Not so much the sexual realm except in the idea of the attitudes between yourselves in forming the relationships that you form.

**Questioner:** How would you how would you if how would you suggest then that we might more rapidly approach a fourth sense of existence? How is it that we could align our sexual attitudes and behaviors to more rapidly approach fourth density?

**Bashar:** First and foremost, in this way, allow the relationship as they occur in the form in the manner that they occur to be the manner in which you want them to occur. Allow the relationship as they form in the way they form to serve you rather than putting expectation upon the relationship to become what you think it should be following. In that way you will then allow the relationship to serve the purpose for which you attracted it to yourself and then it will transform in whatever way that will be obvious for you to reflect to yourself the idea of your own force density acceleration and momentum. And along with that in relationship the idea can also be created within your attitude that you know that you do not need a relationship in order to be complete. In this way you simply know that you are complete as you need to be and you can attract an equal relationship in which you can share with each other the idea of the completeness you already are. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Those attitudes will be the essential foundational attitudes within what you call relationships in density.

**Questioner:** Yes. Um I guess what I'm looking for is a greater um greater understanding or specificity on specific uh attitudes or behaviors as far as let's say religion respects them.

**Bashar:** All right. But again understand that in fourth density religion will not exist in the manner it exists now at all. And so again it may be difficult to form an idea of what that would be like. Understand that the idea in your vernacular of what you usually term religion is not something on your planet that expresses itself as a person living their belief but a person following what another person says they should believe. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** And so that is fundamentally the difference of the the essence of the difference between religious uh attitudes between third and fourth density. Yes. In fourth density, the idea is to live the life you know reflects the life that reflects the being you are rather than what someone else tells you they think you should be doing. Right. Sure. Then understand that because of that one idea, you will recognize that all the structures that you call religious and political will dissolve. Yeah. You will be taking responsibility for yourselves in that way. Not in what you call a state of anarchy, but in this way, you will simply allow yourself to take back the responsibility for the fear that you have refused to live through, to come to terms with within the being of your physiological consciousness. And in that way, you will not give that fear over to someone else to take care of for you, to take care of you. for you. You follow me? Make up online. Suggestions will always be beneficial. Suggestions will always be beneficial. But in this way, no one no one knows what another should or should not do. Every being in creation is a valid path. If there was only one way to do something, only one path, there would only be one person. You follow me? Therefore, simply recognize that you as you are are the expression, your unique facet of the multi-dimensional crystal of all that is that you chose to be. So be it fully. Liz, be following.

**Questioner:** Thank you. Sure. Sure. Thanks.

#### 3. THE PROCESS OF CHANNELING

**Questioner:** A several questions about the process of channeling. One, how do you know when Daryl is ready to go into a trap?

**Bashar:** In this way, what you call the link between our consciousness is always open.

**Questioner:** So were you in the process of doing some other activity when it suddenly became apparent to you that we were all gathered here this evening and we were in a sense I will find that I will simply have a sense of the timing and I will know that when I prepare myself the timing is correct for nothing else can be possible.

**Bashar:** Okay.

**Questioner:** Once you said that you're using the Daryl's vocabulary and so forth, would it be possible for you to cause Daryl to speak words, say English words that he himself does not know, or are you limited to his vocabulary?

**Bashar:** In this way, it will be usual to limit to the vocabulary. There are times when the energy if it is willing to be trusted to that extent can extend beyond the mentality of the channel. In this case that will be rare. What you call the idea of speaking in tongues will be an example of the level of trust that will allow the mentality to transcend into the super mentality and in this way will have access to anything the mentality can have access to. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** In this case, because of the level of energy, because of the terms of the agreement and the purposes being served, it will simply usually restrict itself to the vocabulary and his own datab bank. Now, concepts can be something that the channel does not know. But again, it will require let us say the assemblage to describe that concept out of the vocabulary that exists within the channel.

**Questioner:** Okay. Could you take a moment briefly and describe how the process of channeling is achieved?

**Bashar:** I do. In this way, you will find that the consciousness of the physiological channel and my consciousness will in a sense accelerate towards each other and blend to form a third identity. This functions to create pulses in a sense of energy that in the physiological channel will activate the motor nerve and draw from it the responses that are reflective of a concept being channeled through the physical form. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Questioner:** So the relationship between Daryl and the third entity created by your consciousness and Daryl's consciousness, is that similar to a relationship between the person's higher self and their own physiological form?

**Bashar:** It does.

**Questioner:** Does it also mean based on your description that there will inevitably be a certain amount of filtering so that you when you channel when Bashar comes through another person another physiological form will how much of a difference would there be?

**Bashar:** There will be differences according to the experiences of the physiological channel to some degree and the degree of willingness, the degree of trust, the degree of understanding.

**Questioner:** I got it. Thank you. Thank you. Now you mentioned speaking in tongues. Isn't that sometimes a collect connection with past lives?

**Bashar:** Again understand it is a connection to what you call the super mentality which encapsulates all physical reality that you have experienced or have yet to experience. You follow me? Thus including the idea you call past and future lives in the physical sense.

**Questioner:** Do you think that it it often has connection to past life or not that often when it happens?

**Bashar:** That can be one through which the understanding is allowed. If that is the easiest route for the mentality of the physiological channel to allow there to be an understanding how such a thing could be possible then it will happen that way. But understand once again that all connections whether they be in the idea of the super mentality, subconsciousness, unconsciousness or consciousness that are made to any ideas that you call future or past are still all being made in the present since everything is simultaneous.

#### 4. MANIFESTATION - THOUGHT, BELIEF, FEELING

**Questioner:** Please join I've been exploring the idea of um I become aware that I manifest my preferences by thought intellectually and I have a sense that in fourth density you I would manifest more with my total being not just from in a sense now you can begin to realize first of all however that by the time you have the thought that is not the first thing you have done you follow me.

**Bashar:** Yes. What is the thought is a recognition of that which already exists within you as a belief in terms of what you prefer. Therefore by the time you have the thought it is a reflection of what already exists within you. Knowing that can allow you to begin to simply feel it from the levels of your being that are above thought. You follow me? You are simply shifting your focus as to where you allow yourself to recognize that you are that idea. You can recognize that you are an idea from thought. You can recognize that you are an idea from feeling. And you can recognize that you are an idea from belief. And you can recognize that you are an idea from knowingness. Whatever frequency you choose to recognize yourself as an idea from, that is the symbology that you will use to represent the method by which you think you have arrived at that empress. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Uh-huh. Um, I would like to uh exercise other ways of manifesting other than thought, more through belief and feeling.

**Bashar:** All right. Again, as we just said, if you understand the concept that to have the thought, it has to go through your belief first, then simply recognize that by knowing that you can begin to function in that way. Because if you have the concept at all, you are then the being that is functioning in that way or you would never have the idea. You can only perceive what you contain. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes, I do. for you.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

**Questioner:** So sir, go ahead. On along the same lines, um I it's my understanding that that you have said that idea creates thought which creates emotion. Is that is that understanding correct?

**Bashar:** Something like that. It can be work in that way. But in terms of what you may call the linear progression, there is existence, there is then knowingness, then there is belief, then there is emotion, then there is thought, then there is physicalization.

**Questioner:** Okay. The reason I asked that is because it's my understanding that that who I guess is a counterpart of yours in some way, feels that emotion pre and the thought.

**Bashar:** That is what I said. Oh, existence, knowingness, belief, emotion, thoughts, physicality. I see. Okay, that's where I was. Okay.

#### 5. SPIRIT, BODY, AND OVERSOUL RELATIONSHIP

**Questioner:** Yes. I would like to ex get a clearer understanding or of your perspective of the relationship between a spirit, a person himself, a spiritual being if you will, and the body. It's my a concept a conceptual framework that I am comfortable with at the moment but I'm not certain it aligns with your percept perspective on all right is that there is a body and it's kind of you know it sort of occurs through sexual intercourse and reproduction and so forth and a spiritual being who is capable of existing with full consciousness independently and separate from the physical re realm makes a conscious decision to pick up or assume responsibility for this particular body and it might happen while it's still in the womb or after it comes out. That's immaterial. But what I'm driving at is that conceptual framework of the relationship where my this physical form that I'm animating and operating through that is valid for how it happens in the third density structure that you have created your universe to be. Yes.

**Bashar:** Okay.

**Questioner:** Do you have a different take or perspective on it?

**Bashar:** In a sense, you will find that our perception extends to the idea that what you call the physical body in this way and the totality of physical reality is simply a projection of the belief system of the consciousness in this way and also that what you call a physical body is in a sense actually spirit. It is the soul in physical terms. Not so much that a soul literally exists in it, but it is an expression of the soul in physical terms.

**Questioner:** Well, first of all, those two concepts seem quite different.

**Bashar:** Yes and no.

**Questioner:** Okay. Is it true that a body could have a life of its own independently of its oversoul?

**Bashar:** There is consciousness that goes into let us say creating physical reality. And there are types of manifestations that can be in a sense body without the same type of soul consciousness that you would normally recognize. It is within so to speak an individual. Those bodies, those projections in your vernacular are usually referred to as by locations.

**Questioner:** I don't know where.

**Bashar:** All right. You can in this way look at it this way. Now again understand all this is in a sense very arbitrary and a great deal of labeling goes into this idea. But as it fits into the structure of the reality that you have already defined, it works this way. You as a physical being may have an idea of yourself that may be more than can be contained in the single body you have created it. But it is an idea that still partakes of the form in which you have created yourself to be. So what you will do for usually a very brief period of time is you will duplicate your body and it will be out walking around in the world. In your terms, it is not the original you but it will act much like you. Individuals who are sensitive to oric field may not feel it to really be in a sense alive in the same way they may feel you are. And to them they may feel it is a hollow body. It is animated by the idea you are and not in and of itself the recipient of a complete soul form as you are. But it is an extension of the soul that you are in this body and it serves certain purposes and can act them out and then usually will disappear or vanish in this sense. Therefore, you can look upon it as let us say a simolacum, a model or a golem if you will.

**Questioner:** I understand everything you've said, but I'm still grappling with the what seems to be a reasonably large difference between the relationship between my experience of myself as a spiritual being. I conceptually feel or the con the conceptual framework within which I've operated for a number of years is that I can exist independently. I that I that my consciousness is not the product of physicality.

**Bashar:** No, it is not the product of physicality. No.

**Questioner:** And and that in fact physicality is the product of your consciousness.

**Bashar:** Right. Right.

**Questioner:** And that in in fact who I am my personality is something I define independently of the body.

**Bashar:** All right. I understand your terminology, but also understand that because physicality is a product of consciousness, physicality is also who you are. It's also who you are. Not exclusively, yes, but also in addition to everything you are. Physicalness is also who you are. It is an expression of your consciousness and cannot be separated from your consciousness except by the illusion that it can be.

**Questioner:** And how well what now let's maybe that's the point. the illusion that one I describe something and you said well in terms of third density that's appropriate but in terms of fourth density my description of the way things are isn't will simply begin to understand or have the sense that as a soul perhaps an analogy let us say there is a framework like unto what you call a doorway big enough for you to walk through all Okay. There is within that framework however entirely filling the framework let us say a sheet of rubber. All right. Okay. Now you stand on one side of that doorway facing the rubber sheet. Okay. You are in fourth density reality. Okay. Let us say on the other side of the door is third density reality. You follow me? Yes. Now you walk into the rubber sheet and from the other side someone viewing you would see the outline of your floor. You follow me? Now what they would see would be considered to be the physical body. Right? It is taking its imprint from the idea of the body on this side of the doorway. Okay? Now when you choose to step backwards then the physical body in a sense disappears back into the homogeneous field out of which it was created. Therefore, understanding is not so much that it is truly in a sense separate from you, but it is intimately connected to your willingness to take the step into the other dimension beyond the framework of the doorway. And then you can say it is in a sense a reflection or a projection of your soul as you choose to stand, however far you choose to stand in that doorway on the other side.

**Questioner:** Thank you. I got it. There's just one more. I mean, I really got it. There's just one little piece, which is I understand that conceptually I have no problem. But then at the same time, I see within third density reality that for example, this body that I have and presumably all the other bodies in the room were created as a result of an ongoing sexual reproductive occur.

**Bashar:** But that is all part and parcel of the fact that you as a non-physical entity, the oversoul together with all the other oversouls designed the universe to be that way. And so it is still only a projection of consciousness no matter how much of a law it seems to be from the physical point of view.

**Questioner:** Yes. And that's not my problem. All right. The point I understand that collectively we create this game. The game seems to have a certain amount of automatic pilot to it. Of course, it's just cranking forward and all of a sudden this body arrives.

**Bashar:** But the automatic pilot is your oversoul.

**Questioner:** Well, but at what in other words, you have spoken about Let me put it this way from the oversoul perspective. It is not automatic. It is consciously creative.

**Bashar:** I I understand and ongoing. It only appears to be automatic from the physical point of view because you do not see the source of the engine that drives it.

**Questioner:** I understand that right if you have spoken of for example you gave us an analogy about if the oversold decides that your personality is going to experience a hall then you're going to experience that hall whether you're running skipping jumping laughing flooding it with water swimming whatever therefore the hallway is what you are finding to be the automatic or predestined mechanisms but my experience that I have recalled if you will or picked up alternate whatever I remember my birth. So what?

**Questioner:** Well, so it seemed as if it was at that moment that I decided or a little bit before that moment actually sometime before I decided as a spiritual being with consciousness sort of operating a little bit off from the visibility. I decided that these two people were going to that I was going to have them as my parents.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Understand there are also levels of existence in non-physical reality that have been created as well. And you can have a perspective in non-physical reality that is very similar to physical reality in the level that is just above physical reality. That level is the astral level and is not the oversoul level.

**Questioner:** What you are remembering is a memory in the non-physical astral realm.

**Questioner:** Well, okay. How many levels between astral and over?

**Bashar:** In a sense, seven in that sense from physicality all the way up.

**Questioner:** Could you enumerate them?

**Bashar:** In this way, you will have created the idea of what you call a physical body, an astral body, an etheric body, a causal body, a mental body, a spirit form body. In that way, a godlike body in that sense. There can be variations even within several of the different levels. It is quite holographic beyond a certain point. And in this way, some of the separations can be created to be more than what is usually experienced or it can be created that they are less. In some realities, there are not that many levels. Simply understand that you have created several of these ideas to reinforce the idea of this physical reality by surrounding it with a non-physical reality that also partakes of the idea of some degree of separation to allow yourself to remain within the physical reality to experience what you chose. So you will find that many times in between lives so to speak you do not go all the way up so to speak let us say to the complete overview of the idea but only a little way up so that you will still remain within the understanding of the focus of what physical reality was all about otherwise you would lose that idea altogether.

**Questioner:** I got it thank you. I just now wonder if you would define more completely each of those other levels like what is the astral level, the etheric level and all that because these are terms I've heard in the past and never knew what anybody was talking about.

#### 6. DEFINITIONS OF THE LEVELS

**Bashar:** All right. Now let us say the definitions will vary to some degree throughout the different cultures upon our planet and throughout different civilizations. But in this way you can understand that the astral level will in a sense be made of a different kind of matter a more rarified matter but there still will be some degree of the idea of the experience of materiality to it. The astral level will represent nonphysical fourth density reality. Fourth density is the last density in which you can experience both physical reality and non-physical reality. So the astral level will be the fourth density non-physical counterpart in that way. You will find therefore it is more highly accelerated than physical matter. But many of the experiences within it though far more ranging in the freedom in which you have to create what you experience and be a little bit outside the idea of time and space will still carry with it some of the experiences that you would find familiar so to speak within this reality you are now in in physical terms. The athetheric body in a sense is to some degree a mediator between the idea of the astral body and in a sense your mentality. It is an expression of your mentality and is not in and of itself so much an experience unto itself a world unto itself like the astral realm is but it is more let us say a connective form that you have created. It is in a sense what also creates the oric field. In that way, it is more an expression of embodiment as the mentality. In other words, an expression of the electromagnetic fluid, so to speak, the energy field by which you all find yourselves to be mentally linked in physical reality.

In this way, the causal plane will be connected to what we call the template identification and will be yet a little bit less physically material and will begin to understand itself in ways that is more towards the classic oversold point of view in the sense that it reviews many ideas of the connections to many lives simultaneously and feels itself to be in this way connected to all of them in that way. Simultaneously in the different levels in that way above that you find that what you begin to experience is yourself as all the different dimensions and alternate realities in which you exist. Above that you begin to experience yourself as the dimensions themselves. Above that you begin to experience the idea of yourself as living within all dimensions of experience. And above that you begin to experience yourself as all the dimensions of experience. And above that you begin to experience yourself as only the oneness in which all the dimensions of experience are created.

**Questioner:** Yes. Could you explain the transition from third to fourth density relative to what? This is a physiological transformation.

**Bashar:** Your material form is becoming even less dense and in this way you will have towards the middle and the end of the fourth density experience what you will call a light body in a sense. It will be very highly refined and in a sense will almost at the end of the fourth density experience be nothing more than an outward appearance a shell so to speak.

Ow yourself to know that you are the very same type of being. And if you can perceive that type of energy, simply live that way on your own planet. And then you will be allowing your energy to reflect to all other beings on your planet that they can also choose to live that way. And then your planet will also live a shell, so to speak, which will take 2 to 3,000 years approximately as we read your energy at this time. Correct. And when we say it is a refinement of the physical materiality you are used to living as now.

**Questioner:** And is the consciousness more closely aligned with the seventh level?

**Bashar:** Let us say it is more aware of its alignment and the seat of consciousness change action. What what is change? What in consciousness of consciousness? Is that also moving? Not so much. The change is not so much occurring in the higher level since the higher levels already understand what they are in that sense. But the idea is that fourth density physical reality becomes the final physical reflection that the physical universe is aligned with all the other levels. Whereas third density does not know it is aligned. That is the difference. Fourthly, physical reality is the expression of the physical reality. That is the understanding that physical reality is also an extension of the soul and not something truly separate. The greatest change is in the physical density, not in the non-physical ones in terms of the point of view.

**Questioner:** Thank you. From third to fourth, the greatest change is going to be the greatest change in the transformation from third to fourth density is within the transformation in physical terms itself to the higher levels of yourself. They are not changing. It is the physical portion of themselves that is changing the most drastically.

**Bashar:** Sure.

#### 7. CHOICE POINTS, TIMING, AND TRANSFORMATION

**Questioner:** All right. um moving on. You're talking about choice points in terms of when you say one say what are you willing to do when you know the idea of your future self your first and we can hold that that means we allow it that means we're partially already out of the moment that we're and in order to realize that when we make it actual down to the physical You simply have to allow yourself to know that in the moment you conceptualize that you are in that state. Then do not make and create the assumption that you have to do something to become that state. Recognize that in having the notion you are in the moment at state with those levels that there are more subtle changes. Once I would like to give an example um with the passing of the island of dark um in the middle of the night I went into a paper state and created a donut that I during the process of releasing good and I also had the experience of listening to your voice and translating and explaining what he was saying to other people. Okay. Um and it wasn't in my awareness that I from what you say I interpreted that the pain and the fever which was not something I failed to make uncomfortable and there were judgments going on otherwise it was simply habitual remnant of separation and the point is at what level it didn't happen when I was it was judging understand that what you are doing right now each and every one of you in terms of the transformation from third to fourth density is existing in a quasi planar reality, a quasi limbo state in which you are not exactly one and not exactly the other, but the idea of the transformation itself. And thus many of these experiences will always be felt an experience when you allow yourself to recognize that you are in the transformational mode.

**Questioner:** um mode to smooth this. I'm very well aware of the pain. Simply allow yourself to experience what you have chosen to experience and know that the more allowing you are the sooner the idea of the pain will no longer be necessary and it will alleviate.

**Bashar:** And it feels like where I tend to be pulled is to want to know consciously what the judgment is in order to that is not necessary. It is only in the idea that you are habitually still making comparison between the past you and the so-called future you are becoming. So I'm making a comparison and I'm making understand you can look at it this way and perhaps this will allow you to assist yourself in bringing to consciousness the idea of the transformation an idea we discussed last night of your time. First of all for now if you must make any separation at all then simplify it in the extreme. Let us drop the labels subconscious, unconscious, higher conscious. Let us just say for now that there is physical consciousness and non-physical consciousness. All right? So let us say in those terms there is only one physical consciousness and one type of unconsciousness. All right. Now if you can understand in this way as we discussed last night is your time that let us say if you feel you do not know something consciously and that you do know it unconsciously you would say it is in that sense unconscious knowingness. If you allow yourself to balance the equation, put an equal sign after that equation and reverse the formula on the other side, then you will understand that what is also equal to the idea of unconscious knowingness is conscious unknowingness, which means you are choosing not to know. Therefore, if you find that you have unconscious knowingness and not conscious knowingness and not conscious knowingness, then recognize you have conscious unknowingness, which means you are consciously choosing to not know in the present. Allow those ideas to be blended and balanced and you will find yourself to be at the center of both creations. You yourself are the equal sign. You yourself are the crux point, the crossover point of the infinity symbol between the microcosm and the macrocosm. That is why the infinity symbol has that shape. You are at the crossroads of all ideas without time, without faith in the now moment in which the microcosm folds back upon itself to go through you. The equal sign to balance out and create the macrocosm on the other side which folds back into its out and goes back through you to create the microcosm and infin item. Allow the ideas of the future you and the past you to blend within the understanding that you are the equality and are the creation of both ideas. And in that way as you allow yourself to exist within the center of your being within any experience that you have that willingness to know will allow you to experience whatever judgment remains as quickly as you possibly can and you will acclimate to the energy to follow me.

**Questioner:** Yes. Is it the understanding that whatever judgment has remained is working itself out?

**Bashar:** Of course. Of course it is.

**Questioner:** And I'm curious about why I don't know why I'm curious or drawn to it, but that it is in conscious unknownness. And I have conscious questions saying, "What is it that caused me to feel pain that way? What can I do to stop that skill change? Is it I am feeling also understand that all of those ideas in the perspective you are creating are also remnants of the habit and they will change as well. The more you allow yourself to simply be no matter what you choose to be, the more you will allow yourself to continue to simply be and you will be an answer not a question.

**Questioner:** following. Thank you, Michelle. Good. I'm having confusion with Good. Yes, I think so too. With the notions of acceleration, time and timing. All right. Why is there I understand why the construct of time. I'm ready to let go of that one.

**Bashar:** Timing is simply the event you choose to experience. Why must there be timing at all? Because it canotes some sense of time. No. To me, time is subject to timing, not the other way around. Timing is the higher self function. The knowingness of the event of the relationship that you are, that is timing. When all the factors come together and attract themselves to form an event, how you choose to view the event determines what type of time it takes to experience the event within a lot of time, a little time, good time, bad time. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes. It seems though as as if I'm floating along in what feels like a fourth density idea and then I'll find myself back in my habitual ritual and it seems as if I've used time in order to get back to the habitual ritual and I want to know why I bother to do that.

**Bashar:** It seems like it's timing that in a sense you can be creating the idea that if you are judging that you should be going faster than you are then it is the timing that in a sense will allow you to allow everything else to catch up. Yeah. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes I do. Thank you.

**Bashar:** But it is the sense of feeling like you must rush ahead that creates the type of time to allow the timing to occur that perhaps you do not enjoy. Step one. Now in this way recognize also simply that timing is the idea of the events you chose to be in this life. They are in your terms, as we have said many times, the idea of your dates with destiny. You cannot by definition miss them. You follow me?

**Questioner:** Yes, I do.

**Bashar:** Therefore, relax and enjoy exactly where you are because exactly where you are in the now moment is exactly what is going to get you to where you want to be.

**Questioner:** I understand. Thank you.

#### 8. THE INFINITY SYMBOL AND LEVELS OF SELF

**Questioner:** Thank you. When you were describing the when you were describing the infinity symbol, you used the word you. Which of our many selves were you referring to by that word?

**Bashar:** Thank you. All of you. But specifically because in this sense we are talking about the physiological manifestation of what you perceive to be the physical universe microcosm and macrocosm. I was specifically referring also to the physical expression of yourself to allow yourself to know that if you know the physical expression of yourself is also at the center of the physical universe then it is also aligned with the center of the you on every level which is always at the center of beingness.

**Questioner:** Did you follow that? I did follow it. I'm but I'm still grappling with this other conceptual framework that I'm trying to figure out how to integrate it to this larger understanding. I Perhaps you are creating it to be more complex than it needs to be. Understand that all you really need to do is to continue to live your life and do what you enjoy.

**Questioner:** No, I understand that. But conceptually, the kind of concept that you're saying you are at the center of everything says to me, oh, you mean the oversoul.

**Bashar:** That is true for every level.

**Questioner:** Now, now always has been. We're just quick. You see, it seems to me that a physiological personality doesn't have normally the people you meet on planet Earth here don't have the level of awareness and understanding and it does not mean anything whether the physiological personality is aware of its creator or not. It is still the creator of the physical universe that it perceives.

**Questioner:** My conceptual framework that I've been operating with is that it's the it's the and I didn't see that there were I mean I didn't understand that there were all these different levels. It was just oversoul physiological personality nothing in between. So my conceptual framework was it's the oversoul that is the creator. The physiological personality is just sort of like a puppet.

**Bashar:** Let us say this no not really. The oversoul is the creator of the concept of physical reality. The physiological consciousness is the creator of the experiential physical reality. In other words, the physical consciousness fleshes out so to speak the physical concept the oversoul creates. The oversoul creates the idea that there can even be the concept physical reality. But to the oversoul it is only a concept. What gives it solidity is the consciousness of the mythical consciousness.

**Questioner:** And what relationship is there between I as an oversoul whatever that is and I as this physiological person that's the relationship in a sense again you can simply view if you wish to view it in this way that the physiological personality is a creation of the oversoul but also its own creator its own free will is manifestable in physical reality. ity. In other words, the oversoul has created the physical I I concept that the physiological creator will experience that helps a lot and other people have questions. I didn't grapple with it. Right.

#### 9. DREAM OF ONENESS

**Questioner:** Yes. Um I had a dream which I would like to share with you which seemed to in some way partake of a lot of the things that were said here tonight. All right. and see I would like to comment on okay I'm in a room and in the next room there's a young boy at the blackboard and on the blackboard using just the number one he is showing the many different ways that you can express oneness with just using one he begins to list a whole bunch of things he shows one he shows square root of one right 1 * 1 and 1 / 1 and 1 2 and so There's a lot packed into that that I would like to know more about.

**Bashar:** More you wish to separate from the oneness.

**Questioner:** I am I I experience myself as separated from the oneness and I am the idea of moving toward the oneness of becoming of being oneness.

**Bashar:** If you say so. Do you know that you are the little boy? Do you know you are the wonder in the dream?

**Questioner:** Uh I know in the little boy I in the dream you are the boy. You are the chalk. You are the chalkboard. You are all the ones on the chalkboard. You are the room the chalkboard is in. You are the entire interaction and event of the boy writing on the chalkboard. Therefore, you are the oneness that can experience itself as the fragmentation of all the different symbols, let us say props that you have created to create the scenario of oneness. But you also understand that because you are also the dream, you are also not only all of the props that go into making up the dream, but you are the dream itself. So, you are at the same time not the idea of needing to be this or that, but you are this and that. You are both all of the pieces and the oneness that all the pieces express.

**Questioner:** This dream occurs now at the eyes of March and it seems that it's related to that.

**Bashar:** Of course, as we said, that idea of that date symbolically for you represents a doorway, an elevation, an acceleration of the momentum of the consciousness of your entire civilization. Therefore, it is not surprising in this way that many you have experienced openings in that sense, in whatever form your consciousness saw fit in whatever form your physiological consciousness was comfortable in forming to recognize the oneness that you are and allow you to see the integration in whatever terms you would find it acceptable.

**Questioner:** So as you are saying these things and I'm creating the imagery as you say them I see the possibility of moving all these props into blending into a oneness.

**Bashar:** All right. But understand that all the props are already a oneness as well. Understand that all that is knows itself as a oneness and also knows itself as a combination of all the individuality within it. To all that is there is no dichotomy, no contradiction in knowing itself as oneness in that way. It does not force all the pieces to merge together in an unrecognizable fashion for it to recognize its own oneness. It recognizes its own oneness in the infinite diversity within itself.

**Questioner:** So the the the all that there is that's doing it that you said as I am dreaming it then the all that is aspect of myself which is one of the top of the ladder that you just described a bit ago is function function there.

**Bashar:** Yes. Perhaps what you are calling in your civilization the confusion comes from this idea. Perhaps you have the notion that as you allow yourself to recognize oneness, you will somehow not recognize all the pieces anymore. And that is not the case. It is in the granting of validity and complete recognition to the infinite diversity within creation that allows you to create the sense of the oneness it all goes into making up.

In your term in a sense you can look at it scientistically always the idea of what you call synergy on your planet that the whole is greater than the sum of the parts. In other words you have the parts. You can recognize how working together they form the idea of a whole. And in this way you can look at it simply in that way and you can also recognize that because you can look at it in a sense also as the unit it forms in addition to the functioning of its parts. And you recognize that it has oneness intrinsically in and of itself. And without the parts there would not be the oneness. And without the oneness there would not be the parts. Both of them are necessary to have the oneness and to have the parts. It is not going to be a this or that scenario. It is going to be a this and that scenario. Each higher density does not eliminate the density it has been. It contains it. It adds it to the understanding of itself. It validates completely all it has ever been and recognizes therefore that it is in the recognition of all the individuality it has experienced that it will allow itself to know itself as the oneness that embraces all of that individuality. Is this clarifying the idea at all?

**Questioner:** Yes. Thank you.

#### 10. DAILY LIFE, FOOD, AND HABITAT IN FOURTH DENSITY

**Questioner:** You then you when you mention you put out but what's happening when you say is that somehow related to us? If you wish in that way to make that analogy, you lay. Okay. So that so that and in this way recognize that not every being upon your planet pronounces it. So that the the sinuses actually represent my language. You may also in this way if you wish to be symbolic about it and you may look at it in whatever way your imagination created for you for that is valid for you and attuned to your vibration also as the idea that every single component that goes into making up the sum which becomes greater in this way is a symbol a sign. Therefore the idea is sign energy if you wish. The energy of all the signs go into making up the action that is the oneness of all the components.

**Questioner:** Thank you guys. the the actual location, right? First of all, the first idea. Oh, yes. Yes. Yes. It is quite normal. And uh And uh also quite bubbly. your normal everyday moment by moment activity um full of laughter. It is made of love. It is made of ecstasy. Therefore, all the effects of everything that we do is always going to be an act of love. Always will be centering in that way and therefore always expressed joyfully. Your expression is going to be manifest to a degree. Although we do not have exactly the form you call painting in exactly the same way that you do, but we have similar ideas. Yes. Most of your time that we understand. Um but Um, all of it. Most of it. All of it. Okay. What we call an ecstatic explosion of coincidence.

**Questioner:** Not only physically. Energetic. Okay. Energetic. We ought to embrace continuously energetically have that experience of rather than separating. Okay. Are you familiar with our perception of the terminology is a recognition of a state of being. But the actual term does not exist within the physiological channel vocabulary.

**Questioner:** What do you find? Chaos is another place in another galaxy which has very similar um All right. Now understand in this way again we will usually recognize as we have said most places like that as states of being but in this way also recognize there are many many many many civilizations within our own galaxy that also exist that way.

**Questioner:** Do you feel your feminineness and your masculine male aspect and your female aspect are all conscious?

**Bashar:** Yes. When you embrace each other's femaleeness and male and acknowledge it and is that part of the manifestation of okay that is obvious by definition. If there is one myth, there is obviously blending of any idea of polarity within the being. Now, planet Earth is sticking to the concept of activity. What how would you best describe what you do? Because I can't use the word activity that is not in your terms a word that really is let us say so far off the mark. We are always simply creation, action, act of doing. Therefore, activity in this way is not really a term that will be so very different from our civilization. Now, do you mean activity in a negative sense?

**Questioner:** No, I mean activities um for example, we do not so much sleep as we are living our dreams and there is not so much separation between the physical and the non-physical reality. The alignment to your higher self in the non-physical reality is the majority of the reason why you think you need sleep.

**Bashar:** Say that again. What you call sleep is more simply a time allowing an alignment from the physical level to the non-physical level so that you will allow yourself the opportunity to sustain in that sense the physiological energy. But it is not so much the idea itself of the act of sleep per se, the physiological act of sleep that replenishes the physical form. It is being in touch with your higher self that does it. So the more in alignment we become with our higher self, the less um what would a typical day be like? You will find there will be opportunity in this way to share with many civilizations what I am sharing with you. Now first of all you follow me. This in your vernacular let us say is one of my choices. If you wish to call it a job all right but there is no negative connotation in this sense. Although I will find myself immersed in many ideas having to do with what you may call in your civilization in your vocabulary technical engineering. You follow me? Also there will be sharing in various forms of activity with many different beings. There will be sharing of beings. There will be sharing of experience. There will be manifestations of love in various forms. Whether it is in the idea of simply what you may call interpersonal relations or the idea of expression in what you may call part that will be usually difficult. There will be also exploration of many different areas of spaceime and some other alternate dimensions of reality.

Will that have answered your question?

**Questioner:** It answers. All right. So, I'd like to get a sense of what it's like to live a new.

**Bashar:** Then allow yourself to know that you are the very same type of being. And if you can perceive that type of energy, simply live that way on your own planet. And then you will be allowing your energy to reflect to all other beings on your planet that they can also choose to live that way. And then your planet will also live in exodus. Okay? If you wish to see anything on your own planet change, change yourself first. Become and act like the reality you desire.

**Questioner:** All right. Okay. Now this is a very do you have habitat do you live in or do you create from time to time there are structures they will be more malleable than your own and they will from time to time serve purposes but they will in this way be relatively sparse as you would say upon our planet the majority of the surface of our planet in this way will not be in your terms artificially built up but will be very parklike. You will also find that at any given time so to speak fully two thirds of our population will usually be in spacecraft and not upon the surface of the planet.

**Questioner:** Anyway at basically yes you would be able in your terms with a very slight adjustment to live in our space and on this planet. Yes. And you manifest at will.[Music]

**Bashar:** In what sense do you mean that? You manifest whatever your thoughts want. In other words, evolving you wanted exhabitat and then thinking we are the ecstatic explosion of coincidence. Whatever idea we know ourselves to be, our physical reality will reflect by the interactions of all the other individuals and situations and circumstances within it quite automatically. Obviously yours is too. But you have become Yes. You are becoming conscious of it. And that is why many of you have begun to experience physiological synchronicities more and more and more of it.

**Questioner:** Yes. We We can do it all. Yes. What's your name? favorite. I do not have a favorite. You like the moment. What I am doing in the moment is my favorite. In the next moment, that is my favorite. Otherwise, I would not be doing it. Okay. You require food as in no food. Very very sparsely and it is not exactly like you understand food anymore at all. It is more of a symbol and it is mostly energy absorption in a sense.

**Questioner:** Uh do you hear food directly? Do you process it in any way?

**Bashar:** No, direct.

**Questioner:** Um you manifest your food. Yes. Very good. good. simply by thinking in a sense as we would say what we call the primary example of our sustenance is a creation of the mass mentality of our planet. It was brought into existence by our understanding. But you could actually have to have your physiological forms go out and pull something out of the ground or it grows in a sense as a natural idea as a natural what you would perceive as a let us say fruit vegetable combination idea but again we are at the stage in our civilization where we are also beginning to not need that tool as well.

#### 11. REINCARNATION, ANIMALS, AND DOLPHINS

**Questioner:** In in involving your physical manifestation, do you feel the bone expressing in an overall agreed upon sense? Yes. Do you as an individual know when you are? Do you mean within my individual life? Yes. Not so much in the realm of time, but within the realm of timing. Yes. Um, have obviously you've already chosen when you're going to trans. You're not quite clear exactly when that's going to be.

**Bashar:** There is no need for the clarity of when. What is clear is why and that is what the timing is. That would be file.

**Questioner:** Yes. Um there's a lot more questions but this has been very nice. Thank you for an introduction into the unique expression of all that is that you happen to be. Thank you. Thank you. Last night I think it was last night you said that you people do not go that you people do not go through repeated physical physiological reincarnation in the way that we're doing on earth.

**Bashar:** We have had and to some degree to some degree some individuals maintain that idea simply it is more conscious than what you have created. It is a clear choice to do so for specific reasons that are still manifesting positively and do not create the need to do it but simply it is done out of conscious choice. So the majority of your population, your civilization continues to do it out of conscious choice in order to maintain a tow hold if you will in physical reality in order to be able to communicate with people like it is our joyous choice.

**Questioner:** Another thing you said about reincarnation, he said that the corpuses for dolphins are the only other physiological form that goes through uh repeated reincarnation.

**Bashar:** No, no, no, no. All life on your planet reincarnates in that sense. But what you call the dolphins has created like you as the only other species to have karmic reincarnation.

**Questioner:** What is the difference?

**Bashar:** Simply that which you understand to be the animal life forms that reincarnate do so on a completely knowing level. They do not create the idea of the separation so much that you have created to think you are in a cycle that you cannot get out of. Now the dolphins in that way are not exactly recognizing that idea to the same extent but they are similar to what we have just described to you with regard to our civilization tied to you in that way and so make the choice to have a karmic tie with you and reincarnate because of that. In other words, simply look at the dolphins as water humans.

**Questioner:** You mean so bears and lions and giraffes are continuing? I mean one giraffe body dies and the consciousness of that giraffe body goes and picks up another giraffe in a sense. Okay. And in this way it is a part of the flow of the consciousness of the cycles you have created but they are only reflecting what you as the cocreating species upon your planet have chosen to create your planet to be. You are interacting with the dolphins and they are interacting with you as water human and land human.

**Questioner:** Okay. But then do giraffes and cats and dogs and lions have those different levels? You know they do they have astral bodies and appear and cause?

**Bashar:** Yes in a sense again. But understand they are this expression in the knowingness of consciousness. They do not need to think about themselves.

**Questioner:** You think about yourselves. So do it also. Does that mean that we are worse off than to ask?

**Bashar:** No. Are we more spiritually evolved or less spiritually evolved? Let me put it this way. Only you only you think of the idea of spiritual evolution. They are what they are and that is all they need to know. They are not less or more. You have the ability to choose to think that you can be less or more. Why do you bother? Because you choose as the creator which you create all that you can create. Then why would you create first? Because you can. Because it is an experience that you can have. Understand there is no judgment about about us. But in the the larger perspective, we're going through a transformation from third to fourth density.

**Questioner:** What density are animals?

**Bashar:** They will in a sense go with you, but they go with you as reflections. They will reflect your attitude. In other words, as we have said, the animals upon your planet are territorial because you are. The animals on our planet are not territorial.

**Questioner:** What do you mean territorial?

**Bashar:** They do not lay claim to sections of land. They transpire and transverse wherever they will according to whatever climate they appreciate in that way. And they are not in a sense now at this time on our planet basically predatory. They are symbiotic. They reinforce each other as we reinforce each other within our society. As long as you fight each other, your animals fight each other to reflect that idea to you. They are reflections. They are guides. They are extensions of your creator consciousness in a very loving fashion to give you something to relate to as your natural automatic self.

**Questioner:** Okay, I can understand that humans and all the animals are simply fragments of an entire planetary consciousness. Is that what you're saying?

**Bashar:** The animals and what you call nature in that way are fragments and the humans in that sense are also fragments but they are the fragments that also created all the other fragments.

**Questioner:** When you say human though, are you once again human? Which of the levels of uh that you spoke of before are you referring to merely the physiological, the oversoul, somewhere in between?

**Bashar:** All right. How about this? Let us say on the oversoul level you are for the sake of definition relatively homogeneous. You project a particular idea of yourself to create the idea of a fragment in physical form. let us say with some of the remaining material that does not specifically focus into the human into the human form then out of that remaining homogeneousness there is the assignment placed upon that homogeneous energy that it can become a physiological reflection according to how the physiological human needs to see it reflected. So that is animal mineral vegetable consciousness.

The impregnation of it into physiological form then comes from let us say the higher self which is a more rarified let us say perhaps the astral self to make it clearer form of the human form and it chooses the idea to create the impression of whatever forms in nature are needed to reflect the particular human manifestation that has been interjected into the physical reality.

**Questioner:** Okay. Put it in an earlier session you spoke of in evolution through density. First there was minerals and then there was plants in a sense. Yes. But this is something that has nothing to do with intimate reincarnational cycles.

**Bashar:** Evolution cycles of the soul and reincarnation cycles of the soul are two different concepts.

**Questioner:** Well, could you help me understand how they're different in simply you will find that there are opportunities for the idea of consciousness to fashion itself in many different ways in many different densities. You can have consciousness that expresses itself as the idea of mineralness and it may create the idea of an advancement to vegetable and animal in this way and in a sense to a human form expression. But within each evolutionary stage there is then within that stage reincarnation only as the same thing. Basically mineral mineral mineral mineral mineral yes vegetable vegetable vegetable animal animal human with some idea again of what you call two man dolphin interaction since you are both in the overall sense human possibility of inner species dolphins are human in some way not so much in the physiological sense no but in the consciousness we're talking about body but not talking not speaking physiologically or communicating physiolog. Oh, you can communicate in this way simply not reproduce physiologically.

**Questioner:** I know that there have been people over the years, the last 10 or 15 years, there's been a great deal of 20 years interest in communicating with the dolphins that attempt to do that.

**Bashar:** Yes, most of them have come. You are awakening to the fact that they are your brothers and sisters. And if you were both let us say to use your term out of your bodies, you would see each other as the same kind of soul which is different physiological forms. Not out of the body. What? If you were both out of the body, you would recognize each other as the same kind of soul. They just happen to have different physiological metaph. So they are aliens to you. You are alien to them but you are occupying the same world.

**Questioner:** Is there some advice you could give us on how better to communicate with them? They obviously with your imagination but they actually have a language a symbolic language. Yeah. But in this way it is also a physiological reflection of their feelings and imagination more than the idea of analytical thought as your language is.

**Bashar:** How can I for instance follow a dolphin feeling like okay there's a place where I've gotten to myself where up to this last point up until this very moment I have lost the communication now I can feel more channel then simply go and interact now understand you can create ideas and symbols in their language and they will respond. What is their language? The idea that you spoke of physiologically.

What you perceive to be the clicks, the whistles. You can learn to speak each other's language to a certain extent. Physiologically to a certain extent the complexity of theirs to you will not manifest in your mode exactly and the complexity of yours to them will not manifest exactly. You may create let us say human dolphin combination. If you wish to communicate physiologically at all it can be done in this way. You will still understand that the basic fundamental understanding will come from the telepathic and emotional connection.

**Questioner:** There's a place where I tend to where I can put so much emphasis on words. I need you to hear words coming through this channel that I think what about what about action? Do you not yourself say that actions speak louder?

**Bashar:** Well then good for understand in this way. Let us say if you wish to start off on your best foot forward. You may simply always feel free to begin by expressing unconditional love to them. They will respond. Thank you.

#### 12. SPACESHIPS, DENSITY, AND CONTACT TIMELINE

**Questioner:** Thank you. But your planet in our same galaxy, the Milky Way. Yes. But not in your density vibration. So So you cannot see it physiologically yet. But at one time you said that if Well, here's another thing. Can do you need to make a shift to see yours? No. Do you need to be in spaceship to travel through space and time or could you just man just pop just appear into the something we are also learning. There are civilizations that do that. What disappear in physical form wherever you want to be.

**Bashar:** But you still need to travel. We recognize that the ship is only an extension of our consciousness. But in this way, we create that idea again to serve many purposes. One of them also simply because we enjoy the idea and another simply because it gives you something to relate to.

**Questioner:** Well, if you were to come with your spaceship as you suggested may be happening in the near future. Yeah. Could we in our physical form go on your spaceship, go to your planet and see your planet?

**Bashar:** Yes. Understand that there will be a shift in density that will be made in the journey. You will not know the difference. You will simply think you have gone into the ship, traveled and stepped out and you are in the same universe, but you are not. I mean, are you taking us?

**Questioner:** No. In this way, recognize that the idea we have expressed many times is simply that when your civilization is willing to consider itself equal to all other civilizations, then you will allow us to meet you equally. As long as you consider it to be something more, something better, something more spiritual than you have here, then you yourself are allowing yourself to negate the invitation. 2 are not functioning equally with the idea of our civilization.

**Questioner:** I understand it seems my perception of the speed of growth going on on earth here that it's going to be 50 or maybe that's 50 or 100 years before the planet overall will be ready to do what you're suggesting.

**Bashar:** Understand first of all in our perception as it stands now which is the only type of prediction that can ever be made. Right? Simply our perception is that by what you call 1,996 the majority of the population on your planet will be aware that your planet is in communication with other planets and that will have an effect that will accelerate your estimation.

**Questioner:** That's good. But previously you suggested that perhaps you or other people would be arriving in Satia by 1996.

**Bashar:** Yes, I do. But if that's only if understand what a difference that idea can make, you can all literally change in the flash of a second, right? But I can understand that having the sky on Earth littered with hundreds of spaceships would cause a lot of rewiring to go on. But that's the card before the horse. One moment. Yes. The rewiring will occur and then you will perceive the ships that are already there. Understand that around your planet there are thousands of ships. Are there people see those ships? some from time to time because they move from from Yes. Yes.

#### 13. MONOC - OVERSOUL FRAGMENTS

**Questioner:** I know this has been asked of you the last few nights, but I have to ask it. It has never been asked before.

**Bashar:** Good. Because you are you and you are a new you and everything you ask is always a new question. Thank you.

**Questioner:** I I wish to refer to a being that seems to be coming through me um and has presented himself with the name Monoc. I've been working with this person and is this number two or three? Three. That's what I mean. He's getting busy. Very different. Um I've been working with someone who evidently asked about it Tuesday night and then someone else asked about it last night. Okay. What I am interested in is who is that? Is that something?

**Bashar:** Our understanding for now is the recognition of innocent an oversoul that is beginning to awaken consciousness within all of its fragments. Plus, it's calling on everybody. Okay. Everyone that it is in physical terms.

**Questioner:** Well, then does that mean that the people that I'm talking to about that are counterparts to their counterparts of myself?

**Bashar:** Well, but the oversoul is myself and that self and that self.

**Questioner:** This it is one of the markers of the beginning of the realization of the synchronicity that can begin to occur when the fragments of the physical consciousness are willing to align with the consciousness of the oversoul so that it can manifest itself consciously in physical terms. Conscious as all that it is. Mhm. Do you have any idea of the purpose of monarchy to know itself?

**Bashar:** Oh well that's everyone's perfect. Yes. Okay. Understand again simply it is choosing that symbolic formula to identify itself in that each and every fragment of itself is one path in a sense one eye a monle into physical reality. single sight. single sight. Okay. You are all of its eyes. In the same way that every being in creation, every being, all beings are all the different ways all that is has of looking at it senses. You are simply seeing this enacted out in a sense let us say on a smaller scale one oversold conscious manifestation for sure

#### 14. GUIDES AND OUT-OF-BODY PUSH

**Questioner:** I had a few months ago had a being in energy form appear twice within a period of a couple of weeks and uh I had I felt Why are you bringing this up now? Well, it it was interesting to me that I continue to forget about bringing it up to you before to discuss it. All right. I would seem to conveniently forget about it. All right. Uh and uh have you forgotten again? Yes. Yes. Continue. Anyway, this guy Um, I had the feeling that I was being both times pushed out of my physical body and I was wondering if there was any enlightenment.

**Bashar:** So once again, simply understand that to some degree that is accurate. But understand that all assistance and all guides lure you to yourself. So in a sense you were being coached to do your own pushing. No one else can push you. Right. I do understand that. They can lure you to push yourself. That is the function of a guide. Right? So that all that you will find will be your own selfmpowerment and you will not rely on the empowerment of someone else. Right? Therefore, all that you are becoming is allowing you to align with more of yourself so that you are beginning to recognize that you are in communication with other types of guides that are around you that coax you and encourage you to accelerate. Yet again, use your imagination. That is the doorway between your physical and non-physical reality. It is the channel. It is the translation device specifically attuned to the frequency that you are in both directions. It is where the blending occurs. In your imagination is where you exist as the dimension of all that you can be and are.

**Questioner:** Uh a little bit more on that. Uh was that a future self?

**Bashar:** What you perceived as the potential within the energy in a sense was let us say that in terms of what you felt to be assisting you part of it was and part of it was not. But again, it is our preference that these labels be considered quite arbitrary.

**Questioner:** I understand that. Thank you.

#### 15. ANGELS, GHOSTS, INNER EARTH, AND OTHER REALITIES

**Questioner:** Thank you. Sorry. In your conversation, um, no one has anyone or no one has ever experienced temporary death. There were, let us say in your vernacular, times past when some forms of the idea of separation were experienced in what you would call our history. But in this way, and again, in no way, shape, or form is this meant to be judgmental in our civilization, simply not to the extreme that your civilization has chosen to create it. In the now, no one can give experience of now, no one can give experience of separation. Correct. Except to the extent that we choose to to be of service to you and other consciousness in creation. And there is that type of separation. Since we are in a sense in fourth density physical reality, we still do recognize some of the ideas of separation to create a physical universe from a non-physical one. But all the manifestation, all the realization of our separation is positive.

Oh no, no, no, no. So understand in a sense to interact with you, let us say, if you will allow me to be colloquial for a minute, I have had to create a model of all of the ways you perceive your reality so that I could understand you. Otherwise, many of your concepts do not translate. And also in the now it is not a tool we need. There is no not as you understand it though.

So you're born as born in history. You are born solving the conscious at this time in our civilization. Yes. And therefore we are in communication with the souls before they are born and are in positive communication with them through the entire process and on through life and after. entering into.

There are two types of individuals upon our planet. Those that we have called in essentially the permanent population and there are some natural forms in this way. One being what you call a Kia. Look it up. also refer to what you call to be the ancient Egyptian civilization for they utilized some of that substance in this way and made blendings of it in that sense.

Where can I be found? Probably by those individuals who have made it their business to find it. You follow me? You have what you call in your society privilege. Thank you. They may also recommend two or three other suggestions.

**Questioner:** Okay. Um, we've come together to communicate with you and many other groups that have come up here today and One of the things that I've never heard someone ask is what is it that we can do in our coming together group?

**Bashar:** It has been asked many times and you do it already.

**Questioner:** Thank you. Thank you. Coming in when? Coming in April is now understandably that that is an overall understanding but I will give you a specific one. You have to be. If you're willing to share who you are, then you may be radiating like a beacon the idea that will attract others that are also radiating on similar vibrations. And you will discover within any group you are in all that. And you will therefore be provided a service to others by being who you are and letting them know what is available in your society. You, each and every one of you have a wealth of information. The only reason you may not know it is because you do not properly. Each and every being is a reflection of each and every being. When you are willing to share what you are, what you know yourself to be, you will then be giving another individual an opportunity to reflect the idea of what they represent to you. And you when you form your group, My name is If you wish an analogy in this way, the situation has occurred many times and does occur in our own civilization. Simply there can be though it is now more mental and simply known in times past again the beginning of this idea was simply for individuals when they found themselves coming together to simply state all the ideas that they were and allow the connection to and then they would go on about their way to I am the idea of I I am the idea of this. Next, I am the idea of this. I am the idea of this. Oh, my this and your that plan. All right. Would you like to do something about that? Yes, I would if I segment of conviction. The sharing time I experience Thank you. Thank you for viewing the idea and thank you for sharing it with us. You guys in association many times many times we are also working with your higher and your mind your future.

**Questioner:** How about about understand in your vernacular definition, an angel is a level of conscious entity that has never manifested itself in your understanding of physical terms.

**Bashar:** So recognize this. An angel has in a sense not yet experience all there is to experience. Please follow again. It is our perception that what you are calling an angel is a form of consciousness that is nonphysical and has never been. You have some idea where all of that demolished associated with Christianity. It's just created out of mind. Many times it is the product of your knowingness of all that is. And so when you choose what you wish to relate to and very often cloak the interminology that reflects the separation you have created upon your planet. You may be in touch with understanding innately, let us say unconsciously, that there are such things as consciousness that does not have a body and never has. So you will cloak it in a form that is fitting for the understanding at the time it simply is understood. thought it came from a time when the only way you could understand it was to give it some sort of ethereal nature and give it wings because you understood it was unlimited. Above you in that sense and therefore obviously the only thing above you in the sky at that time was a bird. It is a combination projection symbology from your archetypal math subconscious.

It is also a projection of archetypal submass consciousness. It is also some other thing. It is also a recognition that there are from time to time beings and civilizations that do cross over from one density to another in this way. and explore and project yourself from time to time in your own density. Also it is projecting some signs of your own consciousness that you quote in a manner you can understand according to the subconscious manifestation of your other type of energy which is only an expression of let us say that's part of your naturalness that you simply are not conscious of of your qualify as an angel by the definition.

What you call ghost is an astral form. More often than not, what you call poker night phenomena 99.9% of the time will be extensions of your own energy.

#### 16. INNER EARTH CIVILIZATIONS AND PARALLEL REALITIES

**Questioner:** Okay. There are measures on our planet relating to the fact that require other civilization living. It is not ignored density. It is in a slightly shifted parallel reality. But are they living underground?

**Bashar:** But as you enter that domain, you are not within what you would consider to be your Earth vibration any longer. even though it okay but in their I understand it would require a vibration shift to perceive them in their reality they perceive the idea that they inhabit the interior of a life and that somebody inhabit the exterior of the planet that they inhabit some of them yes and do some of them so they have just as many multiple parallel realities as you do so why are they choosing to inhabit this of the planet simply a reflection of the idea that they are expressing the civilization that exists as opposed to that exist I don't really understand in this way in a general sense I cannot give you everything that might do so but you may understand that there is been externally on the surface of your planet. Then you have an outward looking direction. They have an inward looking one. Okay, they are self contained.

**Questioner:** One other question about um there is about the valley of the blue moon which is either in the Himalayas or book called and recently I just read a book called display the value of the moon in that is because those ideas exist in both places. They are again other density realities that touch your world and there are doorways to them. So it wouldn't be you might walk right through it and be you might walk right through it and never know it. So So a person could find the wrong balance. Oh yes. But they would have to have walked through it.

You can now understand that you're proving you all time. All the doorways you walk through, however, are expected by you to create the type of reality that seems to be continuous with the one you just left. It does not have to be that way. And sometimes it is not.

That is a slightly different manifestation that is above all the empty doorways we are talking about. I am actually referring to the idea that you have one type of physical reality and that you can by shifting your perspective actually walk into a parallel physical reality that you believe. Again, it is really a matter of the idea of what you believe of attitude of perception of perspective of the idea you are willing to leave. Again, many times you will find that individuals who do this may not even be consciously aware they have done so. Now you can be conscious of it first and foremost because now the idea that it might be possible is now in your conscious reality. Now what you would do with that idea is you obviously if you didn't it would be otherwise you would have no reason to do so. everything that you do. Thank you.

There is always in a sense a way to a portion of that possibility.

They represent symbolically to us the idea of the manifestation of our blending from physical to non-physical reality. So that we are becoming fourth and fifth density as you are becoming third and fourth.

There is an aspect of it that is sixth in this way. That is the one we relate to. so that we can cause the interaction between our fourth and their fifth to be the fifth which we will occupy.

Can we in this game recognize that fourth density will be a physical manifestation where you see through all the illusions of the third density. You will know yourself to be the greater physical reality. Fifth density in this game will be the experience of yourself in non-physical reality. And there may be many experiences that will seem to be physical but you will know you are the creator. You will be a thought form in a world of thought forms in that sense. And you may have some manifestation of physicalness in the sense of what you choose to create as an experience. But you will know it is not physical in any way, shape or form at all. The idea of the fifth density will be to experience yourself as the dimension that you previously thought you were in as the fifth density. You become the dimension itself. And in this sense, the fifth density will then view itself as many dimensions, a multitude of dimensions. It will view itself as separated into the dimensional aspect. Seventh density in that sense will recognize itself as all the dimensions that were previously experienced separate portions of yourself as a six. Okay.

Now the idea simply was for the experience and the expression of the idea of the crystallization of yourself and the gathering together of the idea of your own transformation, your own springtime, the idea that all the seasonings are contained within you. And as you create yourself to be the seed from which the new you grows in that sense, you will always know that the potential of the totality of all you will ever be is within every season that you are at a moment. There will be a few more minutes of your time frame remaining for the interaction.

That is similar in the sense that it is a dimension unto itself that contains, as you have said, the totality of all that you are. simply the concept of being the past and the future. It is at once your potential and your real ideas and your existence. It is the cultural. It is the Uh do you have a a reality an awareness of the octave above the octave that we are in?

**Bashar:** Only some.

**Questioner:** What concept do you have?

**Bashar:** Oata is what is called as we have mentioned quasi plain reality. It is a different phase of the understanding of the entire seven levels that prize what we share with you to be the idea of our universe. It is another phase, another shift, another recognition, another aspect and focus self. We only recognize at this time that within the next octave, there are also magnitudes of what we call 11. Now, in this way, there is not even in our terminology the idea of a way to explain this as of yet. I do understand that. Thank you. Thank you.

#### 17. MICROBES, VIRUSES, AND THE BODY

**Questioner:** Okay. Our physical body microbes or fungi or viruses extensions of your consciousness. They all are of course there is nothing that is lost. Therefore, we have the option to add and move over and add. If you are not attempting to get rid of them, but acknowledge the purpose you have created them to serve, then they will no longer need to be there. If you are willing to serve the purpose in another way, but service you will one way or another.

When you find out about what their purpose is, your imagination and also by acknowledging that the way you have already manifested it is serving you is showing you something. Accept and acknowledge the light you have created and then you will be able at your own leisure with your own imagination to be able to understand what the purpose is for everything in your life. You will allow yourself in relationship to your physical life to become clearance, clear. You will understand that the tantality of all the symbols you have created. That is one of the ideas of fourth intensity to be able to see through the event for the reasons that they represent and then prefer and choose other ways that the same purposes can be rather than in negative pressure. But only by first acknowledging it that you have created something to serve a purpose. Will you allow yourself to allow that symbol to transform into the

**Questioner:** next in this lifetime I experience being separate from other being located in a point of space and time? Okay. independently of this body and actually watching it for some moment for that that in that moment I was experiencing that you were experiencing that type of my experience of it was really and that that is part of the experience of what you call dead located anywhere in space independently of any particular physical correct and has perception like body correct correct extend our joy at your believer to interact with this way and share of your with us so that we may receive from you the gifts of experiencing the consciousness you have chosen to be so that we may learn all the different ways that all that is has of expressing itself in nature. We thank you for your gift. We thank you for allowing us to share the idea that you are.