---
heading: Part 1
title: "Be Who and What You Are"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1985-12-04
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 49
tags: ['']
---



#### THE TIME OF CONVICTION

if you're not too bored by the idea of knowing that this is the time of conviction, the time of willingness, the time of committing to being who and what you know yourselves to be, the time as you have all co-created it for each and every one of you to express your own idea of who and what you are, your own expression of willingness to allow yourself to know that the purpose, the basic foundational purpose for which you chose to be physical is to be completely who and what you are because each and every one of you is your own facet of all that is.

Now we have discussed this idea with you many times. Recognize that now that we view that your civilization has begun to live within the idea of the transformation, now that you have allowed your vibration to shift into an idea that reflects and represents an awareness of more of yourself, then there is now a sense of more equality between what you have previously held yourselves to be and what you are now viewing or creating your self image to be in the present.

Therefore you have given us and many other consciousnesses that are communicating with your civilization the opportunity to be able to begin to interact with you and your civilization more frequently, more openly, more naturally and in this way to not come to you so to speak as only teachers but as learners, as sharers, as teachers learners combined, for you are also teachers and learners and sharers.

And in this way you can begin by this conviction, by this willingness, to create very consciously instead of un or subconsciously the type of reality that you desire upon your planet without struggle, without strike, without needing to strive to achieve to become, but simply by allowing, not making, not forcing, but allowing yourselves to fully be the expression of the particular unique and creative facet of all that is that each and every one of you individually and collectively represent.


#### CONVERSATION 1: THE CAR LIGHTS AND THE MEANING OF SYMBOLS

**Attendee:** Shing? Yes. Hi uh I have a couple different things I want to discuss. First of all on my way over here tonight the lights on my car have almost gone out and I'm wondering what on another level this really means uh as far as my life goes.

**Bashar:** And you know just now first of all understand that everything in your reality yes is an extension of your consciousness and can form a symbolic representation of an idea that you are willing to explore about yourself. But recognize in this way since it is an extension of your consciousness then your imagination should be able to supply you readily with the idea you are exploring. Simply extend yourself into the idea of the symbol you have created and see what it brings to you if you cease to judge and invalidate what comes to your imagination first without needing to analyze it but simply feel it and act upon it then you can know that you are always giving yourself accurate information to represent the ideas that you are symbolizing and reflecting to yourself in your physical reality.

Now what for you was the first idea that came to your mind without judging?

**Attendee:** What just that I've been lax about taking my car to the garage.

**Bashar:** Oh it can be as simple as that. But in this way the idea of being lax about anything that you have created then reflects the idea that you are exploring laxness within yourself.

Now in this way it also may be that you could in a positive note simply know that you no longer need to depend upon artificial illumination to allow yourself to know that you can move easily through what you previously considered to be abject darkness and now you can know that your senses can extend themselves in ways that will always allow you to know exactly where you are standing, exactly where you are stepping, exactly where you are walking without the idea of outside illumination needing to provide something to support you. That all illumination comes from within and even in the environment of absolute darkness as you would call it there is still the ability for you to know, to sense exactly where you are at any given moment of time as you create time to exist. It can also be a symbol of that idea. What do you think, which one do you prefer?

**Attendee:** Well I prefer that I get home in one piece tonight so I prefer that my senses will take me there without any problem.

**Bashar:** All right very good. Now this is simply to illustrate that a symbol is what you make of it. Recognize that many times you will create a symbol to reflect something which is already in your mind but that does not mean you cannot allow yourself to change the meaning of the symbol even as you recognize it. For you are an unlimited creator and can allow any reflection to transform into positive effect the moment you conceive of it. Follow me?

**Attendee:** Um not too.

**Bashar:** All right simply stated when you give yourself a symbol there is no need first of all to separate the idea of the symbol from you and wonder, wonder. Simply go into the center of your being and know that you can sense what the symbol may mean as you have already created it.

Allow yourself to know that even as you perceive that a symbol exists you can then recognize that like any other symbol in your life it is a reflection simply of the opportunity to create at any moment whatever type of reality you wish. Thus you can use the symbol for whatever you desire to use it for and your desire, the direction and indication of the type of method that you are willing to apply to the symbol will change the symbol into one that reflects the positive attitude you have decided to create.

Thus any symbol that you give yourself is always going to contain the polarity. You can either use it for the negative idea within yourself and that will be true, or for the positive idea in yourself and that will be true because you have ultimate choice and all choices positive and negative are equal.

Therefore in whatever way you decide to filter the symbol through you will be the way in which it serves you. So make your choice. How do you wish to look at the symbol? As you have already said in a positive way, then simply know that you can trust the higher conscious you that allowed you to create that idea and the physiological conscious you that perceived the physiological symbol. You can trust that they are working in tandem to give you symbols and messengers and messages that always serve you and do not interrupt you because you cannot be interrupted.

Also it may...

**Attendee:** I've been feeling lately that I'm searching so and I'm looking so for answers and the more I search and more I come here and the more I find out the more confused I get about everything.

**Bashar:** All right now on one level that is very good and very creative because the idea you call confusion to us is not negative. It is fusion with the idea of more possibilities. You are unlocking and disorienting yourself from the reality you have for so long allowed to be your habitual ritual and now you are confused because you are unlocking and disorienting yourself. This means you are opening up the possibility to reorient onto something that represents more of what you are.

Do not let depression and confusion be negative. Confusion in this way is simply the recognition of more of yourself and depression is simply a meditation where you go to the center of yourself to find the answers that you know do not exist outside because there is no outside. And as long as you continue to search outside you will always allow yourself to feel that you are stumbling in the dark. You follow me?

Therefore if the lights on the outside have gone out turn on the one within.

**Attendee:** Okay.

That um as we were talking last week and you again said now about our purposes which I had stated last week um I'm doing a performance and I need to have some help with it and I brought some cards tonight and I would just like to put them out if that's all right with everyone and if anyone's interested in participating in a performance which has to do with spiritual involvement I would appreciate your help.

**Bashar:** Very good for being bold enough to have the conviction to know that you can rely on the sources of information and interaction that are available to you upon your own planet within your own civilization. Very good thank you for sharing.

**Attendee:** Thank you.

#### CONVERSATION 2: UNSATISFACTORY ANSWERS, THIRD TO FOURTH DENSITY, AND THE AQUAMARINE

**Attendee:** Yes. Oh me? Yes I have a several things. One of them is last Wednesday uh I made some attempt at sharing what I...

**Bashar:** I knew you would say that. Did you not share? Well everything you do is a sharing.

**Attendee:** I know, I know. All right what I was willing to do and um I felt that do you remember that?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Attendee:** Okay I felt that that your your responses were quite unsatisfactory.

**Bashar:** Oh thank you. What responses would you rather have created for yourself?

**Attendee:** Yes well no that's what I'm getting at I'll tell you in a minute. Um I realized my reaction and I thought that's an interesting reaction why and then what I noticed from the reaction I had I became aware that the purpose of the interchange was totally different than the topic of the interchange.

**Bashar:** Nice.

**Attendee:** I was wonder do you know are you aware of that?

**Bashar:** Keep going.

**Attendee:** Well I'd like you to know I'd like to know what your perception was. In other words I created to perceive your answers to be unsatisfactory because of something I needed.

**Bashar:** Understand that what we are doing here is reflecting something to you in the moment of the interchange is the most accurate reflection. Now when you continue to change you are going to always then understand that you're going to be creating new answers but when you go searching for the you you used to be, then answers that were given to that you are not going to be satisfactory to the new you you are willing to be.

**Attendee:** Uh yeah I don't think that was it actually. The way I perceived it is I became a little angry because I felt your responses were very very general and what I expected was some very specific inputs and what difference does it make what you expect.

**Bashar:** Oh I know I realized that...

**Attendee:** And then when I felt myself getting angry I thought that's an alignment.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Attendee:** So what am I aligning to?

**Bashar:** Well and what I realized was...

**Attendee:** Um that I had begun to make a god out of you.

**Bashar:** Thank you. No thank you I don't like it either. Thank you.

**Attendee:** And so I created a situation for myself in which I had to change my perspective.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Attendee:** And it didn't change my feelings about being here which I always think is exciting. All right but it did change my perspective about it.

**Bashar:** Oh thank you.

**Attendee:** And so I was wondering if at the time were you aware of it or not?

**Bashar:** Only in the sense that we know that one whatever it is we are reflecting to you we trust will always wind up being of service to you in whatever way you care to use it. Not that the specifics have to be known to me.

**Attendee:** Okay but I thank you for that anyway.

**Bashar:** We will thank you for being willing to co-create that idea.

**Attendee:** I thought it was quite interesting because I never had such a very immediate realization of what was going on for me. Thank you for doing that. So anyway uh the other thing that I'd like some clarification about is you we are in the transformational life going from third to fourth now going into fourth is that a 100% certainty?

**Bashar:** Going into fourth density is it a 100% certainty for you?

**Attendee:** Yes.

**Bashar:** For me then that is all you need to know.

**Attendee:** That is all you need to know.

**Bashar:** Well you understand that you are your own universe. I do understand that which means you are also your own planet Earth. Which means that if you are 100% certain that that is where you are going then you will see and live within the planet Earth that exists on that level and live with all of the individuals that also already exist on that level.

**Attendee:** Okay.

**Bashar:** Therefore you will be surrounded by a population you are already there yourself and all those other individuals will then when they choose to understand that they simply have to be 100% the idea that they want to be when they arrive in the idea of themselves as fourth density then they will also see the you that already exists in fourth density.

**Attendee:** Oh okay is that but that's a different concept than the concept of the blending no with your civilization?

**Bashar:** No it's not. Understand everything is its own idea and every idea is a reality. Every idea is a reality unto itself. Okay.

Therefore any blending that you are creating within yourself that contains within the definition of that reality you are willing to be the idea of blending with other civilizations will then be a part of that overall idea. It is like a formula like a mathematical equation. All right.

**Attendee:** But but there all right so I am alone in my universe but there are lots of other people who are doing the same thing.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Attendee:** So from what you said it's I thought that we can go into the fourth density but we could go in fourth density and not necessarily work towards the blending of the civilizations immediately.

**Bashar:** You do not have to right but you know but is that your choice?

**Attendee:** It's not my choice. I'm asking for in general for the planet uh no my choice you are in general I understand that working along those lines.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Attendee:** Okay but understand our point in general doesn't matter. You will wind up in whatever vibratory dimension that represents the fourth density you are willing to be.

**Bashar:** But you have asked or suggested to us that we talk to our governments become our governments and so on and so forth.

**Attendee:** Yes and so we are involving others so I'm not the only one that matters.

**Bashar:** Understand that you are not involving anyone who does not vibrate nor exist in the same reality.

**Attendee:** Okay.

**Bashar:** You will not find those that do not exist in the same reality. The ones you will find will be the ones that exist in the fourth density idea you are willing to be. And you never involve anyone against their agreement to be involved.

**Attendee:** No but I interact with them in other ways.

**Bashar:** But understand you only interact with those that are of the same vibration.

**Attendee:** So what are you worried about?

**Bashar:** I'm not worried. I'm just trying to I am in the process of understanding the various concepts the involvement of various people.

**Attendee:** All right and what's happening all right but and I will use that word this time. Recognize that what you at least to us as we perceive what you are saying what you are doing is attempting to in a sense understand the reality you are by coming to terms with the outside illusion rather than simply coming to terms with what you know yourself to be and then knowing that your reality will reflect you.

**Attendee:** Okay I'll think about I mean I'll do you understand what I said at some level?

**Bashar:** I do and I've understood that for a long time and at another level I don't and I just don't agree with you because I what is it specifically that you do not agree with?

**Attendee:** Well I interact with people who are obviously their density all the time.

**Bashar:** You are on the same level then or you would not be able to interact with them.

**Attendee:** Okay so but is there anything isn't there anything that I can do to uh suggest to them or?

**Bashar:** You can suggest everything, anything, that does not mean they have to take it.

**Attendee:** No they don't but but don't I as a human being living here on Earth have some kind of responsibility towards my...

**Bashar:** Have a responsibility to everyone to be completely who you are. You do not have a responsibility for anyone, not for anyone but yeah to towards myself then understand responsibility to everyone is being who you are then they will know who they are dealing with.

**Attendee:** Okay.

**Bashar:** Wonderful wonderful. You follow me?

**Attendee:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Okay does that clarify the idea?

**Attendee:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Your interaction is always only going to be a suggestion.

**Attendee:** Oh I realize that well then but I do have I do feel I have to make those suggestions.

**Bashar:** I have well then make them but I do well but do not expect anyone to listen.

**Attendee:** I don't either.

**Bashar:** All right then be true to yourself and make the suggestions if you know you are being true to yourself you will always attract the audience that will have attracted you to them who want to hear the suggestions or they would not be there no matter what reason they want to hear the suggestions they want to hear them or they would not be there whether they use the suggestion positively negatively or not at all.

**Attendee:** Okay I have a personal question. All right uh is aquamarine the gemstone does that have any significance for me now?

**Bashar:** Is it not in a sense obvious since you asked? What is the significance you tell me?

**Attendee:** I don't know. I'll tell you what happened. All right I have an aquamarine pendant yes that I hadn't worn in a long time and I decided to wear yesterday and as I put it on I felt that something was opening up inside of me.

**Bashar:** All right and that that things were accelerated?

**Attendee:** All right is that not symbol enough? Is that not significance enough?

**Bashar:** But why aquamarine?

**Attendee:** But why but why but why why not you tell me. I don't know perhaps you think it is pretty.

**Bashar:** Well you tell other people why why can't you tell me?

**Attendee:** Understand that the idea of when we involve ourselves in what you call specific discussions with other individuals will reflect their willingness to discuss on equal terms. Uhhuh.

Now the idea which you already know about the idea you call crystal and forms color gems and so forth will obviously be that different vibrations carry different reflections of different ideas and you can understand that the blue tones will reflect to some degree the idea in a generalized mass conscious sense of spirituality.

**Attendee:** Well no I see I haven't heard too much about crystals yet I know this on some tapes.

**Bashar:** Now but understand that all you needed to do was relate to the spiritualized feeling it was giving you to know that that is what that color and stone represents.

In other words once again the answer is right there in the feeling in the experience itself rather than saying well okay here's this experience now let me go looking out here somewhere for the answer as to what that all means when the experience in and of itself is the answer. How do you feel?

**Attendee:** It feels more accelerated more spiritual more open.

**Bashar:** All right then that is the idea that you have imparted to the vibration of the aquamarine acceleration, spiritual acceleration. You follow me?

**Attendee:** Yeah I had never felt it before.

**Bashar:** And that does not mean that you cannot know what it is when it happens. Once again it is simply a three dimensional third density habitual ritual to assume that just because you say well that never happened before that that has anything at all to do with the fact that you can now know what it is now that it has happened. The two ideas are separate. That has never happened before and I now know what it is in the present are two separate ideas and one does not control the other.

**Attendee:** What you seem to be implying is that any learning we have done is meaningless?

**Bashar:** That is not what I am implying that is what you are inferring.

**Attendee:** Okay it sounds like it.

**Bashar:** Understand that it is both meaningless and completely meaningful. In other words it is simply this any symbol is as valid as you create it to be period.

**Attendee:** Okay I'm talking in general you have said that's the second time you told me what you were before doesn't mean anything about what you are now and I agree with that but then define your concept of learning because the idea on your planet at this time of learning is actually unlearning.

**Bashar:** Well it's finding out about our environment and what works in the environment and how we can interact with people and...

**Attendee:** All right but understand still what has that got to do with the idea of learning being meaningless? What we said in this way simply we are saying every symbol that you create is valid is your way your methodology of learning of teaching of sharing and in this way you are going to learn in general the idea through your own unique approach.

**Attendee:** That seems to be true for learning in the fourth density but learning in the third density seems to be different.

**Bashar:** Well where are you third or fourth?

**Attendee:** Both.

**Bashar:** All right then you will give yourself a half half reality. When you decide whether or not you are in third or fourth then you will by acting like it give yourself the opportunity to experience what it is like.

Understand that many individuals on your planet who function through their higher consciousness that fourth density self have methods of so-called learning that in no way shape or form are acceptable to your third density reality.

**Attendee:** Oh I understand that.

**Bashar:** Then what difference does it make how learning is done? What we are saying is not so much the idea that learning in and of itself is meaningless but because every method of learning is meaningful then no one method carries more meaning than any other method. It is not that they are meaning less it is that they are meaning equal.

**Attendee:** So basically what you're objecting to and that's in other things too is when we express ourselves in terms of third density thinking and third density learning then you keep yourself in third density.

**Bashar:** I'm not objecting to the fact that you may want to do that but that is what you are doing when you express yourself in that way.

**Attendee:** Okay because you are still in this way creating the idea of the habit that was formed in third density.

**Bashar:** Right such as we already gave the example of this never happened before. Exactly usually in third density that means I cannot therefore make sense of it now whereas a fourth density being will know that that has never happened before has nothing to do with the present and in the present the experience in and of itself is the answer and you can simply go on living knowing that every idea is fully there and fully complete within the experience itself and that all will be unfolded and revealed in the physical reality in due course of time because you will experience everything you chose to experience in this physical life.

**Attendee:** Yeah I understand that.

**Bashar:** All right then simply keep it simple.

**Attendee:** Okay thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

#### CONVERSATION 3: FALLING IN LOVE AND UNCONDITIONAL LOVE

**Attendee:** Bash uh I have uh sharing first in the form of a statement then in the form of a question. Uh I realized that uh the idea of learning to love someone is actually the concept of discovering that you already do. And uh the question I have is when we fall in love there's a it feels like there's a difference. Guys there are people that I love dearly but then I can fall in love and it seems to be a difference in the vibration or the excitement. Would you be willing to give me a technical explanation of what the difference is?

**Bashar:** I will keep it very simple. Okay that particular idea that you are referring to as you call falling in love is the expression of unconditional love both for the other individual and for yourself.

**Attendee:** Okay I understand that however I experience unconditional love with those that I not quote falling in love with.

**Bashar:** Not really. Understand we are not saying it is necessarily negative but because of the nature of your specific vibrational reality of third density that is still existent upon your planet in your civilization you are making conditions all the time defining all the other individuals and your relationship to them. When you feel the idea of falling in love with a particular individual that is what it feels like to experience unconditional love and you can if you really experience and express unconditional love with everyone would find yourself to be completely falling in love with everyone.

Unconditional love is not the idea of placing conditions or definitions to the extent that many individuals do to define the relationship between them and them. When you fall in love you are more likely to remove all definitions and simply function as one. That person becomes you, you become them because you remove all ideas of separation between the two consciousnesses even though you recognize in the idea of validation that they are another individual you are still recognizing their individuality unconditionally and that is what being in love is all about.

**Attendee:** Okay if I may play the devil's advocate for a moment.

**Bashar:** Oh by all means.

**Attendee:** Uh I have people who I love dearly as I said who I feel a true excitement about the way I love them yes but it's not of a romantic or sexual nature in any way. All right truly an excitement about it. I would say that I'm in love with them.

**Bashar:** You are in a sense yes in love according to the definition that is required for this particular expression in third density right. But the understanding still is that what you are feeling by being in love is the fourth density definition of unconditional love.

**Attendee:** Okay I still claim that these people that I feel excitement about loving and in a sense feel in love with I mean there's levels of emotion related to this as I am entering my transformation these emotions are stronger and stronger so what I would have felt as unconditional love for a friend now would have been madly in love in the past if you understand.

**Bashar:** Yes. Okay all relative. Yes what I'm saying yes true.

**Attendee:** What I'm saying though is these people that I feel strong love for truly is unconditional love.

**Bashar:** No well there there's where I disagree. Understand this even if there is only one condition it is still conditional.

**Attendee:** But there is no condition.

**Bashar:** You have already said that there is.

**Attendee:** What?

**Bashar:** Sexual.

**Attendee:** I see your point.

**Bashar:** Now recognize this one moment let me finish the statement. Recognize that we recognize the reasons for why there are different manifestations of different and similar gender love and interaction upon your planet but it is all because of conditional love that the situation exists to begin with.

**Attendee:** I see your point however um just because even if one does have unconditional love for someone doesn't mean that they have to have sex with them.

**Bashar:** No certainly you do not have sex with everyone on your planet.

**Attendee:** No so that doesn't mean that there's conditioned on your love for everyone on the planet or something.

**Bashar:** In a sense yes.

**Attendee:** Okay I'll accept in a sense.

**Bashar:** The idea is not that it is in an overall sense so to speak a negative thing within the society in that way nor within the interrelationships and the interactions but simply by the technical definition of the term the way your society functions and to some degree the way our society functions because we are in an overall specific sense still differentiating between the ideas of what we prefer and do not it makes literally the love conditional whereas in the nonphysical state it is completely unconditional. As long as there is a physiological state to some degree it is conditional. That is all we are defining. It is completely unconditional when you are completely non-physical because then you can interact with every other consciousness without regard to the idea of preference. The idea of preference does not need to exist in the non-physical state in that way because everything is completely equal.

Therefore not in a negative sense but as long as there is physical reality to some degree the idea of even the physical reality being in existence itself is the product of some conditions within the idea of the love that makes creation.

**Attendee:** Yeah because those condition then define the differentiation between this reality and some other reality or even this relationship and some other relationship.

**Bashar:** That is the type of condition we are saying. We are not saying it is in and of itself a negative idea.

**Attendee:** Okay again the devil's advocate um sometimes well as we have explored negative manifestation in the past we would fall in love and the love was not all that unconditional either there'd be a lot of conditions placed upon the love yet the feeling of usually after the initial moment of unconditional love.

**Bashar:** Yeah therefore simply recognize that all we are referring to in answering your question is that specific moment which may or may not stretch over a long or short period of time in which there are truly as few conditions as can possibly exist in the physical reality and more reflection of the non-physical. It may only last a second but for that second what you are recognizing is the unconditional love of the higher self and channeling it through you as best as can be interpreted in physical reality.

Now after that you may if you start to see more and more and more conditions still retain or recreate some form of memory of the initial unconditionality but it is becoming less and less and less unconditional.

Because many times the purpose for the relationship will insist upon the discovery of the different conditions so that you can make a differentiation as to the purpose of that relationship. But it was the unconditional love that you initially felt that was the purpose for bringing you together.

You see many times individuals will create a situation and attract to themselves a relationship for purposes that they may somewhere down the road because they are judging not like but they know from their higher conscious self that they do want that relationship because it does serve their purpose even if the physiological ego later on may not like it. So the unconditional love is used to initiate the relationship because it comes from the higher consciousness purpose. Then as you recognize the purposes of the relationships it then generates more or less to varying degrees that conditions of conditionality so as to define the purpose that the unconditional love attracted the relationship for.

That is one of the ideas of how the homogeneousness of your higher self translates through the prism of your personality and differentiates into the spectrum of conditionality which defines physical reality and that is the reason for why you have created it to experience yourself in that way. But is that unconditional love that spark that lets you know that all of these initiations are all being activated by the higher consciousness?

**Attendee:** Does that define the idea?

**Bashar:** Yes it does.

**Attendee:** And I got to tell you that um quote falling in love unquote and knowingly consciously not placing any conditions upon the love or the lover or any requirements uh giving that person allowing that person total total freedom in your own reality to do whatever they choose be it positive negative or whatever is a very wild experience.

**Bashar:** Oh yeah.

**Attendee:** My experience in the past but you know you fall in love you put conditions on the other person you put requirements and they can't do this and you can't do that and it degenerates but when you just knowingly allow it to be totally free it is fabulous.

**Bashar:** Then you are resonating in physical reality in congruency with the idea and the origin of the purpose of the relationship that was initiated from the higher consciousness. You are paralleling yourself.

**Attendee:** That's right and giving yourself the feeling and the ability to feel and to sense the vibration of congruency with your higher consciousness and physical consciousness.

**Bashar:** Mhm and in addition to that what it means is that I consciously know the purposes of the relationship the purposes that was created and purposes that we create as we go along.

**Bashar:** Yes it's wild yes for then you are privy to communication with your higher consciousness.

**Attendee:** Right right totally in line with it.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

**Attendee:** Thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

#### CONVERSATION 4: CHANNELING AND DENSITIES

**Attendee:** Shooting yes how are you perfect how are you I'm well last week at uh as I worked at my desk I had a sense of um I had a sense of your voice communicating with me um I copied down this communication and I'd like to have a little I'd like to have your comments on it. Was there something going on?

**Bashar:** There is always something going on. Now understand that more and more individuals in your society have said recently well Bashar I know you were talking to me the other night. You are not the only one. Now recognize this what you are all tapping into is what we have always told you is present. Our overall energy being sent to you to utilize in whatever way you wish to form whatever connections with it to reflect to yourself that you wish to form.

You are simply recognizing the vibration because you are willing to take advantage of it and you are translating it for yourself in whatever way you wish to to form a symbol you can relate to. It is not so much that I am specifically floating down and saying hey but it is that we are radiating as a civilization the particular vibration that you are channeling into that idea that you hear speaking because when you tap into it it will speak to you as we would speak to you because it is of our vibration but because you are then connecting to it and becoming equal to it you are creating it to speak to yourself as we would speak to you because you are then also of that vibration and therefore in a sense of our civilization for that moment and that is why through that particular exercise and ability that you have just done and described that we have always said to you that we refer to your civilization in the way that we consider ourselves to be your future selves because you are like us and like the Sirius civilization a part of the same overall triad consciousness and you have the ability to contain those bands of frequency to utilize them to utilize our band to talk to yourself and be equal to that idea. You follow me?

**Attendee:** Uh.

**Bashar:** As long as you are leading yourself you will not get lost.[Music]

**Attendee:** Thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Yes.

**Attendee:** I'd like to explain the concept of densities and what we've been talking about third and fourth what first second fifth and six thank you.

**Bashar:** Now first of all recognize that every density level will not be a density that excludes the ones previously but contains the ones previously and that is one of the definitions the idea that you are becoming more aware of more of yourself.

Now what you call fourth density that what you are moving into will be in your terms for all quote unquote practical intents and purposes as you understand physicality fourth density will be the last density level in which you will experience direct the idea as you understand now of physical reality. Fifth sixth and seventh density are in your terms basically non-physical.

In this way first and second will reflect through the symbology of what you call first being the idea of mineral consciousness, second animal and plant consciousness, the idea of the knowingness in basic form in linear sense in point sense and then your third density consciousness in volumetric sense of the expansion of mentality and self-awareness and then fourth density the idea of volumetric within and in that way the sense of knowingness that contains all the other three and the fifth in this way the idea of the expansiveness within that allows you to begin to sense yourself as not existing within a space but actually existing as the space and sixth density in this way will be the inclusion of many such ideas of spaces the idea of the true aspect of the multi-dimensional self but still perceiving that you are a compilation of existing within this idea and then seventh will be again existing as the multi-dimensional idea in and of itself with no separation. Beyond that are different magnitudes different octaves of ideas and this is something that our civilization is also still exploring.

**Attendee:** See so a first density is mineral will the mineral is the symbol for that idea.

**Bashar:** Now there have been in your terms consciousnesses which have existed in that density that you would not look at and say well that is a mineral but it is representative of the limitation in the mental sense of that particular consciousness as to how it sees its universe. It is a very fixated point idea whereas animal is very in this way linear idea and what you call your third density is very volumetric.

**Attendee:** Uh I also have a question about probabilities.

**Bashar:** One more thing in fact we think will clarify to some idea the idea of self-awareness that first appeared in what you call first expressed itself in what you call third density. Understand that when you have a volumetric reality that is the first density level that has the ability to look back at itself whereas a line when turning around cannot see all the way down the line and a point has no reference point outside of itself to look at volumetric is the first idea that can look back upon itself and hence third density being the level of separation. Now fourth density has the ability to see through the illusion.

Proceed.

#### CONVERSATION 5: PARALLEL REALITIES AND FREQUENCIES

**Attendee:** Uh probabilities um one time you mentioned another reality on Earth what we perceive parallel universe yes question about what did you explain that or...

**Bashar:** Well simply there are other existences that consider themselves to be just as physical as you do and it is extensions of your whole soul consciousness just like it projects many lives in this universal time track it projects many lives in other universal time tracks that are parallel and not perceived between the other in the idea as it can be described of the idea of flickering on and off.

Your physical universe is what your scientists called discontinuous. That is it exists in on off moments. You follow me? Yes flickering on off on off on off. In between what you consider to be your moments of reality which flicker by so fast as you do not think they are flickering exist all the other possibilities. They take turns existing in the same space so to speak.

**Attendee:** So they're vibrating at a different frequency?

**Bashar:** Yes it is just different vibration in the same way that you see visible light by definition and do not see invisible light. It is vibrating at a different frequency and you pass right through each other and never know. You coexist in what to each other are very real realities.

**Attendee:** And the frequency you're existing if you what is existing on Earth in that frequency?

**Bashar:** Well one will be your future world your future beings that are co-creating equally with us approximately let us say in a very fluid sense of interaction well can be as little as 50 years to 100 years stretching to 300 years from now. We already perceive that that civilization from 50 years from now to 300 years from now is exactly expressing itself in many of the same ways we are now and thus we interact with them equally encouraging.

**Attendee:** One last question.

**Bashar:** Now understand there is no need for the idea of being encouraging in the hopeful sense simply because that reality exists whether you choose to be a part of it or not. Certainly you can choose to be a part of it and then you will be in it. There is no need for the idea of encouragement except the encouragement to take the conviction to choose that reality if that is what you want.

**Attendee:** Thank you.

#### CONVERSATION 6: NATURE SPIRITS AND THE MASS CONSCIOUSNESS GOD

**Bashar:** Thank you. My last question is about uh entities or uh nature spirits uh they've been called very...

**Attendee:** All right understand that they do more or less represent real consciousness but also what you are perceiving them to be cloaked as is a representation of what is called archetypal consciousness that is your mass consciousness your entire civilization the one being that you all are in a sense has a subconscious reality just as the individuals in it do.

That subconscious reality just like your subconscious reality from the individual can create symbolic terms that you can relate to it through those symbolic clothings will be what you call the mythological beings that come out of it. You as a god are projecting a certain symbolic idea to the individuals within yourself by pushing through your subconscious a representative symbol that they can relate to one on one but which is still reflective of the idea of the godhood that it came from and hence will always seem to be a little bit well off kilter from what you consider to be normal. It will be more well spirit like wavy like not quite so substantial hither thither yawn able to pop in pop out represent itself in many different ways that reflect the different ideas that you are communicating to that portion of the mass consciousness for you. Follow me?

**Attendee:** Uh yes think it is drawing from a stream the stream that represents the ability of the god that you are to physicalize to some extent some of the subconscious imaginings within the god that you are to the individual fragments within itself.

**Bashar:** There are certain places of the Earth where like Thorn for example where that's more likely to happen than other places.

**Attendee:** In this sense it will depend upon many things one of which will be the nature of the consciousness in any particular area and understand that the nature of the consciousness many times will find themselves attracted to certain areas because the energy levels the vortexes of energy in those areas will reflect an ability to interact as a free zone an open interdimensional doorway through which they can tap into that subconscious stream more readily and thus it all serves to reinforce itself from the idea of who they are where they are and what it is they think they are all about.

**Attendee:** A question all the consciousness on this planet as one being yes as a part of all that is is not all that is one being of course.

**Bashar:** But understand that since it has differentiated itself into units there are also the ideas of groupings of units that form whole beings within the whole being on an infinite number of levels. So there are whole beings within my whole beings.

**Attendee:** Yes and so on in all directions.

**Bashar:** This is what we mean by the fact that you are a multi-dimensional creator.

**Attendee:** Is the triad consciousness between us you and Sirius also one?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Attendee:** Can you channel uh to the parallel universes that exist in our off period or do you?

**Bashar:** Yes do you channel with them sometimes? Yes you can interact sometimes beings from different civilizations as they have also in your civilization from time to time actually make passage from one to another and are not seen any longer on your planet.

**Attendee:** But you yourself are channeling to these other beings that are parallel to us.

**Bashar:** In a sense yes.

#### CONVERSATION 7: GUILT, LOVE, AND CHOOSING YOUR REALITY

**Attendee:** Okay yes um I've been struggling with this question and I then perhaps that will be an allowance to finally answer it for yourself.

**Bashar:** That's true that's true I go back and forth between allowing myself to feel very sad.

**Attendee:** Oh oh oh now do not condemn yourself for that idea for what you are doing is allowing yourself to become the answer for crying just like laughing is centering because you are releasing the idea of your negativity. Crying is centering coming from a negative point of view. Laughing is centering coming from a positive point of view. Both of them get you in the center and you are now by releasing this as you express yourself lovingly willing to become the answer that you are seeking so you do not have to seek it anymore. So please continue. There is no need to excuse what you are doing it is a very loving creative act.

**Attendee:** Thank you. I go back and forth between allowing myself and go back and forth to feel anxiety. All right without feeling love. All right in my family situation the way I grew up was that they taught me to feel guilty about feeling myself and feeling myself feeling love.

**Bashar:** Yes and I we get to a peaceful place.

**Attendee:** All right now you have already said that you are aware that you learned this idea through your family so therefore the idea of why you are doing it basically is conscious.

**Attendee:** Yes yes.

**Bashar:** Well if the idea of why you are doing it is conscious why are you assuming that there is something else beyond just knowing that that needs to be done to allow you to choose something else? You see knowing that in and of itself is the ability to change it because you are aware of what you are doing and why.

**Attendee:** I have I understand what you're saying.

**Bashar:** All right now how about this. The times that you allow yourself to feel love how does that feel?

**Attendee:** Wonderful.

**Bashar:** All right now that being that you is always you.

**Attendee:** Yes yes.

**Bashar:** The other being is also always you.

**Attendee:** Yes yes.

**Bashar:** All right allow yourself to let those two beings the one expressing the love and the one expressing guilt which is the true opposite of love not hate. Guilt is the true opposite of love.

Let those two polarized beings be equal since you will always be both of them. You will never be able to rid yourself of anything because there is nowhere to rid yourself of anything to. Since you will always contain both of those aspects then allow yourself to know that both of those aspects exist because there is the potential that at any given time one or the other of them will serve a purpose for you.

That is the only reason why all of these differentiated aspects in your personality exist because they are all different types of messengers that give you different types of messages so that from any direction you could possibly go in there will always be a reflection back to you of what it is you are and what you think of yourself and where you stand with regard to who and what you are willing to be.

Therefore knowing that all of your personality traits the loving one and the guilty one all serve in their own good time a purpose allow them all to be equal kinds of messengers. Do not make it that feeling love is more important than feeling guilt. It may be something you prefer and something you enjoy whereas you may not prefer nor enjoy the guilt but the love the ability to feel love is not more important than the ability to feel guilt since there are times when the idea of the guilt has served a purpose if only to get you to realize that you prefer to feel love which may be the only reason for why you are creating it but you are not taking the final step to realize that that might be plain and simply the only reason why you have assumed that the guilt needs to go on.

Okay allow yourself to know you have been served by yourself and now in allowing the guilt and the love to be equal well then when everything is equal a choice is easy because you do not have to reach for what you want nor bend for what you want nor throw away what you don't want. It is all right here and it is all equal so it is very easy well this is what I prefer this I do not prefer it is all right here and always with me so that should I decide to explore something that requires the ability to feel guilt that will also be right within my grasp because as a total higher consciousness being the idea of experiencing love or guilt is all the same. It is all a tool to understand yourself through this particular reality and to the higher consciousness self love guilt all right well it is all the same.

Now it is left up to you as a physical personality however to have the free will to choose the methodology of what the higher methodology of what the higher consciousness wants to explore as a general concept.

**Attendee:** Can you repeat that concept?

**Bashar:** All right it is up to you as a physiological consciousness to choose the methodology by which you will explore what the higher consciousness wishes to explore about itself. In other words the free will of the higher consciousness chooses the overall generalized ideas or events that you will explore let us say the idea of separation or the idea of separation in love so to speak.

Now it is up to you to choose with your physical free will the methodologies by which you will explore what the higher consciousness wants to explore. So you can explore that idea through a positive idea you can explore it through a negative idea. Both ideas will be teaching the higher consciousness something for everything to the higher consciousness is valid and a learning experience. But you can still prefer to choose the positive way which will then shorten the time it takes to experience that and allow you to get on with another experience. Separation choosing limitation and negativity creates separation and stretches out and creates more time. So the idea of choosing the negative is what creates the idea you call a vicious cycle or a rut because are constantly creating loops of time by choosing the method of separation because you do not recognize that you are on track and so you do not allow yourself to act like you are.

Follow me now will I have simplified the idea for you to the point where you can allow yourself to know that there are no interruptions in your life and everything that you experience is a product of your choice but it is still up to you to choose what methodology in which you wish to experience any overall idea. How do you feel?

**Attendee:** Very good.

**Bashar:** Now recognize this as well if at any time you know you can conceive of a you that knows that it prefers to always experience the idea of the love then know that that you is always there and can always be the present you or you would not be able to conceive of it. It is you if you are willing to simply be that you and act like it and know that every idea in your reality is equal to every other idea and so it will be easy to choose among them.

**Attendee:** Thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

#### CONVERSATION 8: PHYSICS - UNIFIED FIELD, TEMPLATE, AND UNCERTAINTY

**Attendee:** You could you clarify something you said earlier about the flickering of the universe on and off of different frequencies?

**Bashar:** As you understand the idea of your physical universe you will understand that it is composed out of what the idea you call energy a homogeneous field. Different variations in the vibration of this field create what you perceive to be the space time and physical objects that occupy it.

Therefore recognize that the methodology that you have created in order to create a multitude of universes is to exist within a particular vibration that interlocks in between all the other vibrations so that you can experience your own uniqueness without in this way overlapping into another universe.

**Attendee:** Because earlier you said that it was a difference in frequency now if there's a difference in frequency there would have to overlap at the same time you really mean a difference in phase same frequency out of phase.

**Bashar:** In a sense yes although there are also differences in frequencies which are alternate dimensions of experience.

**Attendee:** Another question about physics that we talk about on this planet a lot you know that we about the four basic forces in nature on this planet in Einstein.

**Bashar:** Now you already know if you will discover upon your planet that even your physicists have gotten it down to two they recognize that they have what is called quantum chromodynamics and in this way this reflects a unification of what you call the electromagnetic force the strong force and the weak force. The only one they have yet to understand is gravity.

When they allow themselves to begin to include consciousness into the equation they will have their unified field and they are on the very doorstep of understanding that.

**Attendee:** They just discovered the fifth power or something the idea of consciousness and what we call the template universe was just in the paper the other day it's kind of anational for what you're talking.

**Bashar:** Very yeah they calling it a fifth force. They are simply beginning to understand that what they have long considered to be gravity is not a force it is a reflection of the interaction of the vibrational matrix taking the pattern of the template which is non-physical. When they understand there exists a template upon which the foundation of your physical reality is constructed they will know how to read the maps.

**Attendee:** Have question I like this planet I like my life here I very good of nuclear war I'm just wondering whether I will be able to live out my stay on this planet.

**Bashar:** Our perception of your civilization at this time is that you have already chosen to not have that idea.

Now understand that one of the reasons for why you are seeing in your terms an escalation of personal violence is because you now know it is safe to experience all these ideas because they will not lead to nuclear annihilation. That is why they have increased so that you can live them all out so that by the time you all consciously agree to go into fourth density idea you will know beyond shadow of a doubt that you have done it all with regard to negativity.

**Attendee:** The temper you is that related to the machine or a device that Steve Myers is building?

**Bashar:** It is reflective to some degree of what I will call the crystallin structure of the template. Since the crystallin structure of the template is to 3-sided pyramids base to base point up and point down. This one figure with six faces and five points will be the 11 dimensioned universe and contain within it all aspects that your physicists are beginning to understand about the fundamentals of how your physical reality is created from non-physicality. That one symbol is the equation that bridges your physical universe with the non-physical universe.

**Attendee:** What did you explain the symbol again?

**Bashar:** Two three-sided pyramids base to base sharing a common equilateral triangle therefore one apex is up one apex is down there are three points around the middle and there is a central point from top to bottom point that passes through the plane in the middle.

Now understand that the three points round the middle are what you may refer to as the x y and z ideas of your volumetric third density reality and the negative x negative y negative z of the anti-universe in that way the polarity expressed. The top apex is positive time the bottom apex negative time. Therefore in this one structure you have both positive and negative time and positive and negative space.

Now recognize that the nature of this structure is why your scientist are you familiar with what is called in your civilization the uncertainty principle?

**Attendee:** No I'm not.

**Bashar:** Understand that when scientists on your civilization discovered that they could begin to look into what they call the nuclear reality there were movements that did not act in what they consider to be natural or normal ways any longer. Below a certain threshold things do not have to act in the way that you think they have to act to follow certain laws that you have always thought to be very strict.

One of the things they discovered because of this random activity is that you cannot know both the position and the momentum of something simultaneously. For to take a measurement of something that small is to cause a change in the interaction and if you are measuring its position you can get its precision precisely but you will not understand its momentum because the addition of the energy changes the momentum the addition of the energy of the measurement. If you wish to know its momentum precisely you can never know its position for if you try to fixate on it you will stop the momentum and have nothing to measure.

Therefore this is a result also that can be defined by this particular equation or this template crystallin structure. Understand if you will just regard for a moment one particular three-sided pyramid you have x y z on the base that represents the idea of the coordinates of physical space. Yes. You have the apex which represents the time in which all the physical coordinates are subject to and are related to and inseparable from.

Now understand that the nature of your dimensionality makes it such that you can only take a measurement off of what you consider to be any one face of this pyramid base or three sides at any one time. If you take a measurement off of the base well then you will include the x y and z and you will have the total measurement of the space but you will have no measurement of the time or momentum. If you take a measurement out of any one side you will have total time and any two coordinates but no complete sense of position. You follow me?

**Attendee:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Therefore this is what the result is and why you have discovered this idea you call the uncertainty principle. You cannot in this way allow yourself to know in the physical universe both space that is position and time that is momentum simultaneously with regard to what any particular aspect is liable to do.

This was in your terms the qualm with your Einstein in this way in that your modern quantum physicists were saying that there is no predictability on quantum level whereas Einstein believed that there was. Now in a sense both are correct for in this way what Einstein sensed was the template and your physicists have yet to discover this but when they do they will understand that it is only in the physical universe that the uncertainty exists and if they understand that this uncertainty is the product of the shape of the template but understand that the template is in and of itself complete to begin with then knowing that completeness in a non-physical universe will let them know that everything can be in the non-physical universe certain whereas in the physical universe only a portion of the template at any one time is represented and thus things can be uncertain.

Then you have the idea of randomness that exists within your physical reality so that you can create in that way and have free will. Therefore just as by analogy the idea of your atoms have individual randomness which cannot be predicted but the total mass of the atoms have a certain predictability chemically so your overall society as a mass consciousness has a certain overall sense of energy momentum that usually does not divert or in this way is very unlikely to divert from what could be an overall generally sensed prediction but the individuals within it all in their own random way even though you cannot predict their action goes into making the total mass that is more predictable. You follow me?

**Attendee:** Yes where are these studies being conducted where they're getting close to this understanding of the template?

**Bashar:** Oh many many of what you call your physics institutions. Stanford.

**Attendee:** Yes Stanford yes MIT yes CCH yes some and also in other places other than your own country.

**Attendee:** So is this um the two pyramids together is that just a model to help us understand does this actually exist in some...

**Bashar:** It is a physiological representation in volumetric form of the equation which defines the non-physical template universe.

**Attendee:** Should ask a question one moment sorry do not be sorry are you finished?

**Bashar:** I just had one other question in physical science there's the notion of the scientific method in which uh you can you can predict a certain outcome by certain laws now in the non-physical universe is it is there such a scientific method or is it be totally...

**Bashar:** And understand that your again quantum physics is beginning to understand that what they have long defined as the classical scientific approach does not really exist in the empirical way that you think it does for they have discovered that you get the result that you design the experiment for and nothing else and that if you change the design of the experiment you get a different result. Both are real.

The contradiction and the paradox is your first indication that you contain the totality of all that is and within the higher self nothing is a contradiction.

**Attendee:** Yes thank you I got it thank you.

#### SHORT BREAK AND CONVERSATION 9: MANIFESTATION AND FILLING THE GAPS

**Bashar:** You briefly or would you rather prefer to wait after your break?

**Attendee:** Yes I would then you may all take a short break.

**Attendee:** All right I'll say. How is your energy doing?

**Bashar:** It's doing great thank you. How have you allowed your allowance to begin to create your particular methodology of manifestation with regard to how you are now seeing yourself as compared to how you were seeing yourself before?

**Attendee:** Damn I think I'm talking so slow I'm not sure what you said. How does how does how I feel about myself now compare to how I saw myself in the past? Spe myself uh much more conviction stronger um eyes um uh in...

**Bashar:** What way are your symbols forming for you now as opposed to...

**Attendee:** Um I'm not sure or if I'm sure I'm not aware of it.

**Bashar:** You an use my imagination very good you see you have the ability to fill in the gaps.

**Attendee:** I was going to say there must have been something to do with gaps in area.

**Bashar:** Yes it's true I have um more of willing to have more of the answers for myself.

**Bashar:** All right and it is the flow the continuous flow that you are now beginning to feel that is what allows you to create a reality in which there are no gaps that you fall into but simply ride smoothly over them and draw the obvious conclusion from the energy that you sense in the overall picture in much the same way as the analogy that you are now allowing yourself to perceive the water in the sea upon which you are sailing whereas before to you the smoothness was transparent and all that was revealing itself was the fraggy abyss filled bottom that you thought you had to cross treacherously up and down and up and down now you have filled your ocean and so can go sailing smoothly over the top filling in all the gaps.

**Attendee:** Yeah that's a nice analogy I like thank you.

**Bashar:** I like that I created that yes thank you for your sharing thank you.

#### CONVERSATION 10: CONSCIOUS CONCEPTION AND CO-CREATION

**Attendee:** The sure yes than you than you um I don't quite have the question formed but well it is all right make a statement out of it.

**Bashar:** Then I would like to hear some expansion on the of co-creation um condition love and conscious conception in terms of the birth of a being birth of a baby on this in the transition state from the fourth to the third dimension.

**Attendee:** Now what concepts are you creating already about each of these ideas?

**Bashar:** I still feel them separate I'm trying to integrate them as separate ideas.

**Bashar:** All right now understand that as long as you choose to be physical you are always going to perceive to some degree that separation that does not mean you cannot get the unbrokenness to work for you even while you are still generating the idea of some separation. You follow me?

**Attendee:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Do not assume that you are going to necessarily all of a sudden just become one big blank and not be able to tell any individual thing from any other individual thing. You follow me?

**Attendee:** Mhm.

**Bashar:** Simply know that as long as you choose to experience yourself in a physical reality you are expressing the idea of diversification differentiation within the homogeneous oneness for reasons of your own. In this way however you can utilize the idea of the unbroken to form a communication link that you know is always there between the different levels and it takes the form of knowingness and your imagination is the tool that is the translation device through which you can hear the higher self speak and speak to it and know that you have been heard.

Therefore with regard to the idea of consciousness to be born upon your planet simply know that you are in touch with any being with whom you are forming an agreement to act as a parent for that being in whatever way that you have co-created that scenario to occur and you can be sensitive to the communication with that being because there is an agreement being made. You follow me now?

Simply recognize that with allowance with recognition of your ability to assist that being to become used to the idea of physical reality but through the methodology of allowance not restricting them over much you can allow them to very rapidly in your terms of time within approximately three of your years their third year of physical life to be able to begin to communicate to you what they remember of the agreement that was made since they are not so very far from it which many times they do remember and you in your civilization chalk up to an overactive imagination which is invalidated as a real reality.

Simply in this way knowing to begin with that an agreement has been made before the physical birth and trusting that you are also making that agreement will allow you to carry through that sense that notion of the agreement that will allow you to function within a positive methodology in terms of what it is you educate the physiological aspect of the child with so that there does not need any longer to be so very much to have to unlearn before one can allow themselves to know they know all they need to know.

Now the idea of the unconditionality in a sense is what is being utilized to trust that that notion is serving the agreement that you co-created in that way. You follow me?

**Attendee:** Not quite though you are creating conditions that define the purpose of specific ideas or relationships the reason for the creation of those conditions comes from an unconditional love and this is what you are doing when you carry through the notion of simply knowing that you and the entity being born knows what they are doing and knows what type of agreement they are making and that is what will be lived out.

**Bashar:** Why thank you the methodology of how you go about that positive or negative will still be up to you physically here but in this way the more you allow yourself to trust that an agreement has been made and is being carried out the more you can trust that it is all right to assume that the only methodology that you require can be the preference of a positive one. You do not have to fear for the child you do not have to in the negative sense shelter the child but simply that your nurturing will automatically give you the positive shelter and guidance that is necessary for a being to become used to the idea of physical reality.

And in this way you can grow with the idea of the child reflecting back to you the symbol of your own inner awareness to have brought forth this agreement and see it reflected back to you from the child so that you are positively conscious of the circle of the agreement that you represent always feeding each other reflecting to each other the idea of the relationship that you are. Follow me?

**Attendee:** Mhm now will this have clarify to some degree the idea you requested there's one more point which has to do with the moment of conception or even preconception going on the idea that nothing is more important than anything else.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Attendee:** I don't have clarity yet on whether it's essential that on the moment you know at the moment of conception consciousness be aligned like if you with your imagination are creating for yourself a methodology that tells you it would feel right to you to perform some sort of idea of alignment then feel free to do so knowing that that is a part of the agreement because it is an expression of who you are willing to be and know that the child that chose you chose you because you are you so be willing to be you and you will be fulfilling the agreement.

**Attendee:** Okay and in co-creation with the father I see that as a trinity is depends on how many children you have.

**Bashar:** We understand proceed is it important that that's part of the alignment in my thinking.

**Attendee:** Not important is the right word of course it is a part of the alignment and it will be still no matter what the definition of the relationship a part of the agreement and the being coming through will have recognized what it is that is being played out in the relationship with the male female parent and will be there for the reason of experiencing those ideas so they can create their own reality by using that as a reflection for them to choose whatever they want.

**Bashar:** Okay you follow me?

**Attendee:** Yeah there is always an agreement and any relationship once created goes on forever no matter what the definition of the relationship is it is still the relationship even if the definition of the relationship is that you never see that person physically again that is still the definition of the relationship and obviously serves somebody's purpose most likely the one in the relationship that would be my first guess.

**Attendee:** Thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

#### CONVERSATION 11: SPACECRAFT TECHNOLOGY AND CONSCIOUSNESS

**Attendee:** Thear um well I don't know how to ex well let me just start asking all right um I'm completely intrigued and have been as long as I can remember with quantum mechanics physics and the unified field theory and have spent as long as I can remember playing around with the possibility of the mathematics of the relationship ship ni.

Just as the Heisenberg uncertainty principle is the postulate that allows you to apply the mathematics that solves for how subatomic particles behave what's the postulate and how would you apply the mathematics for how the unified field theory would describe physical behavior?

**Bashar:** Now to some degree the idea of the template we have described or begun to define. When you recognize what the template is you can recognize that physical behavior is a product of how the physical reality so to speak to make a crude analogy rests upon the template. How it overlays what is underneath what is underneath supports what is laid over it and the idea of so to speak physical behavior will be a reflection of the particular now bear with us the terminology in your society does not exist we will make do if you understand the idea of the crystallin structure you will understand that consciousness itself is what determines let us say which facet will receive more emphasis than another facet with regard to how much of that facet so to speak pokes up creating an impression in the physical reality that lays on top of it.

Your consciousness is what determines the conglomerate grouping of laws so to speak that determine the behavior of physicality in any particular universe because then that universe will reflect the overall ideas that the overall mass consciousness that is becoming that universe wishes to see reflected to itself.

Okay understand that this is the beginnings of why we say that when your physicists begin to include consciousness itself into the equation they will automatically understand how everything is one thing.

**Attendee:** And what is it about the form the inclusion of understanding the nature of the template what what is it from that how is it from that understanding you can apply the mathematics that would in essence describe the super structure of how the forces relate to one another?

**Bashar:** You can begin to understand how the one crystallin structure we have defined can offer let us say geometric analogies for every equation that you have created in the separate tied mathematical expression that you have been using to define your universe. Within that one structure you will find every equation that you are using you will find some way to relate it to that one structure and you will understand therefore how that one structure encompasses all the diversification of mathematical expression you have created in your society. It forms an analogy and we were using the example before to show how the uncertainty principle apply to that structure. There are many different equations that also apply to the same structure including the one that has recently arisen in your quantum mechanics about the idea of the so-called universe that you consider to be your universe being 11 dimensioned. The six facets and the five points.

Understand that there is not within our civilization a use of what you call mathematics in the same way as discrete equations. Rather our mathematics so to speak to use that term is the recognition of the relationships themselves. Our mathematics is relationship oriented rather than let us say fragment oriented. Do you follow me?

Therefore in this way and also because there is not to a great degree mathematical terminology within the memory bank of the physical channel there is in this way no way for us to translate into your mind mathematical terms the ideas we are expressing. We are attempting to create analogies but in this way the analogies are closer to our understanding of the idea of mathematics than to your understanding of what you call mathematics for to us philosophy is reality and analogy is only another term for the dimension of imagination which to us is very real and it is not so much that we need the so-called symbolic representational equations except in a very unified sense.

Thus to us our equations will take the form of the symbolic geometric we have described to you. To us that is an equation in our mathematical terms and that one equation as we have defined it will to us represent all of the differentiated linear equations that your society uses to express the same ideas.

**Attendee:** Is it possible with our current mathematics to in fact express an equation that would relate to is there any current mathematics now that can in fact be used to express um uh the unified um?

**Bashar:** Only in a sense it will require as it has many times in your history the creation of a new aspect of mathematics. Recognize that in a sense one of the most I'll say in your terms oldest concepts but a so-called relatively new branch of mathematics in your society can be used to explain in simple terms this idea.

What branch it is called and it is simply stated the principle of which in this manner whether you have one infinity or many infinities it is all the same. The idea is if you have a line you recognize that it is bounded by two points yes mhm and there are an infinitude of points in between the two end points. Yes and any other two yes and if you have a plane which is bounded by lines you have an infinity of lines within the plane and within any volume have an infinity of planes. Yes yes well the infinities within a line are equal to the infinities within a plane and equal to the infinities within a volume. Right because all infinities are the same. Right this is the type of so-called logic that will be applied through a new series or let us say simply a manipulation of terminologies that will create for you an understanding in your mathematical terms but it will take a slight manipulation of the mathematical terminologies that you are using now.

By definition if your society contained the mathematics to represent the idea of oneness you would already have the equation thus you must invent the equation to represent when you are willing to know what the idea of the unification is. Understand that everything that you create in your physical civilization it comes after the fact of your knowingness and is a reflection that you now know. It is not the other way around although you created to seem that way. That is for the purpose of experiencing your knowingness through a limited separated physical reality a very clever way of simply creating a mirror so that you always know that you know even though it seems that to know you have to not know first.

Thus when you know the idea of the one field and include yourself within the field and include yourself within the equation consciousness then that consciousness which knows itself as the one field will automatically give birth to the equation that represents that.

**Attendee:** No this um do you I don't know where this question is coming from do you get here by traveling?

**Bashar:** Do you mean when I use what you call my spacecraft or do you mean in terms of the channeling?

**Attendee:** The channeling.

**Bashar:** This is simply an identification of mentalities to form what you would perceive to be a third idea that you can communicate within. It does not have the idea of exactly regard for what you call time and space. It is in your terms outside of that so to speak and therefore is not a method that requires traveling which is the same as our spacecraft.

**Attendee:** Um okay right but the question that it formulated uh was is it is it traveling quote traveling I don't know another word to use exactly is it as though you're moving inside a gravity wave inside um bo I don't know how to say what I'm thinking.

**Bashar:** It is more the idea of beingness than what you would experience as traveling per se. It is more a recognition that traveling within outer space is traveling within mhm because everything is a projection of your consciousness therefore it is more of a going within and allowing the idea of the universe to come to you rather than having to go anywhere.

**Attendee:** Right if you were to understand outside of gravity or yes if you were to understand the idea of how you um quote move unquote your spacecraft would he understand perhaps we view the idea of motion so to speak through space in this way we do not consider that an object occupies space we consider location to be a property of the object. Therefore if you can create the idea of isolating that object say spacecraft from one particular idea location remove the original idea and insert a new idea then when you reintroduce it into the physical reality that carries with it the idea of location in space it will of definition by necessity cease to exist at location A and take up residence automatically at location B no matter how far apart.

**Attendee:** Is there an energy relationship?

**Bashar:** Yes there is an energy relationship.

**Attendee:** What is it I mean how if there's an energy relationship it must be measurable how do you measure it and what scale is it?

**Bashar:** The terminologies of our technology and yours will now allow me to choose words that may or may not be sensible. Okay when we allow ourselves to so to speak measure the idea of this energy relationship as the physical object relates to the physical reality it is moving around in it is let me say it is connected directly to the idea that we call our form of what you would call navigation. In this way the relationship is defined mind by the amount or let us say pressure of focus. The measurement of the distance which any particular consciousness that is piloting itself feels it contains will define the energy relationship as to how far the ship jumps.

**Attendee:** Do you require external amplification of the energy that of the conscious energy that you have in order to do that navigation?

**Bashar:** There is more a synchronization there is to some degree amplification of what you would call light energy to achieve the effect but in this way it is only allowing the spacecraft to channel what already exists in whatever quantities it requires it and so in a very real sense is not even so much the idea of an amplification as it is a step down.

**Attendee:** You keep talking about channeling an amplification I find those very nebulous and frustrating concepts I know I can speak for a few others that we're capable of could you try to give us a more technical explanation even if we you don't think we'll understand it give us a chance really all right channeling and the other concept um I was just giving an example I exactly how it is that you detach your ship from another location and move it here I want do you mean technically you require propulsion you say you conceive of a place you want to be you well that's right he says all right I know I want to know what it is technical as you want to we'll understand you give us a chance to see.

**Bashar:** All right no right no the idea is that everything in the physical universe is made of light. The craft focus this light and form a relationship a synchronization with an idea for which the craft has been designed that allows there to be the passage of this light through the amplification structure that we call a flash matrix.

This will be composed after passing through the idea of the collection crystal which is more or less a magnesium carbon matrix which is formed out of the idea of what you call cold fusion.

This amplification passes into the flash matrix which contains the idea of gold and extracts from the idea you call the gold a certain other kind of energy that you have not yet discovered within this metal upon your planet. This energy is what is called an etheric identification format and in this way it allows there to be a translation of the light into the type of energy required for the systems the metallurgical systems to be able to absorb in the magnesium what you call copper matrix.

There will be the creation of a spinning motion within the primary fusion rod or disc depending upon the model you are using and in this way this spinning motion will exemplify the vortex energy that represents the active principle in light and will be taking advantage of certain motions that are observable in what you call electron spin.

Therefore it will radiate this energy into a field around itself which the fibers that are embedded in the hole will be able to pick up and begin to channel through themselves much in the same way that you understand light is so to speak channel through what you call a fiber optic and in this way we'll create another type of identification.

This identification field this etheric idea this astral idea will actually be a plugging into the material that you have previously considered to be and disregarded from your equations what you previously called the ether.

In this way this etheric energy will then create or I'll say reinforce the idea of the physical ship but the physical ship will now shift its properties to the etheric ship concept by allowing the phase if you will of its physical molecules to be in a sense seceded by the etheric concept of molecules and in this way to become a blended state in what we call a quasi planar reality. When existing in this quasi planar reality this quasi energy matter state then the ship is so to speak for all intents and purposes unlocked from any particular solid fixed reality.

Now the concept of the ship itself is an amplification so to speak of our consciousness and what you would refer to as a so-called computer which in and of itself is so to speak self-aware and is only a symbolic embodiment of our own higher self will utilize its now ability over the etheric craft which now has dominion over the physical idea of the craft and it will call to itself its recognition of the all that is that it is and in this way this means simply that it is now finding itself directly perceiving what your scientists have called the interconnectedness on a quantum level. It will recognize the holographic nature of the universe that is the potential for any object to exist exists equal at every point in the universe. It will understand the holographic nature of itself and will simply recognize its potential to exist anywhere with regard to the idea of the locational matrix the xyz factor that we described before plus the time factor of any particular vibration that we wish to identify with. It will then simply be a matter of synchronizing with that vibrational signature that represents that particular reality that it perceives and then allowing there to be a reversal of the process so that it reintroduces itself back to physiological form and then the craft simply finds itself reflecting the signature vibration of whatever location and physical universe it identified with while unlocked from any particular physical universe. Then it will seem to have as you say hyper jumped from one place to another without actually having traveled the intervening space. You see to us what your spacecraft are doing is so to speak sliding around on the surface of space.

**Attendee:** Thank you very much for sure.

#### CONVERSATION 12: LIFETIMES, SOULMATES, AND RAYS

**Attendee:** Then you you said before that we have many hundreds to many thousands of lifetimes and I was just wondering if all of these lifetimes are to the Earth?

**Bashar:** Yes you have many more that are not.

**Attendee:** So when people well several people have said to me that that they recognized me as being an old soul so I don't know how they the idea of old soul is not really so much the idea of exactly how many lives per se but what idea of yourself you have allowed the live to represent present in this particular life. It is more a reflection of attitude than numerical count.

**Attendee:** It's like I'm learning more now.

**Bashar:** Perhaps you are willing to be more aware of more now.

**Attendee:** Okay okay the second thing is um last year I was going to another channel and I was talking about going on a trip to Europe and the channel and the guess at that time said that I would be meeting my soulmate and so I got all excited and had a lot of expectations about it and I went to Greece where supposedly I was supposed to beat this person and I met a few people and I kept going oh this is him this is sh and then I don't know nothing happened I didn't feel like I ever...

**Bashar:** All right we will simply say this briefly about the idea of soulmates. Understand again that you experienced the reality you are equal to. Therefore many individuals in your civilization will say well if only I could find my soulmate everything would be wonderful. What they don't realize is that knowing everything is already wonderful puts you on the level that the soulmate exists because a soulmate is a reflection of your completeness not of your need for the relationship in order to feel complete.

**Attendee:** Okay so so in my expecting something then I you were removing and separating yourself below the vibrational level that represents the idea of existing with someone to reflect your completeness to you.

**Bashar:** Okay well they so so I came back and I talked to them again and they said that I indeed did meet this person and I'm not sure who it was I was.

**Bashar:** When you allow yourself to be your own soulmate first you will then recognize the characteristics in someone else when you see them. If you are not equal to that idea you may meet them a thousand times and never recognize it because you are not seeing a reflection that is equal to that idea.

**Attendee:** Okay and the next question was if would I have the opportunity in this lifetime to meet that individual again?

**Bashar:** That is an obvious question the idea simply is this you are responsible for everything in your life. You call destiny and dates with destiny are always on time by definition therefore if that is a part of the idea that you have chosen to show yourself there is no way you will not experience it because you will experience everything you chose to experience in this physical life.

How you choose to experience it will be up to you and you can say that if you have so-called met this individual that that is the fulfillment of that experience but if you choose not to recognize yourself as already complete on that level then you may not have the positive side of that experience even though you will have met. It will still have served the purpose the purpose to be to show you that you were separating yourself from the idea of your own completeness and that is one of the things that a soulmate does it shows you what you are.

**Attendee:** So so can you define that terminology specifically soulmate is that someone who is the same as you?

**Bashar:** In a sense it can even be a part of the same soul. It is simply someone who is willing to reflect to you your completeness while you are willing to reflect to them their completeness.

**Attendee:** Okay and in a sense in a sense though we understand the way in which you mean the term because everyone actually always is equal and reflecting any idea you have co-created a relationship for then everyone is really your soulmate at any given moment because everyone is always reflecting perfectly what it is you are exploring about yourself and they are all souls and you are all mate.

**Attendee:** It was also suggested that perhaps the reason that I didn't recognize the word person because now this is going to sound funny but this is how it was put that I was wearing red and they were wearing blue but they were referring to the rays that we had incarnated.

**Bashar:** In a sense it was a statement of the idea simply that you are not vibrating on the same frequency.

**Attendee:** Mhm and and so this is why I've been trying to to you have been what I have been I have been researching the idea of race and I would really like to know more about it and specifically then go ahead and continue your research whatever gets you there.

**Attendee:** Okay I just I just don't understand this book very well.

**Bashar:** Well understand that you do not have to understand that with any tool you attract to yourself you will always understand exactly what you need to and let yourself go on to something else.

#### CONVERSATION 13: A CHILD WHO WANTED TO BE BORN

**Attendee:** You guys four years ago our time of being presented himself to me and said that he would very much like me to be his mother and at that time I told him I was not able to agree because I had just had another child and that to if he wished he could hang around and come back when he was ready and I was ready.

In November of this year I became pregnant and I was very aware that it was he that turned 6 weeks later I had a miscarriage and I'm understanding much about it and there's also much I don't yet understand and I guess my question really involved his return and will that happen for me.

**Bashar:** It may but understand this that may be all a physical reality that that being was requesting of you.

**Attendee:** That's what I thought.

**Bashar:** And that is why it was all right to have said yes before because the result would have been the same.

**Attendee:** I understand thank you you.

**Bashar:** Thank you there is in your terms a few more of your minutes remaining.

#### CONVERSATION 14: EARTHQUAKES, MAYANS, AND LEVITATION

**Attendee:** Sharing yes a month ago uh you were talking about some amount of energy behind an earthquake in the yes yeah I didn't hear any news of that actually occurring but there was like 2.9 um earthquake in Santa Monica or something I'm not sure of my data.

**Bashar:** You have dispersed and diversified that energy quite nicely and in this way you have already passed through what is called the seismic window for that particular occurrence that particular one.

**Attendee:** Okay good second question um it's understood that the Mayans did not use wheels did they use levitation?

**Bashar:** There were examples of that although you will find that their children had wheeled toys.

**Attendee:** Well uh our are understand this I will relate to you what is generally considered to be a legend but it carries with it some of the understanding of the mentality of the culture you call American Indian. The wheels were used as toys and relegated to that idea alone for in their legend the idea of the wheel is as such they understood the nature of the cyclic action and knew enough about the idea of the limitation in physical reality to know that for what they wished their physical reality to be the wheel would be something that once it started rolling could not be stopped and this was borne out to them in very graphic terms with the arrival of what they call western culture.

For you see in their terminology and in their mythology it is that wheel that has allowed you to completely cover what they consider to be so natural in order that you can ride upon it.

**Attendee:** Say that again last the idea of the use of the wheel has in their terminology destroyed the land.

**Bashar:** Okay and that is why they relegated the use to toys and wish to allow nature to remain wheel less.

**Attendee:** Okay they built a very large structure like seven acres I forget.

**Bashar:** Yes there are some that cover 15.

**Attendee:** Okay and they had apparently the apparency to our scientists is that they moved these large blocks of stone without the wheel.

**Bashar:** Yes is that correct how did they move them?

**Attendee:** Some were in the earlier periods that you call the levitation idea but also there is much in the way if we may use the terminology of the ingenious use of leverage in ways that your civilization simply has not gotten around to thinking about because they have no need to they had a need to discover principles of leverage that simply take advantage of some very simple ideas that may seem like magic but are not.

**Attendee:** Okay there's one theory that some of these stones uh were poured there.

**Bashar:** There is a few sources one of them being a plant that has the ability to in your terms dissolve granite and in this way much of what you recall as the formation of those walls were in fact poured into place and then simply allowed to solidify.

**Attendee:** This the same plant that s's crystal there can be to some degree that effect though we find there are different species of this idea in that central and top south America region.

**Attendee:** Thank you.

**Bashar:** Oh thank you.

#### CONVERSATION 15: DINOSAURS, BRAIN HEMISPHERES, AIDS, AND GOD

**Attendee:** All right you then you have a question about the extinc of the dinosaurs there's a lot of credit getting going to the meteor SL into the ocean what really did happen?

**Bashar:** In this way that will carry the greatest percentage of accuracy recognize that you do in fact have a dark star orbiting your solar system and it is responsible for the bringing an attraction of those ideas that you call meteorites from time to time into your inner system but also there were different ideas electromagnetic fluctuation within the gravitic field the electromagnetic field also caused very quick ice ages and very drastic altering of the electromagnetic sustaining life force.

There were some extinctions wherein the animals simply suddenly seemed to be paralyzed and dropped where they stood because of the electromagnetic shift it short circuited the life force in that way.

However also understand that what you call your dinosaurs are still very much with you in terms of their evolution for they have become what you call the birds one branch of them.

**Attendee:** Another question of evolution in physiology one qu this something I've always wondered about and never had an answer to is why does the right brain control the left side of the body and the left brain the right side why is there this decussation of fibers?

**Bashar:** It is an physiological exemplification of the idea of polarity which is one of the defining mechanisms of physical reality and always will cause you to have to go through the center of yourself to cause an interaction to take place.

**Attendee:** Okay another question may you give me some advice I'm involved in research with the AIDS virus and what would be the best line of attack with this thing?

**Bashar:** Now we have already suggested and we know that other of our own sources and associates that we have come in contact with that are also channeling through many of your beings upon your planet at this time also will suggest that you explore the chemical nature of what you call various berries cherry blue and black and also what you call the pits for chemical extraction that can be of assistance with regard to that particular idea.

**Attendee:** You're saying that to to kill this virus the answer lies in the cherry black...

**Bashar:** It will be the physiological representation of the idea of having discovered the idea of the cure within yourselves.

Now understand that the basic reason for why this disease exists in your society to begin with is always going to be like anything physical a product of a reflection of a psychological idea how you see yourself and in this case specifically because you have been for so long in your society unwilling to blend the male and female energies within yourselves you have created the idea of diversifications physiologically within your society of the transference of roles from one side to another and in this way by creating them to be ostracized from yourself yet creating another step of trying to get rid of a portion of yourself in this way you have reinforced the idea of creating a representative disease which allows you now to have to force yourself to include these individuals as interrelating in your society without the separations without the barriers.

For in this way the idea is that in fourth density you drop all the barriers so that new ideas of yourself can come in to allow you to change and therefore symbolically with the representation of this disease you will find that it represents the idea of the dropping of the barriers by the loss of immunity.

**Attendee:** But there's a specific etiological agent that causes it it's not...

**Bashar:** Yes but understand that any specific physiological agent will always simply be created by you to reflect the psychic reasons for why the disease is created to begin with.

**Attendee:** What about the the young child who just receives a blood transfusion and gets the contaminated blood I mean there's no disease in that child the blood...

**Bashar:** Yes there is understand that a being chooses its reality with full consciousness of what it wishes to explore and it knows full well that it is coming into a situation where it may experience that type because it may want to be of service by providing itself as a vehicle that those that are researching the causes and cures can utilize.

Understand that there is in that term with the non-physical being a complete and utter selflessness with regard to being of assistance in that way and many individuals that give themselves diseases do so to be of service so that other individuals can come to terms with the ideas for why those diseases are created to begin with.

**Attendee:** Okay now the physiological agent we have already discussed that the idea of researching the chemical analysis of the cherry blue and blackberry will have something to do with forming a symbol to so to speak combat the other symbol that creates the disease but nothing will ever change until you change the idea of yourself of your society and allow yourselves to blend the male and female energies within each and every female and male.

You will find not that it is right or wrong but when your society accepts its own maleness and femaleness then individuals that are reincarnated now from this point forward into your society when they choose to either be physically male or female will not need to express the tool that you call homosexuality for they will have chosen consciously what idea of the polarity they wish to be because now it is all right for both males and females to allow their male female and female male energy to be completely equal.

**Attendee:** See you keep talked about this that social transformation has to occur in order to cure the disease if you take a disease like smallpox it was a scientific...

**Bashar:** But that is only a symbol. Understand what we said is that when you know certain aspects about yourself you are able then to create a symbolic representation that seems to be the cure. Understand this every individual gives themself the disease and cures themself.

Recognize that nothing you physiologically administer in and of itself does anything it is only a symbol for what belief system they are willing to abide by and someone who does not contain the belief system that they can be cured by your most advanced medicine will not be. You go and ask your doctors how many people die when they should not have and how many people cure themselves when they should be dead.

**Attendee:** Then why is it that if you take a group and you give them placebos you get only 30% response?

**Bashar:** Because that is the ratio of the idea of the percentage of the belief system in your entire society stud is controlled by giving it a similar population group of the drug with 100%. We will repeat the idea once again you get the results you design the experiment for. So what you are calling a control is a very specific attitude and it is designed to give a certain result that reflects the level to which those individuals conducting the experiment and interacting in the experiment are willing to extend their belief system.

**Attendee:** You telling me a little bit more about the cherries about the berries because you know it's real nebulous again and I want I mean this is a real health concern and if you know tell us.

**Bashar:** What simply once again understand this idea we are not here to run your lives nor are we here to be an all giving answer machine we are here to assist and reflect to you what you are willing to do in your society it is your world.

Now we are not in this way also because once again of the physiological channels knowledge and terminology equipped to discuss the idea of chemical equations in your language but simply if you will for yourself explore the chemical constructs that you will find in those three substances you will find that there is a correlation between that and an extract that can be synthesized that will have some effect on the agent that causes the disease in a physiological sense but only when the individuals who are conducting the research are about to allow themselves to understand the connections that are going on within their own beings and when your entire society that is involved in the creation of that disease is on the verge of allowing itself to understand the reasons within its own consciousness for why this has been created.

Only then will the extracts and the chemical analysis and everything else make sense and it will reveal itself the moment you reveal to yourself the reasons for why this idea exists and many times these ideas exist to force you to look at yourself for the answer outside of what you previously have considered to be the only way to find it in the physical reality. It is not the only way.

**Attendee:** Can you tell me a little bit about God Ian is there god is all that is god is its own being and it is the recognition of itself as the compilation of all of you and holographically it is the recognition that each and every one of you contain the totality of the whole so that you are also all that is is the understanding of god on your planet any greater than it is on this planet or is it pretty...

**Bashar:** It is different it is simply that god is all that is whereas we find on your planet many people even when they say well god is all powerful somehow god is still outside themselves or they are still outside god.

**Attendee:** Well god as the creator I mean you can't create yourself or you say you can't.

**Bashar:** You are the creator we are the creator all of you and every being in creation is also the creator. Understand that if the creator is all powerful then what you can conceive as the most concept is for the creator reality real reality. Therefore knowing that you cannot conceive of non-existence then recognize that anything your imagination can come up with on some level of creation is real.

That you can conceive of the idea that the one can contain many and that each of the many can contain the one in and of itself says that that is the nature of the creator because the creator is powerful enough to allow all of its parts to also be the whole.

In the same way you have a mythological definition in one of your eastern cultures that is called Indra's net it is a net of many pearls all spherical and the idea behind it it is that it is holographic in nature in the sense that every pearl in the net because it is 360 degree mirror reflects all the other pearls and thus can be said to contain the information and the actuality of all the other pearls and it is the same with every individual being. Every individual being in creation is all the different ways that all that is has of looking at itself and therefore you are all that is and you are a fragment at the same time. Both paradoxes exist simultaneously within all that is because all that is is exactly that all that is and that means anything you can imagine.

**Attendee:** Where do Jesus into that picture?

**Bashar:** In the way that that being represented a materialization in your plane of existence that was a reflection of one aspect of your total consciousness and it was reflecting to that total consciousness that the capability of the total is inherent in each part and that if you simply be like him you will recognize that that being did not want you to follow him he was expressing that you could be like him and the only thing he was doing was reflecting his awareness of his connection to himself as all that is.

In this way you can find that the idea that you call your so-called second coming will not be an individual it will be the recognition by each and every one of you of your own Christ consciousness your recognition of yourself as all that is that is your second coming and that will be what is responsible for the creation of heaven on earth.

**Attendee:** But that's to negate the the Catholic notion of Jesus as the son of god different are all children of all that is.

**Bashar:** Yeah but the tr there's a distinction made in the Catholic religion are you negating that it says that Jesus I am saying that there is an interpretation that is valid for the way those people look at that idea however that interpretation is only an interpretation let me only one religion that's right or or all of the religions correct there is no such thing as right or wrong the idea is that any religion is like anything else a tool and is valid for the individuals that have created it and partake in it because it shows them what they need to see in themselves in that particular way to understand themselves as all that is.

Recognize also that the idea of fourth density will be the recognition that there is not only one way there is not only one path. If there was only one path there would only be one person. Each and every one of you is a path unique equal but unique and thus you can say that out of the approximately 5 billion people that exist upon the surface of your planet there are 5 billion religions 5 billion economic theories 5 billion countries 5 billion ideas 5 billion universes complete unto themselves that share the common agreement that they will interact within what seems to be a generally common idea but which contains infinite diversity and it is only by the granting of validity to all of the infinite diversity that you allow yourself to support the unity of all that is because all that is is infinite diversity for no other reason than simply because it can be.

For existence existed before there was the idea of purpose and that which has existed before purpose does not need a purpose to keep on existing in the way it always has.

**Attendee:** Are you an evolutionist or a creationist?

**Bashar:** Both for understand again that anything you experience as a dichotomy as a polarity has its source in one point the center of the two concepts that seem in your physical universe to be contradictory still both concepts come from you and are blended in your higher consciousness thus both are tools that validly represent certain ideas about how realities are created and you will find that in your civilization it is both that have interacted there is the idea to some degree of the physiological evolution but there is also the idea that you exist eternally and always have and that there is the idea of the co-blending of a physiologically evolved vehicle with an already existent consciousness.

The fallacy in a sense which causes the negative confusion is the supposition that physiological evolution itself is responsible for what you recognize as consciousness. It is consciousness which is responsible for physiological evolution.

**Attendee:** Briefly yes um I'm aware of a color that seems to be a mixture of many different metals but has no name I'm wondering if that if the color that I'm perceiving is related to the magnesium the isotope that you were talking about of the magnesium can you somewhat define the color?

**Bashar:** Yes it's a mixture of copper gold silver uh it is orichalcum pure crystal what you are defining is an Atlantean metal.

**Attendee:** Okay the other element is mercury.

**Bashar:** All right it seems like an opener.

**Bashar:** It is an amalgam that was created to resonate to the vibration of the higher ideals.

#### CLOSING

All right we will take this opportunity to once again thank you for the sharing of all the infinite viewpoints that you represent of your civilization for to us this is an unconditionally loving gift and it allows our civilization to recognize that much more of all the different ways that all that is has of expressing itself and so to us allows our view of all that is to be that much more rich in awareness.

We will thank you for your gift we extend to your unconditionally loving energy for whatever you wish to make use of it and in this way we will remind you that your civilization and ours are the sharing that continues forever we bid you exciting dream lives.


