---
title: "Desire and Allowance"
description: ""
c: "purple"
# date: 2025-03-07
icon: Elan
showdate: true
weight: 3
tags: ['']
---



You create your own reality. We co-create realities together. We co-create common experience, but it boils down, on your end, to the creation of your own reality.

No matter how it may seem in the creation of any particular effect that that is something happening to you—that is the degree of your power, and that is an apparency, for everything that happens, happens from you.

Desire is one aspect of grounding yourself to who you know yourself to be. It is, in that sense, an expression of, shall I say, your own particular discernment and expression of what you sometimes refer to as your own particular taste. 

And in that sense, allowing yourself to honor the things, the nuances, that stand out in your consciousness, and begin to move upon these messages, upon these desires.And again, conveniently secondly, is the idea of allowance. And there may be, again, the apparency that in your life to create, when you begin to look at doing so consciously, that there is a great deal of diligence and effort required in order to create your reality according to preference, which is the exploration you are now viewing. But paradoxically, allowance—allowing your reality to unfold—is truly the only way to have it, in that sense, go your way, so to speak. For the idea is, your reality always changes, and through allowance, you can allow those changes to deliver many things. Through resistance, you slow down your own process.So as an overview, that will do, and we will begin with the idea you call desire. Now, we have discussed many times that your reality is created through your actions, and that the foundation of creating those actions, and therefore the foundation for creating your reality, are your beliefs, emotions, and thoughts. Now, when we speak of desire, we are not speaking of the connotation that your society sometimes places upon that term of meaning a "need," or any nuance of the idea that you are not inherently complete and that something external can make you complete. That form of desire—that desire of need out of incompleteness—is not what we refer to, and will generally be accompanied by what you call great anxiety. So it is not even generally the same feeling itself; there is, again, an avoidance aspect of desire. That is not what we are discussing.What we are discussing is that nuance of an emotion within you that allows you to know, in a given moment from what is in front of you as either an experience or an option, that one of those ideas emotionally stands out as a desire. Therefore, again, part of what you would refer to as your excitement would be expressed through the emotionality you call desire. So beginning to allow yourself to get in touch with what you truly desire and feeling that desire is actually step one, for the allowance of that feeling—remembering that it is an alignment to who you are—allows you to key in on who you are in that moment.Now, for a moment to simply make the point, if you will all close your eyes. Simply now picture yourself in whatever scenario you find most comfortable. Do not be concerned about detail; do not, in that sense, assess your ability to imagine. Simply, in that way, create any pleasant scene in your mind through which there are things around you that intrigue you, and allow yourself to feel the desire that arises from, in that sense, those options. Create whatever scenario in your mind that you find the doing of simply because, perhaps, it is something you've always wished to do, or simply just because. And allow yourself to feel, as your imagination provides, whatever specific scene that it does—and that will vary completely to all of you. Allow yourself to feel that desire to see the thing, whatever it is, whatever that represents in your imagination, and feel the desire just prior to interacting with it. Allow it to come in whatever form it does. And should, perhaps, one or two of you find nothing is coming, continue to simply call up, conjure up in your imagination, something you find most enjoyable that you are about to do.Allow yourself to simply feel desire without anxiety—the simple emotional expression of the desire itself.All right, now open your eyes. Understand, if you allowed yourself to participate in that co-creation, that is fine. If not, sometime during what you call this evening, this interaction, you will feel desire. And simply, what we are doing is initiating or keying you into that sense of desire so now you can very, very, shall I say, astutely keep your eyes, ears, and so forth out for that idea. For what moves you, literally moves you, is that desire.And understand that we sometimes refer to emotions—emotion—as "energy motion." And what emotions actually do is take from the mental plane what you call your belief and activate it into your physical reality. Emotions are activating mechanisms themselves. So when you feel that desire, not only is it the sign, perhaps you can say from your higher consciousness, from your higher self, whatever you wish to call it, that the thing that you are desirous of is most representative of who you are, but it also sets into motion a propensity, a tendency, toward the manifestation of that very thing. And that is something that you are simply not taught.So when you move into action, having honored, having experienced that desire, you actually have what you refer to colloquially as a head start, for energetically it turns a key within your reality and then makes it that much easier to act—but not by denying your desire; by allowing yourself to feel that desire and to perhaps, again, revel in that feeling. Because once again, it is an expression in the circumstances, in the specific events—it is a direct expression of who you are. It is presenting itself to you and simultaneously activating its potential, activating its tendency to allow you to then midwife it into your reality.So therefore, desire sets up a foundation, it sets up an alignment, and it sets up an activation. And desire is a very strong, positively oriented emotion. Again, when you are functioning out of a sense of completeness, not need—that is an entirely different idea. Once you key in on the thing that truly moves you—again, moves you, energy motion—it moves your reality in the direction to allow you to manifest that thing most effortlessly. All that is paradoxically required, aside from whatever action that you can take, is part two: allowance.For the idea is, when you change a belief, when you change who you are fundamentally, primarily because you are in a physical universe containing linear time, some of the symbols that may have been representative of the old, outdated idea still have not played out in your present time now. If you interpret them when they come around as "here they come again," you lock yourself into the old belief pattern and results of the old belief. But if you understand, "Look at this. On the surface, it seems like the same old reality, but I know through my desire and alignment that that is no longer representative of who I am," you then can allow that symbol to deliver a different message. Allowing a symbol to deliver the message according to the old belief yields the quote-unquote "old negative result." Realizing that you have changed—obviously because you decide to—and allowing yourself to see how it has changed, even old-seeming symbols, gives these seemingly again old symbols new meaning and thereby new effect.So the allowance, once again, once you have had a desire or desire to make a change, of allowing your reality to be what it already is rather than plugging in a definition that it should be something else—that is one expression of allowance itself. Allowing your reality to deliver to the new you, perhaps again, seemingly situations with an old face, but that now have a completely new significance. And if you are the new you that you choose to be, you will look for the new significance; you will look for the differences, not the similarities. If you are looking for the similarities, in the moment you are doing so, you are doing so from the old perspective.So allowing your reality to be what it is, and then acting or moving through that reality with a desire to intend that it be something else, allows the reality to change. And again, change is a universal constant. Therefore, you do not have to make something change; literally, any making or forcing would make things appear to stay the same. So change being the constant it is, simply then, not a matter of needing to impinge on the natural flow—make, force, divert—so much as it is to allow what is already there to serve you. Then it will change its face.When you had an old belief and felt something did not belong in your reality, you treated it that way and acted that way and created that effect. But now you can choose to allow it to exercise your allowance, and allow it to deliver its message. When you find that something occurs in your reality which is, on again, the surface completely negative and perhaps reminiscent of something that you have already explored, I again remind you that the new you will desire to look at it through different eyes. Because again, when you receive the service from any symbol, particularly those that you label repetitive, and allow it to deliver its message, then the messenger no longer has a reason to exist. And anything that seems to repeat, I again remind you, is simply a message that you have not allowed yourself to get.When you change who you are through your desire, by allowing your reality to deliver whatever it is—whatever you need to look at will come up. You will not need to plan it or process through anything; it will automatically and effortlessly come up. And when it comes up, allow the timing that is the perfect timing and tells you that is the perfect moment for you to integrate that idea.So allow your reality to be what it is, not what you insist that it should be. Allow for your timing, and again remember, when you make or force or control and contract, you then are not in the posture, in that sense, to be filled, to receive. Allowance is the loosening of that grip and opens you to a posture of receptivity. It allows you to interpret your reality, again, through your desire, through what you wish to explore, allowing the things that perhaps you may have deemed you need to explore to simply come up when they do, and allowing that timing to be absolutely perfect.So paradoxically, you do not create your reality by making anything happen. It is literally as though your reality was a great river rushing many hundreds of miles an hour with turbulent waters in a particular direction, and you may, in that sense, wade into the middle of that stream and attempt, in that sense, to have your reality conform to your wishes by, in that sense, blocking the flow. But you will very quickly find you are carried downstream anyway. But by simply allowing the flow, and understanding that the turbulence and speed of that flow is the exact perfect expression of what will get you exactly where you wish to be, and allowing yourself to simply dive into that stream, you will then be carried to the nearest shore upon which is then the circumstance and opportunity that will allow you to do anything you say you wish to do.And if you contain any beliefs which are contrary to the manifestation of the things that you desire, through your allowance and your say-so, it will come up—in the form of an emotion, in the form of an action, in the form of a mode of thinking. But that then hands you back the power to trace, "Well, if I am acting in this particular way, perhaps negative; thinking in this particular way, perhaps negative; feeling this particular way, perhaps negative—what must I believe?" And if you are willing to be that much of an owner in your reality in every given moment, again, the contradictory beliefs that you feel are subconsciously stored present themselves to you upon a silver platter in perfect timing.So when you allow this to occur, your reality, again paradoxically, moves the fastest and displays what you call extreme acceleration, and the old symbols—the symbols that are perhaps again more representative of an older style of thinking—will play out. And as you reassign them, you will allow them to transform. When you deny them, I remind you, you put them back, they get in line, and when they get to the front of the line, they are quite angry. But when you revel in the timing— when you take it to the opposite extreme, and rather than saying, "Oh no, here comes a belief I don't prefer, I'm going to have to face it, oh no"—you can always remember that when it is presented to you, it becomes a gift. For when you own a belief, you can then choose a new belief because that equalizes it to all other beliefs. When you deny it, back in the closet it goes.So the timing and the allowance of that timing, once you have decided to allow your desires to be acted upon with integrity... Integrity does not, in that sense, become elusive in this process. Whenever we speak of acting on excitement, whenever we speak on acting from desire, we always mean that those actions include your full integrity. If, by the way, you find that your actions are out of your integrity by your own standards, you will allow yourself to see that in no uncertain terms as well. So do understand that there is no escaping yourself, for where will you go? Anywhere you hide is merely a fabrication within you; any door you create is made of you; any place you retreat is into yourself. There is truly no outside. And because everything exists within you, though perhaps some things will have more likelihood to occur in a particular reality, it is simply literally a matter of allowing from the pool of experience the things that you desire to stand out to, through that desire, be activated, and through the allowance of your reality be delivered to you through experience, and through your choice acted upon with integrity.This truly boils much of what we have spoken down to in yet another perspective, to that nucleus of thinking, and we will find, I am sure, many other ingenious ways to say this, embellishing many different ideas within it. But the bottom line for those of you who are not new to these interactions is still allowing yourself to be activated by what excites you and acting upon the opportunity in the moment that excites you with integrity. The allowance then just becomes automatic, for again, anything that will come up will, and your willingness to act and use those reflections in a positive way as service will allow them to transform out of your life completely, and if they are things that you desire, will magnify and intensify the effect that you get from them. So when a belief comes up that you no longer prefer, rather than "oh no," say "thank you, thank you, thank you."How vast your reality always is, as is all of them. Allow me to once again thank you. Your willingness to participate with us is a manifestation of your willingness to begin to allow yourself to meet yourself—perhaps, again colloquially, what you have heretofore referred to as the more alien portions of yourself, but nevertheless still within yourself. This brings us great joy. We also discover many things from your interactions, and many times it will be the simplest, smallest thing that one will share with us that will be of the most benefit. You are an ingenious society, absolutely mastering your phase of reality. That phase of reality is no longer merely confined to separation and limitation, so though you are the masters of those, you are now mastering transformation, and now are firmly standing, perhaps you can say loosely speaking, with one foot in each door or one foot in each room—but remember, you are both rooms anyway. Nothing is outside of you. For this willingness to open up to who you are and share that expression with me, I thank you. I thank you, for you honor me with this. And once again, open up this interaction for exchange.Participant: The timing of this topic is, of course, perfect. Um, a few issues that I have to clear up on it. One is, when you're allowing, how—how do you not miss on taking action?Elan: Well, again, allowance is an overall orientation. It is not the entire, shall I say, emphasis. Allowing your reality to be what it is will include the idea of then acting on the opportunities that you have allowed yourself to attract. Thank you for the distinction, and this is one of the reasons we request clarification in these more intensive formats. Does that help?Participant: Well, yeah, it does. I just see that, you know, a lot of times people don't wait around for the safe to fall upon their heads, right? And don't see the opportunities that are all around them.Elan: Well, allowing your reality to be what it is includes opening your eyes very wide and seeing what it is.Participant: And in terms of, um, limiting beliefs... this week I did that. I—I...Elan: You are by no means alone.Participant: Yeah, that's my next question. But anyway, went through uh this whole negative thing, and a lot of times, you know, it always boils down to the deservability when it's related to the desire, you know? "Do you deserve it?" Well, yeah. Oh, got that out of the way pretty easily. But—but by allowing it, I cycled through it so fast that it just, you know, just went away.Elan: Well, thank you for making another point, and that is the allowance of your negative emotionality or whatever you are perceiving as negative experience of any type. Cutting it off, back into the closet. Allowing it to play out then gives you the opportunity to glean messages and then generally also provides some opportunity for action.Participant: Well, yeah. And then it became like funny, because—Elan: Oh, thank you!Participant: Toward the end of it, I just started laughing. I'm like, "How does this serve me?"Elan: Well, you are centered, and from that centered state, now you will act upon what is available. When you lament over what is not available, you are still doing something, that's right.Participant: So that's looking into the past more.Elan: Yeah. Well, and projecting a negative future from that past. But another way to look at it is you've already done that, why bother to do it again?Participant: Okay. The other question was, um, was actually of Jim M., he says... no, but a sneaky question. All good questions. It's about momentum. When, you know, a group of this size is given a topic, um, is there momentum behind everyone kind of thinking on it, and that plays more into our life because of that?Elan: Our own particular perspective would not be to use the terminology "momentum" so much as concentrated and organized focus. So the idea is that it comes up, it is to your awareness as your reality moves on. If you are so inclined, perhaps you will then see "I have desires," or whatever the particular subject is. So it may bring itself to your awareness from time to time, but again, more from the idea of an agreement, a focus, than a momentum. Momentum is completely illusionary. You create what you perceive to be momentum and perpetuate the recreation of it in each moment, so it is an apparency of having its own life. But since in any moment you can cease to continue to create that, momentum is an illusion. For the idea of momentum would not allow you to immediately stop it—there would be what you call some after-movement.Participant: So then, would that mean that having a group of this size concentrate on that wouldn't facilitate it?Elan: Well, yes, it would, but I would not refer to that as momentum. Simply concentrated focus.Participant: Okay. So that would, though, incline to make it easier.Elan: I... but do understand that I do not prepare what I say to you, and in fact, have no idea what I am going to say until I say it. For it is completely irrelevant until I say it to me. I do not ponder it ahead of time.Participant: That's all. Thanks a lot.Elan: Well, that is not quite all. Are you reconciled with the terminology we were utilizing in the last interaction? Was it finally explained, perhaps with the analogy of a car coming by splashing you? Every time you kick that car, you will hurt your foot. That does not mean that it is the same situation; you are always a different person, but similar actions can be, in that sense, understood to yield similar results. Is that clarified? We wish that it is.Participant: Yeah, it is.Elan: Oh, did you hear that analogy at the last interaction?Participant: Um, yeah, I heard it. It's—it's uh... it took me a while thinking on it to, on my own...Elan: Oh, if any idea comes up in this regard, please share, for we wish, in that sense, for full clarity. All right, thank you. Shifting now.Participant: Hi, greetings.Elan: Greetings.Participant: This is a good topic for me. I've been thinking since the last interaction... I've been thinking about this topic and had focus in my life topic, and um, I have a very strong desire in my life what I want to create. And since I have this desire and um vision in a relationship, um, all my limiting beliefs have been coming up.Elan: Oh, what a coincidence! Perfect timing.Participant: And—and I've been saying that, and some of them feel so painful. I—I believe I'm interpreting it negatively.Elan: Well, do you understand that you have the strength to feel the most—most painful one of them? And not only do you have the strength to feel it, but completely glean from it, completely understand where it comes from, and thereby, through acknowledgement and allowance, completely transform it?Participant: I—I have been doing that.Elan: Do you have a fear, though, that there is something within you that, in that sense, can overcome you? And before you answer, I perceive that you do.Participant: Yeah.Elan: All right. Now, analytically, does it truly make sense for creation to hand you anything that you couldn't handle? Another way to ask that is, does it make sense that extraneous things would creep into your life or creation itself?Participant: No.Elan: All right. So are you willing to perhaps acknowledge that perhaps because you are feeling it, that in and of itself, as we had discussed with the desire, is enough to tell you you can handle it?Participant: Yes.Elan: All right. But happy swimming.Participant: Yeah. But no, I understand that, but what it's bringing me to is some very deep truths within myself.Elan: Well, how exciting! The deeper truths that you root out, and the deeper truths that you weed out that no longer apply to you—the larger, grander, sweeping changes then occur as a reflection in your life. So one way to look at it is, "Oh no, I'm at the bottom of the barrel," and another way to look at it is, "Oh joy, I'm at the end of the rainbow."Participant: But I need to um state something to this person of what um my truth is in a particular situation.Elan: Oh, well, in many of the discussions that we have had with you in particular, and many of you, when you do that thing, then your reality provides the circumstance to allow you to continue the flow. Where you hang up is in pondering it, deciding, thinking, running it over and over. The paralysis of analysis.Participant: I know. So I have...Elan: Well, you do not have to do anything. But if you take the action, as in many of the other times that you have, first of all, the results will not be what you expect, and second of all, you will then allow your reality—allow your reality to deliver the feedback to either keep you in that direction or point you in the straighter direction to your path. So the avoidance in and of itself is the only thing hanging you up.Participant: Right. So maybe that's what I'm learning about my belief about avoidance.Elan: That is one of the ideas. But again, when I spoke of happy swimming in the sea of your beliefs, that will generally be, in that sense, preceded by a dive into that sea. So have the open posture of allowance to know "I am ready to allow my reality to deliver the vestiges of my obsolete beliefs, and get excited about it." And in fact, if you wish to simply cut through much of this, allow what you perceive to be the worst come up first. After you handle that and show yourself in no uncertain terms how simple it is, everything else will pale in comparison. So perhaps, in a sense, you can use the reflection of the intensity of that degree of negativity as a reflection for the degree of strength that you have to handle it. Is this of practical service?Participant: Yes, it is. As—as simple as one of your phone calls, is it not?Elan: Yes. All right. Do you wish, in that sense, that I give you the dime, or will you move by yourself?Participant: I'm moving by myself.Elan: All right, we have no money. How convenient. Thank you, thank yourself. You are creating your life flawlessly and have now injected the, shall I say, concept of preference and are beginning to get the feedback that that works as well. We thank you for your bravery. Shifting.Participant: First of all, I want to thank you for the private session I had. It—it's had a tremendous impact.Elan: Well, allow me to thank you for the one that you gave me.Participant: You're welcome. And now, along the lines that you were just talking about, um, this must be pretty deep. I—I believe that I am allowing myself to see uh reality...Elan: You have made a shift in your perspective.Participant: Okay.Elan: A slight shift, but as we have said, it has made a grand change. Now the change will not only be in your ability to act in your reality, but also in your perception, as now you are seeing through the new beliefs which are less limiting and more empowered.Participant: Okay. Uh, specifically though, there's a situation I'm going through, and I believe things are coming up because I am in a position to really... a more empowered position to look at things that are terrifying to me, and they're coming up. Oh, and I guess I'd just like some... I feel your support when I'm—when I'm... It has to do with a massage and some terrifying things that happen to me when I'm going through it, and I don't know what it is. And I feel like something is pushing me to... every time I go through it, there's a release and—and there's a freedom, but I feel like it's a bottomless pit, and I don't know what the terror is.Elan: No, no. Perhaps the terror is that it is a bottomless pit. It is not. But the idea is that you are delivering to yourself, as was mentioned, your own reflection of your ability to deal with it. You are fully ready now to deal with this idea. But I remind you, no matter what you find it, whether it is an experience or a concept, has no effect on you until you match it in agreement in the moment. It has, again, no momentum; it is recreated. And that may make it seem like it carries a momentum, but in any moment you can simply choose, "All right, I feel this terror." Find a place, a comfortable place, wherever it may be, whatever is convenient, and feel it. Create it, imbue it, test yourself. "Wait a minute, this is the most terror I have ever felt. Can I feel more?" And allow yourself allowance. Allow yourself your emotion.Then ask, while you are feeling it—not later in a hypothetical situation—"What must I believe? What is coming to me? What do I perceive has happened?" or whatever, and something will come up. Now, if it is something that is from this life, all well and good. If it is something that would appear to be from a past life, all well and good. But understand that regardless of what the ultimate label winds up being, it only exists now because you recreate it without addressing it, without acknowledging it and owning it. Are you prepared to own that degree of yourself, understanding that that is the bottom of the barrel, and once you do, there is no longer a bottom? The barrel no longer fills, for you no longer deny who you are. And denial always has filled that barrel, and acknowledgement has always allowed it to pour empty. But is that practical?Participant: Yeah, it's kind of like this is the ultimate fear of mine, so when I can allow it and then I will get through it...Elan: It is proportionally related to the amount of benefit that you will receive. So if it is the ultimate fear, then it brings with it the ultimate reward.Participant: That's what I sense, and that's why I'm pursuing it.Elan: That's why, even though you may create what you call anxiety or nervousness, you can understand, if you conceptually grasp what I am saying, that there is some excitement there, too, in anticipation of the fact that what you are doing is transforming your most limiting belief. So the very thing that most of you fear the most, no matter what that is, brings along with it your greatest liberation if you are willing to face it rather than deny it.Participant: So some of the feedback, you know, I get is, "Why bother doing this? All you're doing is upsetting yourself." But my trust in myself is this is something I need to do to get free.Elan: Well, the freedom will simply be when, in the moment, you decide enough is enough. This has done what it has, in a sense, been created to do. "I understand the message, and I simply no longer choose to experience it." That then would require you allowing your reality to be that way and treating and interacting with it through that allowance.Participant: But—but I can only say that when I'm feeling the intense fear. Right? I mean, if I say it now, "Okay, I allow this, you know, to serve me," and I hear it, and it's—it's... that's not what you're talking about.Elan: Well, the point is that when you feel it, is part of the point. Not only that you feel it; the timing of feeling it is always, for any of you, whether you choose to take the opportunity and use it or not, it is always telling you right now, if you want to, you can transform this by its mere presence in that moment and nothing else.Participant: So to get really specific, if I'm shaking and feel, you know, this terror, I can at that point say... but I have to really feel it. I do not hold a bit of it back.Elan: That one bit that you hold back is the embodiment of the remaining denial. So, perhaps I will be liberal with your language: freak out, do whatever you wish, but do not hold back. And when you get to the point where it kind of feels like, "Now what?"—for it will not simply keep pouring out, it is not a bottomless barrel, and this is one of the things that will allow you to see that it is not a bottomless barrel—when you allow yourself to feel that, you do get to the point of, "All right, now what?" The "now what" stage is where you can question, "What must I believe to have created that?" And you can then add, "What must I now believe about myself to face it?" Little pat on the back never hurts. If something else comes up to share, again, shifting.Participant: That last thing you said, "What do I have to believe now..."Elan: Well, I thought it was shedding, but all right. Oh yeah, find me. All right, greetings.Participant: And to you. You said a minute ago that, "What do I have to think now to allow that feeling to come up?"Elan: Yes. The point is this: when you are willing to begin to look at beliefs that you have avoided, the mere fact that you are looking at them is an expression of the fact that you now believe you can handle it. So pat yourself on the back. Though you will express some limiting beliefs, you are also beginning to express empowering beliefs as well. So the mere fact that you are willing to look at it is the expression that you now believe you can handle it.Participant: Okay. And when you avoid it, it is the expression that you believe that you cannot, and back into the closet does it go. Thank you.Elan: Oh, thank you. Shifting, male.Participant: Then you... I have two questions.Elan: All right. Number one.Participant: First one, I think, is easy. When you referred before to the word "yourself"—you said, "You cannot escape yourself"—is that... does that mean the physical aspect of ourselves?Elan: No. God, no. No, in no way does it mean the physical, and in fact, you can shift your emphasis or point of view from the physical so far that you perceive that you are out of your own body. What I mean is what you would refer to as colloquially the "I am" within each and every one of you, what we sometimes refer to as your signature vibration. Again, because change is the only constant and your face, your appearance, your attitude, your beliefs change, the only thing that allows you to identify you as the same you is the "I am"—is your own signature vibration. Does that translate?Participant: Not really. Oh, I don't understand the "I am."Elan: Are you in any way physically similar to, as you say, the way that you were when you were born?Participant: No.Elan: Do you think the same way?Participant: No.Elan: Do you carry yourself the same way? What allows you to know that you are the same person now? Before you answer, the answer to that question is the answer to your question. That is what I mean by yourself. It is the infinite and eternal, yet multi-dimensional portion of you—your soul or over-soul or higher self is one way to look at it. If this is not clear, please continue to ask.Participant: I'm—I understand what you're saying, but translating that back to the statement, "You cannot escape yourself," are you basically saying that our perceptions all emanate from the "I am" vibration, therefore we can't go anywhere? Is that a...Elan: In any way, in this physical universe, which is what we are discussing, that you choose to express yourself, where you hide pieces of yourself from other pieces in what you colloquially call subconscious, you may understand in that way the beliefs that you create will always make themselves obvious in your reality. So therefore, you cannot escape who you are or who you are expressing yourself as. Ah, perhaps another way to refer to this is you cannot escape what you truly believe, for it will always, in some way, make itself obvious. If you will, in that sense, deny that belief and put it back—hide it from another portion of yourself—it will still, again, get in line, get to the front, and will present itself to you. So never can you escape the beliefs within you. Is that clearer?Participant: All right. Second question, ice number two. Referring to the two previous discussions—at least I think it refers to that—when we experience emotions such as anguish, anger, pain, sadness, are those emotions manifestations of non-allowance?Elan: Well, they are the manifestations of beliefs, which are generally limiting beliefs. So sadness or what you call grief would be an emotion that would, in that sense, only result if you had the belief that you could lose something to begin with. Anger is a little bit different, for anger is an emotion of alignment. Anger allows you to see in any given moment, "This is who I am, and this is absolutely who I am not." So therefore, it allows you to define yourself through differences. Where individuals then usually will allow it to degradate is to what you then call invalidation and judgment for the thing that has just shown them "this is not me." So anger in a sense would be a little bit different. Was there something else you were inquiring about?Participant: Um, to further this, if one is experiencing these emotions but chooses not to, do we follow the desire and allowance as you've out—Elan: Well, the idea is to allow yourself to glean what you believe to be feeling it, and if you are willing to hold, acknowledge that belief and change it, the new belief will have emotions that will replace the old. If, though, you deny that belief once you have traced it, again, perhaps you will continue to create it. So to answer your question directly: allow yourself to feel the feeling, then allow yourself to plug in specifically in that situation, specifically in that moment, what you must believe to feel that. Then look at the belief. "Ah, I do believe that. That is a limiting belief." Now you can begin to talk about changing or alternative beliefs because you have brought to your conscious awareness the limiting belief. Okay?Participant: Thank you. Is that usable, or more confusing?Elan: It's—it's complicated but usable.Participant: All right. Well, it is really quite simple. As you glean what you believe from an emotion, and you decide "I wish to keep that belief," go right ahead. If you, once you acknowledge a belief, decide you do not wish to have that belief, you simply, having acknowledged that old belief, call forth the new belief, allow your imagination to furnish a set of actions of how one with a new belief would act, and then walk into the situation that you usually would have acted the old way, and act the new way. It will get a different result, and your emotional feedback will then change. Perhaps that makes it more confusing.Participant: But sometimes there's always something holding me back to the original belief.Elan: Well, interesting idea. What could hold you back since everything is you? So, all right, now that you are holding you back, it is simply a matter of ceasing to force and conform, and letting go and allowing yourself. "Now that I know this is a concept, now that this makes sense to me, I will do this." Now, once you trace through what I have just described experientially, it will make a lot more sense to you, for then a belief will come up that is relevant to that moment rather than the general outline that I am laying out for you. Then perhaps, again, you will see experientially that what I am saying makes sense. But is it at least concise and clear? And if not, is there some question that you can formulate to clarify?Participant: Think I got it at this point.Elan: All right. Well, again, if not, check back in. All right, we thank you over there. Ma.Participant: Hello.Elan: Greetings.Participant: Greetings. Um, this topic was appropriate for me uh tonight. And what I want to ask you about deals with initially a book that I just read by Alice Miller called, um, The Drama of the Gifted Child, which pointed out to me, I think, the source of belief systems that interfere with my uh creating a life reference, or seem to continue to. And the—the... what this book said was that a parent who, for whatever reason, sends signals to the child that certain portions of them are not acceptable to the mother, then uh the child grows up feeling that only part of them is okay. And I see that um that that—that feeling that I'm in some way flawed or not okay or not good enough, uh, it gets in the—seems to be getting in the way.Elan: Well, only when you perpetuate it. And again, now that you have some insight into the mechanism, this is not something stored in your cells that you're stuck with. That is a perception, and there is some accuracy to the mechanism that that involves. However, it is not the only explanation. What I am saying is that each time you feel it, by definition, in that moment, you are recreating it. You are matching it. You are aware of an infinite number of things in your reality, but they do not all evoke what you call a response from you. When you have a response evoked, you, in that moment, are matching that. So you can always ground yourself back into that moment and ask yourself, "All right, what am I perpetuating right now?" And generally you will find, in even asking yourself that, jars if not all of those beliefs no longer apply to you, and it was simply a matter of dialoguing it.Participant: Yes, but okay, I do... uh, I—I think that I—I work really hard in trying to identify what the beliefs are that don't serve me, and often I'll—I'll bring...Elan: By the way, I will not allow it to slip by that you have "worked very hard at trying." Sorry. Well, do not apologize, but the point is that is exactly what you are doing, and in wording it that way, continuing to word it that way, you are reflecting to yourself, "I am still trying. I am still not 100% diving in."Participant: So by "try," do you mean when I say "try," it's like a belief that I can't succeed?Elan: Well, you are not even trying; you are working on trying. You are one step removed from even trying. So push that all aside and do it, period. Sounds like semantics, sounds like Elan being a cosmic wise guy again, and you can interpret it that way if you wish, but it is literal as well. So "try" reflects a belief that "I can't succeed." "Try" reflects an incomplete commitment; it reflects incomplete conviction. Therefore, fully commit, fully then act with full commitment and full conviction. Okay?Participant: Okay.Elan: And that little slight shift is the hump that you are creating.Participant: Okay. Well, let me use an example, right? Often uh I'm doing a consulting job right now that doesn't really excite me. It's—it's not really exactly what I want to do, but I think I created it to give myself the—the means to uh give me time and money to do what I'd really like to do.Elan: Well, while you are doing it, are you also then keeping your eyes very open for other opportunities that come along, or are you so engrossed in the process itself that they are passing you by?Participant: Well, the—the process itself requires a lot of my time and attention. That is why I'm asking.Elan: One of my fears is that that—that might happen, and I don't want it to. I don't want to shut myself off for more exciting opportunities. Then state to the universe, "I remain completely open," and do so. And that is all.Participant: Okay. There's still this job I have to spend many hours a day on to get it done, because there's a timeline, a time—a time deadline.Elan: Well, all right. I assume that you then mean that there is a date set for the completion of the work.Participant: Yes.Elan: Then what will you do? Perhaps that is more the point. You mean after the completion? Oh, yeah. Something more exciting. Oh, now understanding that you have chosen this situation, and understanding that perhaps you have slightly sold yourself short of your excitement, but you have entered agreements and you have, in that sense, exchanged integrity with other individuals—are you willing to entertain the thought that within the foundation that you have laid down are some exciting things, and begin to work within your structure of the things that do excite you within it?Participant: Well, I—I see—I see what you're saying. And—and the—the thing is, there are many things that—that I could do that—that excite me, but they're more specific things. But I have a real sense that uh with the way the world is changing now rapidly, that it's almost like I want to look and understand the big picture more before I'm—before I pick any specific area to get involved in, like solar energy or something like that. Before I get, perhaps, involved in that, I wanted to write something on the world economy, integrating the concepts that you're talking about, before I felt comfortable as to where I would fit in.Elan: Well, that is one approach. But the other approach is to simply say, "All right, here are my options. This one excites me," and dive into it. And then the other ones, because they are representative of who you are, will become more available as you are acting on the things that do excite you. Again, I remind you, simply grounding yourself, and from what is available, even with this agreement that you have in place, begin once again to factor in your excitement, and not work on it or try to do that, but simply do it.Participant: Okay. It has gotten a little more exciting as I've gotten some positive feedback on...Elan: Well, as in that sense you honor what does excite you from what is available, it inevitably will get much more exciting, not just a little. Okay?Participant: Well, the example that I wanted to use was, um, I have to—lots of times I have to sit, you know, work on this during the day, and um, I feel uh when I sit down and start to work on it, I start to get um the belief that I'm going to be rejected, and that makes me want to eat cookies or watch TV.Elan: Well, in that moment that you are doing the working, is there someone there evaluating you, yes or no?Participant: No.Elan: Therefore, it is irrelevant to that moment, and you are simply not reminding yourself of that. You are futuring.Participant: I—I—I understand that, and I realize.Elan: But what you are not understanding completely is that all—all you have to do—and I again understand this sounds too simple to be true—is stop doing that. Stop it. When you find yourself doing it, acknowledge it. Remind yourself, "All right, can someone evaluate this right now? Well, obviously not. Then why am I thinking about what someone will think about this? It is not relevant to what I am doing. All right, well, I had this idea, I entertained it, I push it aside." Then you will be regrounded to what is available.Participant: Well, I see how you... I know how you say that all beliefs are equal, and I know that I can choose to believe that I will be rejected and that I won't be rejected, and I—I would work better if I believed I wouldn't get rejected. But it seems that the belief that I will be rejected somehow is more powerful or more compelling, and I was thinking perhaps because I had already experienced rejection that it somehow seemed like that belief was stronger.Elan: Congratulations! Get away from it. Well, you have just nailed it down. Now, is that what you prefer to continue to embody?Participant: Absolutely not, but I have trouble getting away from it.Elan: Well, if you understand the equality of all beliefs, then you understand your equal access to acting according to either belief. So what you are not perhaps doing is calling forth the referential preferential you in those circumstances.Participant: Okay. Well, I have a hard... when I try to visualize the—I can visualize the preferential me that I—I want to be: someone that loves myself, stands in the moment, looks around and and loves what I create, what I create, and without feeling of reservation, just, you know, dive in and experience life. But the way I visualize myself, so I find is that I feel incomplete or...Elan: You are not, in that sense, expressing the mechanism that we are discussing, which is simply—to use your example—you are sitting there writing your report, an idea occurs to you that in that moment you may be rejected, and you begin, in that sense, to create what you call a paralysis. Then you remind yourself, "One moment. This is not what I prefer. I certainly don't prefer to go eat cookies either. Therefore, who am I? Well, right now I am being a person that acts hesitatingly because of the belief from rejection. But ultimately, what I am doing is stopping what I am doing—I am hesitating now."The referential preferential me has these characteristics that you have just so illustratively named. What would that referential preferential me be doing sitting at the same desk, having that same notion? Well, it is entertaining the notion, ah. It is understanding that it has for that moment expressed the belief. It is now formulating that it will, if it were to express the new belief, continue writing the report, and continue writing the report. You are assuming you do not have that much power. When you do that one single time, you will have overcome much of what you always, in that sense, in different forms discuss with us, understanding you have complete power in the moment. But the action is the ultimate expression. Nothing is stopping you from completing that report but notions and beliefs that you are handing yourself.Participant: It just seems that I get overpowered by these feelings of rejection, and I say, "Okay, I know I don't want to... I want to work on this, and I don't want to go turn on TV and eat cookies right now," and then I get up and do it, you know, the cookies. It's almost like—Elan: Well, you are saying that, "I understand what I do not want to do, and I will do it." That is also a choice. That is also conscious creator-hood as well, but set up in a way perhaps where you are using it as an excuse to perhaps, again, deny that what you have set up does not excite you. Okay?Well, there's the referential preferential you not just as a notion, but as a model for action, is the true answer to your question. For even demonstrating it to yourself but once can, in a sense, seem to reverse a tendency and show you, "Yes, I can write this report rather than watching television and eating the cookies, and still feel fulfilled."Participant: So—so you're saying at the moment when I'm—when I'm feeling like I'm going to get up and eat cookies, I don't want to... to call forth the referential preferential you, see what that you would do, and do that? Pick up the phone and call someone or something like—or take a walk or finish the report?Elan: Okay. Okay. The referential preferential you might also determine that what this is telling me is that in this moment I need a break. Therefore, my options are to watch TV and eat cookies, to, in that sense, complete this report, to call a friend, to go for a walk. Well, A and B do not excite me as much as C. I will call a friend. Ah, I am done talking to the friend. Do I wish to do this report? Well, here are my other options, none of them are very exciting. The report is actually the most exciting option. Your report is now done. But the point is to trust and allow your reality to be what it is, not what it ought to be.Participant: Okay, I will do that. Can—can I use one more example?Elan: All right.Participant: Um, regarding women... I really feel that at some point I would like to be married and—and have children. Um, why? Why? Because I love kids, and I—and I just... I sense on some level that I would really enjoy being in partnership.Elan: You have something to share in that sense. Yes, yeah.Participant: Yes. I—I would like to enjoy life with her as a child.Elan: Right, good reason. Proceed.Participant: The—the thing that blocks me though is when I try to visualize myself being married to someone, I can sometimes see the preferential me feeling grounded and—and solid and—and letting life come from me, choosing what I want and then sharing my life with someone as—as an equal partner. But a lot of times what I get afraid of, or what stops me, or the alternate vision that I often have, is of me kind of standing there alone in the world and needing someone to come and take care of me or complete me some way—almost like needing a mother.Elan: Well, those are the choices, those are the beliefs within you, as you have just stated. It would be inaccurate to say you believe one or the other. You believe both, and believing one gives you one reality, believing the other gives you another reality, believing both gives you a third reality, for you act both ways. What you mean ultimately... you only get the effect of either belief when you are acting like you believe it. So it is always in the moment to cease the continuance of those actions, call forth the preferential you, and insert new actions according to preference.It would be inaccurate to say that "I no longer contain the belief that I am needy." You always contain all beliefs. So knowing that you contain them all and they are all equal then allows you to see it is not a matter of getting rid of one belief and choosing another one, but that by focusing on one, the other is just simply now out of your experiential reality—but it has not gone anywhere. Ultimately though, what gives you the effect in your life is how you are acting. So when you picture yourself standing alone, understand in that moment you are acting like that person. And if you will simply call up the preferred reality, plug in those actions and begin to act that way, you will then feel that way.Participant: But it's—it's like as soon as I visualize the—the weak me or the needy me, I—I start putting myself down and say, "Oh, you've done it wrong," or...Elan: Well, that is the weak and needy you doing that. But in the next moment, you can simply shift your focus to the empowered you and have a little conversation. Your preference factors into this. There is no lot in life unless you create that apparency.Participant: But it seems like every time I hear the disapproving parental voice in my head, I—I put myself down and say, "You buy into it, you buy into it." And how do I—how do I get... it's like...Elan: Well, first of all, understand that you are buying into it. "I am buying a bill of goods." That in and of itself can shift the impact, for it brings it back to you. If you are feeling that way, you are buying into that, and it is simply then a matter of realigning to preference. "Do I prefer to feel this way? No. Do I really only disapprove and dislike myself? No. What are the other ways that I feel?" Call them up, bring them forth, and then watch, feeling that, how the preferential you now acts. It hands you a new set of actions. The performance of the new set of actions gives you new results, and you no longer can say, "This keeps happening." You are a sponge; you are absorbing this. Trust that and begin to understand—understand that your power lies not in speculation, not in preparation, but in the moment that it occurs. When you feel most helpless, that is when you have the most power to change.Participant: Why do I continue to feel like the world isn't—isn't safe for me though, like it's not...?Elan: Because you have not fully embraced what I am saying. But now you are beginning to entertain: when you feel the most vulnerable, you are displaying the most strength and showing yourself that you can handle anything. So remind yourself of that when you do so. While you are berating yourself, you can toss a couple of compliments in there as well. All right?Participant: Yeah, I think I'm going to get a cookie.Elan: Oh, you may all enjoy a short break. All right. I'll say "goodie, I get to choose the topic for the next interaction." The title will be: "Clarifying Your Vision." So maybe one of the things you will clarify are suggested topics beginning next month. Therefore, we will discuss the primary laying down of the vibratory foundation for proceeding in your reality: your vision. Allow me to proceed to exchange and allow this interaction to continue sharing.Participant: Following up on the last couple topics, the subject of allowance... when you and I had a private session a little while ago, which I must uh say thank you, that was a truly uh sensational session.Elan: We thank you as well.Participant: Um, you—you and I were discussing that it's time for you to take a leap of faith.Elan: Well, the idea being that that representative action would then result in initiating a new, shall I say, direction and tendency.Participant: Well, I was under the impression at that time, uh, immediately afterwards, that you were referring to specifically my living condition, but then I decided to expand that into more—Elan: Well, it did not only include that idea, but included that as well, yes.Participant: So I expanded that into more of my business life, took that leap of faith—you already know all this—um, with some extremely profound changes. Um, bagging a project that is enormous in scale and very exciting, for lack of a better term. Um, my—my question is that since everything is synchronicity and I have uh committed myself to taking a vacation in the next two weeks, this is raising an enormous amount of terror within my clients that I'm going to be gone for approximately half of the amount of time that is...Elan: Well, how exciting! The, shall I say, opportunity for them to explore what they must believe.Participant: And I've decided that since this opportunity has arisen, therefore I must be capable of handling it, and that I'm not allowing myself to feel that terror and decided that I am uh capable and intend that this project will go quite smoothly.Elan: Oh, congratulations! It absolutely will, no matter what happens.Participant: I don't think they would share your optimism.Elan: Perhaps. Perhaps for the time being, it will behoove you to simply mind your own business.Participant: Yes, and that is—that is why I am still continuing with vision.Elan: Now understand, at any time you can match their explorations, but much of that you have already worked through. So allow them to explore how the interaction affects them, but also, shall I say, remain grounded in your own effects and how your own lines are now being pushed further and further out.Participant: Yes. Um, but what you are actually doing...Elan: ...is increasing your ability to serve them optimally, so perhaps that reflection they may appreciate.Participant: Yes, they're—they're quite terrified, and I'm trying to convince them that there was no reason to be so.Elan: Well, I will let that "try" slip by.Participant: Thank you. A few nights ago, however, I had a very unusual dream that I think is now...Elan: Will it be unusual to me? Perhaps not. Will it be more unusual than dreams that you have already shared? Perhaps not, though do proceed.Participant: You're giving me a reputation. Well, um, all right. This—it is a positive one, yes. This one is actually a little more mundane. It's just hellfire and brimstone. Um, I was walking around a mountain and basically descended to what Dante would have probably defined as one of his lower forms of Hell. There was an enormous amount of fire and lots of evil little demons running around creating much havoc.Elan: An interesting, by the way, symbol of your own unconscious ideas, for again, everything in that dream is you. And when you are, in that sense, ascending—generally, there are exceptions, but within a dream—you are exploring your spiritual connection. When you descend, in general, you are exploring your grounded connection, but need not interpret that as you have in what you call hellish terms. Do proceed.Participant: Well, this... there was—there was a lot of unpleasantries involved, or I was at least witness to a lot of unpleasantries and really didn't want to um allow them to affect me.Elan: Ah! And did you find that to be possible?Participant: Yes.Elan: So you were aware of the negativity to its extreme degree without experiencing it? That is a transformational symptom. Do proceed.Participant: Thank you. I mean, I was quite surrounded by it, and there were a lot of people quite upset around me. And I might be answering my own question, but I was wondering how this might relate to the process that I'm undergoing directly. Well, is it—is it specifically that I am basically wading into my... was the dream representative of me wading into my clients' fears?Elan: Well, to some degree, it represented taking responsibility for their reaction, yes. But it was also being willing to explore within yourself and understanding that you no longer contain the notion that something exists within you that can overcome you, and again allowing you to have the opportunity to see that it is not your responsibility, other than to reflect that to them in your action—to be responsible for them getting that idea. And they will get it automatically anyway.Participant: Um, so I was just... there was... that dream mystified me for—for quite a bit.Elan: Well, you did a fine job in interpreting it in a usable way. Now again, there are other interpretations as well, which will more relate to directly your own exploration of your own ideas, hidden ideas, fears within, and so forth. But we had discussed at the beginning of this interaction for getting in touch with those fears and any idea you label negative, experiencing them, and through that experiencing, allowing the emotion to deliver the belief will now come in handy.Participant: Well, I think the—some of the other ramifications were my fear—allowing myself to feel their fear, and allowing myself to believe to some degree that this was going to be a problem, that I'd bitten off more than I can...Elan: But do understand that in no way and at no point did you feel their fear. It is impossible. You created—you matched—that fear within yourself, and that is all you can ever feel. So a reminder of that mechanism will allow you to recognize in that moment you are, in that sense, condoning the very thing within them. Then you have the opportunity to shift your point of view again. If—if you act according to the new point of view, you will be providing an alternative to them, which is the greatest service that you can provide in the situation—a non-insistent, alternative living example.Participant: Yes, um, and during our private session you said that I was going to be quite successful at doing that.Elan: Well, you already are. But what you are exploring here is not so much your perception of their fear—you are clothing it in that—but it is still the remaining fear within yourself. It's all right. Allow yourself to feel it, allow yourself to experience it, and in your case, you will find there is not so much left.Participant: The fear that I'm not capable of doing this project or these multiple simultaneous projects... um, okay. And does it not excite you to see yourself doing that, carrying it off?Participant: Yes.Elan: So that is your prerequisite. You have the ability.Participant: Um, directly related to that is the subject of this upcoming vacation, which, you know, is filled with an enormous amount of emotion. There are many—there are so many things that I could focus my attentions on on this particular uh period of time.Elan: Well, all of them now would simply be speculative, so allow yourself to begin right now being right here and now, and not focus on what's going to happen in 48 hours.Participant: Well, that does not mean that you cannot allow your desires to make themselves apparent, but then ground yourself to what's available. Entertain them if that is the most exciting option, but remind yourself what's right in front of you—all that is more relevant right now than speculating something which will not play out in the way you are assuming anyway.Participant: Um, I was going to ask if—if there was any particular aspect that I should focus on on these upcoming two weeks relative to the process that I'm currently undergoing.Elan: Well, I have just told you: maintaining the grounded focus in the moment. Take a vacation from pasting and futuring. And if the symbol is "once I step off the plane," or you set that there is a symbol past which point "I will be in the now," all well and good. Whatever it takes, but the idea is take a vacation from spending your now moments creating, recreating a past that you do not prefer and projecting a future which you prefer even less, and be here now. Or in this case, again, this gets confusing, but there then... thank you.Participant: Oh, thank you. Ice and to you.Participant: Greetings. I have several things I want to ask you about. Um, first of all...Elan: By the way, that sigh is another expression of allowance. What you call a sigh is the releasing into the flow, reestablishing the flow, so I thank you.Participant: I'd like to ask you about the significance of being offered a promotion this week at my work. I have no interest to do work that I—no real interest in. Well, what is the question? This is most obvious. What is the question, please?Elan: The idea is that you are presenting yourselves with alternatives and now beginning to see, as you say, if your colloquial money is where your mouth is. Are you going to do something which does not excite you to get the money to do something which does—and by that time, you no longer have any practice doing anything that excites you anyway? Or are you going to begin to look at what does excite you, and within the offer allow yourself to at least access within that offer what actually is exciting about it? Now, if it is something within the doing of the job, all well and good, go right ahead. If it is what the job will allow you to do, you may wish to skip a few steps and simply decide how you can do that now. So it is simply a matter of, again, commitment and willingness to decide: will I buy into the lifestyle where I am constantly getting money to do the things that excite me at the cost of my excitement, or will I begin to incorporate my excitement into what I'm doing, or will I begin to allow my excitement to show me a new direction? Very exciting precipice.Participant: Um, I wanted to talk about allowing the beliefs to come up that we've been discussing. I will allow it. Um, two weeks ago, um, a child came into my classroom who was um had obviously been severely and severely abused, and I need this... I had a very strong charge around this.Elan: All right, why?Participant: Because I was severely abused as a child.Elan: Ah, identification. Do proceed.Participant: And I—I found myself having this complete dichotomy within me. In the—during the day, I pushed the system as hard as it can be pushed, um, and really forced to get something done to help this child. And then when I would leave, I was like the adult during the day. When I would leave and go home, I would be steeped in my fear of being... and I—I went through a process of...Elan: Now, by the way, all you are doing is flushing this all to the surface. You are, however, doing so in a very creative way, for you are supplying yourself with the scenario that you can act upon now, whereas back then—part of what you recreate now about that supposed back then—was the seeming inability to act. So act, do what you can do, and as those fears come up, you can now bravely face them, for you now have the ability to do something in this situation.Participant: Yes, I... and I did see that—that I am powerful and that I can do. And I also... but I also experienced... this all started from getting a letter from my father, not having spoken with him in 20 years, and I decided I want to begin communicating with him again. And now I've been seeing things synchronistically happening in my life that allow me to experience my deepest fears about seeing my father, about what that was about.Elan: Well, that is all part and parcel, very directly, of what you are exploring.Participant: Yes, and I went to... last weekend I went through an experience of going down to the core belief about the—being victimized.Elan: Well, how brave!Participant: And what I got to is the second to last belief was, "I'm not love." And then I said, "Well, if I'm not love, then what must I believe?" And I don't...Elan: Ah, a contradiction of terms, but nevertheless a realization. An individual pondering their non-existence, how fascinating! But again, the point is when you put it out on the table rather than keep it obscurely in the closet, it no longer holds up to the light of day. And this is what I have been saying about when you nail down the belief that no longer serves you, there is a, shall I say, double effect. The A effect is, "I do believe that, obviously," but the B effect is, "This is no longer relevant to who I am, and the only weight that it held was me not acknowledging that it is no longer relevant to who I am."Participant: My desire is to keep the compassion and the love in my heart for children without, um...Elan: Well, that is automatic. Where it applies to you is where you are willing to nurture that aspect of yourself, the child within, and whatever that means to you. But the point is the outlook of the child: the openness without the, shall I say, attachment of the definition of vulnerability, the willingness to see the fascination, the willingness to challenge the reality to fascinate you. These are things within you that have never died, simply not been accessed. So it will come up in many ways, but understand that each time you formulate a connection to whatever your perception is of the child within and send love to that child, and simultaneously as that child feel that love, you are healing yourself. You are realigning, and a diseased state—a state where ease is not the natural flow—will simply, shall I say, reverse itself. But through acknowledgment and, again, perhaps in many ways in how you will judge your reality collectively, this will represent, in no uncertain terms, what you would call the bottom of your barrel. How exciting!Participant: It's been a very deep process. Um, I—I also have a question from a few sessions ago, um, two months ago.Elan: All right, a retroactive question.Participant: You were talking at that time about all—all truths or all beliefs being equal, and allows us to explore seemingly contradictory lines.Elan: Well, ultimately, this can be reexpressed through the statement that all truths are true to those who believe them.Participant: Okay. But—but my question is, are—are there absolute truths? In other words, you have come here and stated to us that you believe that All That Is loves each of us unconditionally.Elan: That is our understanding experientially, and that is what we experience in our framework—the portion of our framework that is quite similar to your own. So through our experience of this, we can share that this is so to you, and then you can choose to match it or not. But if you choose not to match in your reality that All That Is unconditionally loves you, perhaps you can say the paradox is All That Is continues to unconditionally love you anyway.Participant: So then I would say I would view that as saying that's an absolute.Elan: Well, in a sense, you can say it is one of the absolutes, yes. Perhaps we have narrowed our definitions to absolute, which is quite, shall I say, an all-encompassing word, down to three ideas.Number one: you exist, period. That is an absolute.Number two: all is one and one is all, everything is connected. This is a constant, this is an absolute.And number three: you experience the reality that you are the vibration of, sometimes referred to as "as you sow, so shall you reap." What you put out is what you get back. These are simply semantic renditions of the idea that you always experience the reality you are vibrating as in that moment. Now, this is instantaneous. What you get back is what you put out is an instantaneous expression, and this is not always understood. So therefore, this would represent, perhaps you can say, general principles that in one sense of the word would be absolute. Other than that, every other idea you consider "that's the way it is" is an agreement and part and parcel of an exploration—not a law, but a local effect.Participant: Given that, then, my terror of being victimized again has brought to—to me children that are being victimized, and an opportunity to act upon it, thereby understanding that you personally... are you listening? Can never be victimized again, no matter what. All right? That means in any situation that you ever attract, you will never act as a victim, therefore you will not get the same response as you did when you acted like one.Participant: Just have one last thing. I also had a dream I wanted to share with you.Elan: All right, though I do sense that this will not be the last. Proceed.Participant: Okay. Um, I had a dream that I went to the school where I work, and my principal said to me, "You have to go to a different place. Your classroom is in a different place now." And I said, "It is?" And he said, "Yes, you have to walk down this path. You can't take your car, and you have to walk barefoot." I said, "Okay." So I took off my shoes, and I walked down the path. And I walked for a very long time—it took me about 45 minutes—and I came out to a place that was by the ocean, and it was a farm there, and there were animals there, and there were children. And I was very pleased with myself for having created this dream.Elan: Well, you also exhibited, shall I say, a poignant point, and this is, perhaps somewhat humorously, that you are the path. You are not on a path, and because you are the path, wherever you walk is the path. You cannot be off of yourself. But what you have drawn yourself to is your connection to the natural aspects of this choice in physical reality—what you call nature, what you call children, but also in no uncertain terms what you call adults as well. Perhaps adults that are exploring that child.Participant: What was interesting to me about the structure of this dream was that I'm in a situation in my work now, and—and that is where I want to go, where I walked, and I—I have not seen how there could be a connection between—Elan: Ah, thanks.Participant: ...path as I was walking. And so I—I woke up smiling and laughing about how I had created the connection between the two.Elan: And understand, because all external reality is a reflection of internal reality, that you carry that scene around with you. That scene is nowhere to go to; that scene is something to bring into the moment regardless of if you are physically there. How you felt can always be called forth, and when you are feeling it, calling it forth in order to experience it, you are being it.That is why sometimes you do not all understand, but when we speak of calling up the referential preferential you, and you view what this you would do—perhaps, again, a little sneaky—but the idea is while, in order to view this, while you are viewing it, you are that you. It is an exercise in bringing forth that presentation of yourself. In order to imagine something, in order to call it forth, you are being it in the moment. And this is why you create an effect from your past: you call forth the past, you are not bringing anything from a past to the present, you are recreating an identification, you are recreating an effect in the present. The present is the only experiential time. Therefore, your power always lies in the present to cease to continue to do this through recognition, through awareness of the mechanism itself, and that is all it takes—as simple as that sounds. Will that suffice? We thank you. We will communicate again; that will not be the last, perhaps this evening. All right, proceed with sharing.Participant: Um, can you... I read recently about something called a Tesla experiment where, or someone... the theory was someone could extend an antenna from their home and draw enough energy from the atmosphere to meet all their power needs.Elan: Well, the idea being that there would also be, shall I say, a sending device that would create a frequency that can be tapped. It was not speaking of tapping the inherent electromagnetic field, but tapping a field that was created through a feedback system with an impulse, a circular wave, and the electromagnetic field of your planet itself.Participant: What—what powered the output to create the—the energy to be drawn in, what was it?Elan: Well, in other words, you would have what you call large transmission antennae and then various receptive analogies on, shall I say, whatever device will draw from the power, much as your radio waves sending and receiving.Participant: Is that a self-sustaining cycle though? Is more energy drawn in than needs to create the energy?Elan: In a sense, it is self-sustaining, but perhaps it is more the idea of demonstrating that what you call electricity can be transmitted wirelessly, and you will then find, again societally, that it is not necessary to send that pulse. There is actually a way to, shall I say, step up the frequency of the planet itself, but it demonstrated possibilities.Participant: How—how could we then draw electricity to power homes?Elan: Well, again, first of all, I draw your attention to your own literature upon your own planet, which exists to begin to experiment and attract the many ideas which already exist. And once you have experientially created a foundational understanding, I can then discuss things which do not exist upon your planet, but it will require, shall I say, some input from you.Participant: Okay, um, so for now, research into what already exists, if that excites you, will be of assistance.Participant: You have a lead or a name, as Tesla...?Elan: Well, Tesla as well. You will find through patented material and so forth, and various societies, that many of the quote-unquote "suppressed" notions can at least be accessed as a concept.Participant: Okay. Um, a question about channels... I read something and I—I felt it... about half of what the channel was saying intuitively felt right to me, and the other half felt wrong.Elan: Oh, I wonder.Participant: It seems that the stuff that you say intuitively at least to me seems very accurate and loving.Elan: Well, that is a perspective, but thank you.Participant: From—from other—from other stuff, channels like in this Connecting Link magazine I read, uh, there was some stuff that I thought didn't seem quite as loving or it seemed judgmental, or it seemed to be stating the future, and I know as you said, there's no such thing as a prediction.Elan: Well, that is the prediction of one of the probable futures which, again, is somewhat arbitrary since there are an infinite number. But we point your attention to the preferred probable future so you can set those up as a template, whereas those operate on, perhaps you can say, dated methodologies, dated belief systems—that change could only come with great, shall I say, cataclysm.Participant: Oh, well, that—the part that I liked about it is that they said the change that this planet is going through, our evolution, doesn't have to happen with a lot of trauma, like California doesn't have to fall into the ocean.Elan: Oh, absolutely not! It is not likely that it will, but it is likely that some pressure will be released in that area. Okay.Participant: The question I had about channels though was that it seemed... I was wondering if a channel is saying something that's judgmental or that is—is a statement of fact about the future, which is impossible, is it because they've hooked up to a spirit that somehow isn't clear, say as clear as you appear to be to me, or because that—and/or because the channel has their own issues that are getting in the way and they...?Elan: Well, what you are saying as B—channel having own issues—will be the only thing that could allow an entity, in that sense, who was not well-meaning, were such a thing to exist, could only express itself through an individual with enough belief to attract it. So it is either that idea or purely the filtration of the belief system of the channel, one or the other. Now understand, again, that there are very strong preconceptions that you will create in your lives, and this applies to the many channels. So in general, you will hear a flavor from those beliefs. If those beliefs are very limiting, if those beliefs are very negative, it will in general translate into the information as overtones of limitation and negativity.Participant: So when I'm reading something like that, use discernment and just take—take what seems right to me and...Elan: Well, in a sense, I would perhaps suggest that you view it as a very large grab bag, and if you do not like what you have gotten, put it back. But the idea is that they are all equal. Even the things that you in no way, shape, or form prefer to experience are absolutely equal to everything else, and part of the, shall I say, process that allows you to choose what you want to do is to grant validity to the thing you do not.There is a tendency to simply continue the idea to believe that a belief that you do not prefer has more weight than one that does. Now, that in of itself is a belief, but it is also an expression of not acknowledging the limiting belief. For the acknowledgement of it is your saying, "I can handle it. It is not bigger than me. I am willing to look at it on equal terms." Then choosing a new and acting according to the new idea gives more weight to the new idea experientially.Participant: Um, one of—one of the things that I wasn't sure about on this—this channel thing that I read was uh the transformation that—that we're in... it said something—something like 5% of people that don't want to transform are going to go to some...Elan: You know, that is an arbitrary figure. But understand, you can only experience the reality that you are the vibration of, and individuals have the full free will to choose not, in that sense, to even transform to fourth density. They get a reality—they are not the only ones in exile in reality—therefore, their apparency is that the Earth will continue to be a limited Earth. Your apparency is that, "I have not seen them in a long time. Where have they gone?"Participant: Okay. Um, also one of the things that I'm sensing is that in hearing that, that we're approaching a very kind of precipitous shifting in—in our power structures...Elan: Well, may I ask you a question?Participant: Yes.Elan: Is it not completely evident, no matter what your preconceived idea is, that you are firmly within that? Even utilizing external feedback upon your planet at this time, you are obviously in a major transformation. There is nothing so mysterious about this. So the question becomes, how do you wish to create your participation in it and therefore your experience of it?Participant: I want to... individually, I want to follow my excitement, but part of my excitement is to be a part of helping the transformation move in a loving way.Elan: Well, understand that that will be what you accomplish, but only for the individuals who choose to do that. And you have absolutely no responsibility or any ability to control at all the individuals who do not. So understand you have become, by choice, a specialist, and allow your specialty to attract those who it will serve, not taking responsibility for those who choose something else. Okay?Participant: And—and one—one last question...Elan: Well, for now, allow that to sink in. Okay? Perhaps we will share again this evening; it will depend. But trust and allow that to sink in. All right? Thank you.Participant: Thank you. Thank you.Elan: We therefore, again once again and for the first time, thank you for your willingness to co-create this ecstatic interaction with us. It is our desire to continue to act with you in this way, and therefore our allowance that it will occur. We have no insistence, but again, the desire, in that sense, leads us to continue to co-create these interactions with you at this time.We thank you for your willingness to expose yourself to yourself as you do, and own what you already believe so you then can change it if you so desire. Do not in the process, however, forget that there are many things you already believe which you love and that you can use them—it is not that you are completely functioning from dated beliefs. So recognize where you already utilize the empowered beliefs, and use that as a reinforcement when you change through acknowledgment any other beliefs.Honor your desire and relax your grip.