---
heading: Part 1
title: "Being Your Natural Self"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1997-03-16
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 135
tags: ['doubt']
---



## The Natural Order of Being

**Bashar:** We would like to begin by asking: what would happen if nature did not allow itself to function naturally? 

What if, just suppose, just imagine, one day the birds decided they were doubtful they could sing, the flower decided they were afraid to open, the bees were not sure they could fly and so thought about it instead of doing it? You would have a lifeless world.

The idea is to take your cue from the nature that appears around you instead of doubting your natural self. Follow your joy, act on your passion, be who you are - or you will be like the bird who doubts they can sing, the bee who doubts they can fly, the flower who doubts they should open or grow, the sun who doubts it should shine. Just think what a catastrophe that would be for life on your world.

Each and every one of you, however, have experienced in your reality the doubt about being yourself - your true and natural self. Doubt and fear over whether or not you should express who and what you really are at heart. Live your dreams to the fullest in a natural, automatic, in a sense almost instinctive way, and spend as you have been taught much of your time pondering whether or not to be yourself. To be or not to be - that is your dilemma.

If you would but simply choose to be in the same natural way the bird sings, the bee flies from flower to flower, and the flowers are willing to open and shine their beautiful brilliant garden of colors that make your world the garden that it is or can be.


## The Interconnected Garden of Life

**Bashar:** Each and every one of you, like a flower part of the garden, like a bee in communication and sharing, going to and fro, back and forth, pollinating each other with ideas, with energy, being yourself, singing your song like the bird, expressing who and what you know yourself to be in your natural true core being - bring life to your section of the world.

Be natural instead of normal and allow yourself to become that part of nature that your world shows and reflects to you exists within you every day.

The idea, of course paradoxically, is that any ecological disastrous, catastrophic experience you have on your planet with regard to nature is a direct reflection of you not being your natural selves. And so that which you have taken from yourselves, you take from the nature around you. You only in that sense cause the ecological imbalance because the imbalance is already within you.

Balance yourselves, be yourselves, you will know then how to relate to yourselves and to the idea of nature, how to be one with it and in it and of it and responsible to it. As you become one in and of and responsible to yourselves, it can all work in harmony as it was designed to be. For only by not being your natural self do you create the possibility of experiencing the struggle and pain that you experience on your planet and create the apparent ability to not fit, the seemingness that you don't fit, that you don't belong, that other things then you assume don't belong.

It all is one thing. It all is one thing. You all are one thing manifesting and expressing itself in a variety of infinite ways in diversity to enjoy and enrich and expand itself in all the ways that are possible in your domain of reality. Play your part, be who you are, lend your voice, lend your song, lend your light so that there do not have to be experienced the dark shadows in which you can pretend to hide what you fear most about yourselves.



### The Nature of Doubt and Self-Trust

**Asker:** I had a flash of doubt this week about my abilities as a writer.



**Bashar:** Doubt Is trusting in a 100% trust in what I don't want. 

What a definition that doesn't work for you, right? A definition that doesn't work. All right.

**Asker:** And I realized that um even though some of my material had been um rejected or passed on by this company that had no effect on who I was and that I'm very proud of my work. All right. And it just meant to me that um some other company was the one that it was meant to go with, different other ones perhaps.


### The Illusion of Psychic Readings

**Asker:** And I was curious - I know that um that predictions are only of the moment and they are likely to change. Yes. And I had a psychic reading back in February and I was wondering if you were able to give me an accuracy of the percent of that reading as it stands at this moment.

**Bashar:** Is it still February?

**Asker:** No.

**Bashar:** I mean zero.

**Asker:** Okay okay.

**Bashar:** Every moment you create your reality a new. It is that understanding you really need to have in order to understand why the answer is zero. Then understanding that readings or predictions change moment to moment.

**Asker:** Yes. Is there any way you can give me um a reading of where I am at this moment?

**Bashar:** You are 100% whatever you are deciding to be. Mhm. What are you deciding to be? That's the question. What other reading can I give you other than your assessment of yourself in clear honest self-communication? You tell me who you are right now - you don't have to literally do it, it is rhetorical to some degree - but that is the point. I cannot give you a reading of where you are since you are Infinity. Where can I say you are on a line that is infinite except always where you are? You understand?

**Asker:** Uhhuh.

**Bashar:** This may seem cryptic, may seem poetic, may seem philosophical, but it is also quite literal. You are in some senses giving away the power by asking me to make the assessment for you, in the same way that you gave yourself an opportunity to experience how you had given away your power in terms of reacting to what other people think of who and what you do and who and what you are. Make sense?

**Asker:** Yeah.

### True Support Through Passion

**Bashar:** So remember, it isn't even about the idea that it's meant to be in another company. It is about the idea of doing what you do because that's what you love to do and allowing your reality to reflect to you in whatever way, shape or form is representative of the path of least resistance, of simply allowing you to be who you are without the idea that it must do this or it must do that. You do what you do because that's what you love to do.

**Asker:** Well I do it and I love it, but at the same time I would like to be supported by it.

**Bashar:** Yes. You will be supported by it when you do it only because you love it. If you do it because you love it but because you also need to be supported by it, it cannot support you because you need it to. If you do it because you love it because it's who you are and follow your excitement at any given moment, then whatever it is your excitement leads you to will in some way shape or form support you. But you must let go of your idea of what support is supposed to mean. You must relax your conditions on what support is supposed to look like, otherwise you cannot receive support as it may actually come. You may not see support for what it is because you think it has to look a certain way and wear a certain suit, and thus you cannot necessarily recognize real support work when it happens.

Sometimes, for example, in a sense that someone may not want to participate in something you have done can be a form of support because they are supporting you moving in the direction that is actually representative of who you actually are - supporting what you have deemed yourself to be, what you have defined yourself to be. So in that sense it is support. But if it is a certain type of support you're looking for, a certain expectation of support, then you will not allow yourself to recognize support is already with you all the time because the only support any of you actually need is the support to be yourself, period, no matter how that may come.

So of course yes, be persistent, persevere, but not in the sense of struggle. The idea again at any given moment is to simply make the assessment: am I doing what I really, really, really love to do? Not because of what you think it will get you, not because of what you think it must do to support you, simply - do I have any other choice? Is there anything else I would rather be doing? If the answer is no, then just keep doing whatever it is you find most exciting for its own sake and let your reality guide you without expectation. Do not disappoint yourself from the driver's seat - reappoint yourself and stay there no matter what anyone else decides.

**Asker:** Do you understand?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Asker:** Is this helping you?

**Bashar:** It is, thanks.

---

## SESSION TWO: UFOs, HYBRIDS, AND ALIEN CONTACT

### The Gray Computer System and Hybridization

**Asker:** Yes, and another area - another area I've been reading um Visitors Within by Whitley Strieber. Can you give me an approximate accuracy?

**Bashar:** No, I will not. And in fact unless we decide from now on to do that, we will never answer those questions from this point.

**Asker:** Um I was curious about the the Grays talk about this mass computer that yes that they pick up readings from people and that's why they do the so-called abductions from some kind of computer system. Why they do it no I'm just asking about that - is that an accurate uh assessment or was it the channeler's interpretation of what they were saying?

**Bashar:** It is in a sense accurate, although you must understand that what to them is a computer may not be a computer to you. It is an aspect of their mass mind, their hive mentality, their mass intelligence. It does express itself in a certain physiological way, but it is nothing that you would recognize as a computer. So in a sense yes it is accurate, but you may be interpreting it in a way that is not necessarily representative of what it actually is in their reality. You follow?

**Asker:** So I didn't really think it would be equal to our computers but do they have some sort of a machine or is it a telepathic signal that they receive from an individual?

**Bashar:** Both. There is a type of biological neurological network that functions in a sense as a machine, but it is not exactly a machine as you understand it. It is to some degree biological.

**Asker:** Okay. And I understand that they make blends of our DNA with their DNA to create the hybrids. Is there an across the board percentage of how much is human DNA?

**Bashar:** You love percentages don't you?

**Asker:** I'm just curious if if it's um a formula that they've reached or is it each individual child is unique?

**Bashar:** Yes. There is a window, a range of mixture that they believe works best for their agenda and their purposes, but within that range and within that window there are differences. It will depend on many things. Is that sufficient?

**Asker:** Yes.

### The Authenticity of the Alien Interview Video

**Asker:** And yes, lastly um there was uh this week a a brief um clip of an inter of a video that's coming out about supposedly a an interview with an alien that our government had which was videotaped or a group of aliens. Is this a an accurate portrayal or is it a hoax that this video is?

**Bashar:** It is an accurate portrayal. It is not an actual event. It is however an accurate recreation, similar to the alien autopsy. And that that would that that is less accurate, this is more accurate then. This is more of an accurate recreation. It is not the actual event but it is an accurate portrayal.

**Asker:** So did this man Victor that presented this video did he have access to the actual event and then he recreated it on a video or was he just making it up from a telepathic communication?

**Bashar:** That individual was not present at the actual event. The individual does not even necessarily know that it is a portrayal though there are indications that he might. But nevertheless, it is an accurate portrayal, but a portrayal only.

**Asker:** Will we um in the near future get to see end of conversation?

**Bashar:** You good day.

---

## SESSION THREE: AWAKENING SYMPTOMS AND ENERGY SHIFTS

### The Face on the Wall

**Asker:** And then you number two - do you know who you are?

**Bashar:** All right.

**Asker:** Number one good day.

**Bashar:** Hi Bashar hi.

**Asker:** Okay I wanted to ask you is that little face on the wall in my bedroom an alien?

**Bashar:** Define it and describe it.

**Asker:** It has well it the face looks just like I don't know the name of I don't know if it's the Grays or the hybrids with the big eyes and the little nose.

**Bashar:** In what way does this face appear to you? In what manner do you perceive this? What is the nature of the manifestation is what we are asking.

**Asker:** Well like it seems like something's watching me or or just keeping observing me.

**Bashar:** Yes. When you say the face on my wall, you are talking about a phenomenology that is not always there or something that is always there?

**Asker:** Well it's a part the wall or an energy perception. It's a part of the wall physiologically.

**Bashar:** Yes. Then in that sense you can understand that as part of the wall it cannot be what you would call an actual alien. Nevertheless, it may be that it is triggering in you memories of actual encounters and experiences. You understand?

**Asker:** Yes because I just noticed it was there just the other day so I mean I didn't I don't know.

**Bashar:** That is simply an indication that your mind is now capable of shall we say in your language wrapping itself around more conscious awareness and remembrance of experiences that you are having, and therefore it is allowing itself to see in the patterns in your wall something that will remind you that you've had these encounters. Understand?

**Asker:** Yes.

### Dizziness and Energy Upgrades

**Asker:** Yes okay my second question has to do with the very first channeling experience that I sat in on. The next day I got a really really dizzy spell.

**Bashar:** Yes. This is common as individuals will allow themselves to open up new energy centers, allow more energy through themselves. Sometimes it will literally have the experience of being disorienting because you are not used to handling that level of energy. It does literally disorient you momentarily until you get used to it and reconnect to your new orientation. This is a very common symptomatology of new energy flow, of awakening to new levels of awareness and consciousness. Don't worry about it.

**Asker:** Okay what it lasted to weeks so that's why I was really.

**Bashar:** It is still a common symptom. Sometimes in your world it takes time to get used to new levels of energy.

**Asker:** And then and at times I felt like I was vibrating on like a pulsation type.

**Bashar:** Yes, this is what we are saying - you are upgrading your energy frequency. You are allowing yourself to be operating on a higher level, a higher pitch so to speak, and that can be disorienting to the way that you are used to perceiving your reality and yourself until you get used to it.

**Asker:** I see. I'm just I'm just trying to catch up with myself.

**Bashar:** With you're not trying - you are okay. But yes, in your reality again because you think as a society in terms of polarity and dichotomy, then you create a difference yes between the idea of the old old self and the new self, and that difference you create is what creates the disorientation for however long that lasts. You follow?

**Asker:** So yes euphemistically yes you are trying to catch up to yourself, but only because your society teaches you that you have two different selves and that one needs to catch up. Okay this is just a projected idea, but because you think of it as a real reality you experience the consequences of thinking of yourself in that way as an old and a new self that needs to be caught up to. The more you think of yourself holistically, the more you are willing to change instantaneously and trusting that all those things are a part of you, the less difference you will create within the idea of yourself and the less often you will experience that kind of disorientation. You will simply then experience it as revelation, inspiration, instantaneous recognition that you've made a shift, but there will be no disorientation - there will only be elation. You follow?

**Asker:** Yes.

### Remote Viewing and Resonance Identification

**Asker:** And that's great and what anything else? Yes. And okay um third question is um that last relationship that I had with my ex-boyfriend - was that remote viewing he was doing because he seemed to know everything that was going on in my life whether he was physically present or not?

**Bashar:** This is not so much exactly the idea of remote viewing although there is an aspect of that there. Anytime any individuals are connected in vibration, anytime they are as you would say in your language on a similar wavelength, you understand, then you will create the same understanding at the same time, you will have the same kind of thoughts at the same time, and that can act as a methodology for allowing one individual to know what another individual is experiencing at that moment because you are operating on the same wavelength. It's simply called resonance identification. And in a sense that is to some degree the secret to remote viewing in that you have to resonantly identify to some degree with whatever it is you need to see in order to be able to see it, because what you're doing is creating your version of that image and that experience within your own energy by identifying with it strongly enough to match the frequency of that person, place, thing, location, or what have you.

**Asker:** I didn't feel like I was doing it with him.

**Bashar:** No, so that doesn't mean he can't do it with you. He can identify with you even though you may not necessarily reciprocate. You understand?

**Asker:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** It all has to do with intention and focus and an array of other ideas emotionally. Nevertheless, in a sense it is like unto the idea of or can be said to be a form of remote viewing, but it is not so much viewing as it really is simply junctioning resonance identification, telepathic bonding in a sense. You follow? Simply matching someone's frequency in the same way that you match the frequency of a program on your TV set and therefore that's the program you see because that is the channel you have tuned to.

**Asker:** Okay I get.

**Bashar:** Does that make sense to you?

**Asker:** Yes it does.

**Bashar:** Does that help you?

**Asker:** Yes, thank you.

---

## SESSION FOUR: FAMILY SOUL CONNECTIONS AND ALIEN OBSERVATIONS

### The Massive Observation Craft

**Asker:** Yes well it's wonderful to be here Bashar.

**Bashar:** We are very happy that you are happy you are there.

**Asker:** Oh yes I think we all are. My son made a a statement today that I found very interesting. I I'm delighted that he and I'm delighted said it. Thank you. He said that uh he believes that his daughter and uh my other son's daughter whose name is Amy and John the speaker and myself are all part of one soul. All right, and so I thought that was really interesting. Do you have any comments about that?

**Bashar:** Nope.

**Asker:** Okay. Next item - uh there was an anomalous uh mass so-called anomalous mass yes quite large apparently said to be some 25 miles in length in the troposphere two nights ago yes. Could you tell us about this?

**Bashar:** It's quite interesting. It was passage of an observation craft.

**Asker:** Uh would you care to tell more please?

**Bashar:** You were being observed. Your world in general, not you specifically.

**Asker:** Okay. Can you tell us who was doing the observing?

**Bashar:** Those who were observing.

**Asker:** Well I figured that out but I mean can you no okay.

**Bashar:** There another cryptic evening.

**Asker:** Okay is not cryptic okay we find that the word no is very clear.

**Bashar:** Okay that that's true.

**Asker:** Well when I was uh driving down the road today I decided to um I I had an image of a cell division.

**Bashar:** One Moment One Moment One Moment One Moment. We are receiving more information from what they have observed.

**Asker:** Wonderful.

**Bashar:** They were making an assessment and attempting an energy balancing act with regard to buildup of what you would call tectonic or seismic stress in that area. Do you understand?

**Asker:** I do.

**Bashar:** That was the purpose for that positioning and it acted to some degree as a safety valve.

**Asker:** Oh that's wonderful. I'm really happy to hear that. Please give them a big kiss for us.

**Bashar:** All of them.

**Asker:** Why not.

**Bashar:** Why not, you're perfectly capable.

**Asker:** I know, thank you.

### Crystals and Atlantean Connections

**Asker:** Okay um well that's really uh the other day I was going to um a gathering and I I grabbed a large clear crystal in my hand and held it above my head and made a very powerful statement and the day just went swimmingly. And I'm just wondering am I I know you're going to say I am using the crystal properly because that's what I decided to do, but I'm do you have any do you have any hints for me as to how I might enhance what I'm doing?

**Bashar:** Yes. Don't ask. Just tell.

**Asker:** Okay. What you know to be true.

**Bashar:** I want to tell you something else. Uh about about a year or so ago I was playing around having a good time with some sticks and making what I call Dream Walker kind of uh sticks and I put a great purple crystal in the top of one just because I thought it was really pretty and I had fun doing this. Yes. Well then recently I've read that I think I don't know Atlantis or loran Atlantis. It is collection of things that you were doing in Atlantean times so to speak.

**Bashar:** Yes. Can I do it again with this object or do I need a different kind of crystal?

**Bashar:** You can utilize it to a similar degree and in a similar fashion. It will never be the same because the energy of your world is not the same, but you can to some degree utilize it as a trigger or reflective mechanism to put you in touch with vibrations that will for shall we say lack of a better term have the same general effect in your reality based on who you chose to be now. Does that make sense to you?

**Asker:** Uh yes I believe it's very valuable and I'll uh I'll enjoy using that. Thank you.

### Fear and Frequency Alignment

**Asker:** Um in uh an area in I believe it's Arizona some time ago I was um driving around and I decided that this red cinder cone Mountain was most intriguing to me because most lava is dark and this is red. I think it's in the Flagstaff area as I remember, and I was going up this Mountain Road and all sudden I just just had this terrible fear kind of like in that other Mountain Pass and I decided I had to get out of here really fast. Oh all right. And I'm wondering my question is when I experience that sensation does that indicate to me that there was at some time in my life an experience that has not a pleasant memory and that's why I'm getting that.

**Bashar:** Oh one oh well I know but I'm saying when I have that feeling is that am I accurate in what I think I'm.

**Bashar:** It is not always indicative an unpleasant experience. No, it can be in your terms a recollection of something that you find or label unpleasant. At the same time it can simply be that you allow yourself to recognize that the particular frequency of energy that that symbolizes may be something that is simply in some way shape or form out of kilter or out of alignment with your own frequency. Or actually the reverse - sometimes something will give off a certain frequency and because you are out of alignment with it or with yourself, it will amplify the misalignment within you and allow you to have exactly the same kind of feeling regardless of whether any memory of any so-called incident is attached to it or not.

**Asker:** So that could be powerful in telling me that I'm not in alignment with it.

**Bashar:** It can be for a number of different reasons, and it's up to your discernment to use it as a tool to meditate on it and see what you get with regard to these ideas or any other idea that might crop up in your imagination as to what that feels might be from. Always assume that there might be more than one way that that feeling can be generated, and you will then in those circumstances allow your imagination to guide you in looking at all the possible ways that such a thing might have come about, and that will give you more insight into all the different aspects and facets of your consciousness. You follow?

**Asker:** That's really valuable. I thank you.

**Bashar:** Because I will again remind each and every one of you that in all likelihood you will find relative to the time period you are occupying now and your history, almost anything will in some way shape or form at some time have happened to you. You follow?

**Asker:** I do I do.

**Bashar:** So you can really use these things very multi-dimensionally in a number of different ways to see many different sides of yourself instead of simply assuming that it only has one positive angle.

**Asker:** Okay follow yes. Then my that sort of knocks out my next question.

**Bashar:** Why thank you.

**Asker:** Okay um well then thank you thank you for a wonderful time.

**Bashar:** You you you good day.

**Asker:** Good day Bashar. You are number two male. You know who you are.

**Bashar:** Male male yes.

---

## SESSION FIVE: THE MECHANICS OF REMOTE VIEWING

### Detailed Explanation of Remote Viewing

**Asker:** There you are number two. Hello Bashar. My question is in regards to remote viewing. Could you describe in detail how remote viewing works?

**Bashar:** Did I not just do that uh um a moment ago?

**Asker:** Not to my satisfaction.

**Bashar:** Oh all right. Um also if uh can you tell me if remote viewing will eventually or shortly evolve to be used effectively without the use of the written protocols.

**Bashar:** Second question first - yes. Shortly, I feel uh within the next two decades.

**Asker:** When oh absolutely yes.

**Bashar:** Okay and also of course do understand that there are individuals on your planet now and have been individuals in your past that instinctively understand remote viewing and do not need any kind of protocol - they simply go right into it.

**Asker:** Okay.

**Bashar:** It would also still be termed remote viewing as opposed to the protocols designed by the US military. Ultimately the idea will again more simply simply be understood as viewing, as again identification as junctioning. There will be many different ideas that all say the same thing.

And again to go into a little bit more detailed explanation: there is a paradox to this. The paradox is that the reason remote viewing works is because there's no such thing as anything that's actually remote - everything is one, everything is here, everything is now. The idea holographically is that if you can, as we had said a moment ago, junction or identify with a particular frequency that is representative of a place, time, person, or what have you, since everything is based on frequency of energy even location, you can then understand that that location in essence not to confuse your language is actually not over there but here just like everything is.

And so by identifying with it, you allow yourself to some degree to participate in it here because it is here. You allow yourself to experience that location within yourself. It is not actually remote viewing - it is viewing from another angle Here and Now by identifying with it so strongly, by picking up on the correct frequency so accurately that you call forth from the collective now that particular angle, that particular perspective, that particular experience, and can then reproject it as if it were actually over there, but you know it really is not.

**Asker:** That's a little bit more of an explanation. Does that make sense to you so far?

**Bashar:** Yes it does.

**Asker:** Does that help illuminate the idea a little bit more clearly for you?

**Bashar:** Then more so today than yesterday.

**Asker:** Oh right. Is other aspect of this you wish further clarification?

**Bashar:** Um just could you tell us a few uh remote viewers from our past.

**Asker:** Name a few names.

**Bashar:** They were actually remote viewing as we know it today. Unlike Jesus, Buddha, Krishna, many many others that you would call ascended masters. Even many indigenous people naturally can in your terms remote view what you call shamans. Sometimes it is very natural for many children to simply do this instinctively because they have not yet been taught how not to, because they instinctively know everything is here and now and one, everything in that sense is real to them, therefore it's very natural for them. You will find if you will take the time - I'm not saying you have to do this, but if you will generically take the time any of you to do your research - you will find constantly that your adults are shall we say knocking down the idea of what children say they see, of what they experience that are in your terms at a distance.

Also any individual under certain circumstances and conditions such as that which requires a great overwhelming need or desire will instantaneously spontaneously remote view, such as cases where you know that a mother instantaneously knows that her child is in danger many miles away. You follow?

**Asker:** Yes.

**Bashar:** These kinds of things are simply trigger mechanisms. These states of being are simply trigger mechanisms that allow you in a sense to get out of your way in terms of creating the reflective structure of physical reality illusion and allow yourself to collapse that whole thing into the true here and now and simply see and experience only that aspect in totality that is germane to the frequency you happen to be on at that moment.

This is the very fundamental underpinnings of all such things as telepathy, remote viewing, psychic functioning, what have you. It's all basically stemming from the same thing and that is resonance identification. Because space and time are just concepts that are only different by the frequency they exhibit. Location is not really over there - location is a frequency idea. An object doesn't actually exist in a particular location literally. Location is one of the properties of the object, one of the properties of the equation, the vibrational equation that you translate in physical reality terms as an object over there, but that's just an equational projection.

In the same way that you have a reflection in a glass mirror - you know in a sense the reflection is not really over there because the reason you see it is say all the light's coming back to you here. It's not really over there - there's nothing in the mirror. The mirror holds on to none of the light, and that's why you see the reflection which is actually here.

**Asker:** Make sense?

**Bashar:** Yes so yes it does. Thank you very much.

**Asker:** Does that help you?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Asker:** Number two and to you good day.

---

## SESSION SIX: MILITARY ALERTS AND UFO FLAPS

### Cheyenne Mountain Alert

**Asker:** Been uh in in the news that uh in the news a high state of alert of military High state of alert for some reason and and they've sealed up Cheyenne Mountain the NORAD headquarters. Yes. Do you have any knowledge about what's happening?

**Bashar:** Yes. That's nice.

**Asker:** Could you tell me anything about it?

**Bashar:** One moment. You'll find that some individuals became aware of an acceleration in the agenda that you would call extraterrestrial. They have created a standard alert pattern for whenever they recognize the idea of what you call a new wave or flap of UFO visitation, such as what was recently described as the 25 mile long object off your San Francisco coast. And they have recognize that these happen at certain times due to observational drift - is what would translate into your language as our concept - and they have begun to recognize when these patterns come about and when there might be an increase in visitation and observation, and they have for some time simply gone on standard alert. The fact that you are simply becoming aware of the fact that they are on standard alert - that is what is new. They have gone on standard alert at many of these occasions for quite some time. You follow?

**Asker:** Yeah. Does that help you?

**Asker:** Uh yeah. Is that related to a lot of the UFO sightings over Arizona in the last uh month?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Asker:** Is that sufficient?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Asker:** Thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you. You good day.

---

## SESSION SEVEN: HEALING CHALLENGES AND SPIRITUAL DIAGNOSIS

### Autistic Child and Magnetic Field Repair

**Asker:** Good day. I have three thank you uh three people I'm working with that I would um like some help with.

**Bashar:** People that you are working with? Yes. In what capacity?

**Asker:** There's a child with uh an autistic condition. Yes. I have facilitated a repair in the magnetic field.

**Bashar:** In what way? By what methodology?

**Asker:** I would say it would be the uh through the um the help of William Gray and and I get the indication that the repair is in progress to some degree.

**Bashar:** You have accelerated certain ideas but there may need to be further adjustments, further experiences that will allow for a full knitting to occur.

**Asker:** All right. Right now I get that uh 70% of the problem with a child has to do with the magnetic field.

**Bashar:** Well that may be an effect that may be reinforcing the initial causations. It is not the initial cause per se. No. But it is an effect that does need balancing so that it does not continue to reinforce and amplify the condition.

**Asker:** Yes. And that there is a metabolic condition that can be addressed with um yes. But what about the emotional ones?

**Bashar:** Oh yes. What are you doing for that or what is being done for that by someone?

**Asker:** This is an area that um I'm perplexed with, perplexed about relative to the child directly.

**Bashar:** Why are you allowed to hold the child?

**Asker:** The child uh uh voluntarily touched me. I think I might be able to - this will be a sign of reparation, and the more that the physical contact can occur then there will be an acceleration of reparation as well.

**Bashar:** Very good.

### Persistent Cough and Locational Shift

**Asker:** Very good. My most exasperating case is seated beside me on my uh.

**Bashar:** Exasperating? Yes. Do you mean exciting?

**Asker:** Uh that too.

**Bashar:** It is one or the other at any given moment, not both.

**Asker:** Yes, that's that's altogether true.

**Bashar:** Why thank you.

**Asker:** There is a persistent cough. Yes. It is perhaps that uh I'm not the one to be addressing the issue. We have uh attempted many things such as uh dietary changes, um my gosh so many.

**Bashar:** What about locational shift?

**Asker:** Really?

**Bashar:** Where does this person really want to be? Uhhuh. Explore the idea that they may feel they are being subjected to an environment that is not conducive to their being. Explore that and see what happens, what comes up.

**Asker:** Yes all right.

### Kundalini Overload

**Asker:** And the third one yes. Lady called me from Los Angeles who's been dabbling well for quite a number of years has been uh experimenting yes undertaking work with um Kundalini Yoga.

**Bashar:** Without guidance. Without any guidance whatsoever that you know of?

**Asker:** Uh she's largely this is what she says.

**Bashar:** Yes. And so and uh sure she's being overwhelmed by energies.

**Asker:** Overwhelmed, yes.

**Bashar:** She must find that exciting then.

**Asker:** She finds it um very uncomfortable.

**Bashar:** I see. In your assessment without judgment, would you consider this individual to be to some degree in your terms say somewhat melodramatic?

**Asker:** That's a possibility I haven't considered.

**Bashar:** Um there seems to be a very considerable cost to her for this for what's occurring.

**Asker:** Cost uh physically? In what terms?

**Bashar:** Uh being incapacitated for considerable periods of time.

**Asker:** And the question again asked in a different way - what does this individual get out of being overwhelmed and incapacitated?

**Bashar:** This I need to investigate.

**Asker:** Yes. Find out what the individual may believe is the benefit to appearing to function as an incapacitated and overwhelmed individual. Find out what would be considered an advantage to be in that state, then you will have a key that you can turn. Thank you very much. Does that help you?

**Asker:** It helps a lot. Thank you.

---

## SESSION EIGHT: HEART AWAKENING AND ENERGY TECHNIQUES

### The Warrior's Stance

**Asker:** Um first I wanted to thank you for the last time that we spoke like this. All right. Thank you um as well for being such a perfect mirror thank you to me. I realized I was being really hard on myself. Oh all right. And thanks for playing that role out with me.

**Bashar:** My pleasure.

**Asker:** I I can't explain it but the love I felt led me to understand the mirror.

**Bashar:** But guys I know that I I don't know I just want to thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you for choosing to be more of yourself. We also appreciate it greatly. Anytime each and every one of you makes a choice to be more of yourself, to us the energy just as an analogy is the finest wine. You follow?

**Asker:** Cheers, thank you.

**Bashar:** Yes. I follow to your health.

**Asker:** I was following and I had to be called because I have a few questions actually.

**Bashar:** Yes. Proceed. Uncork and proceed. Pour yourself out.

**Asker:** Drain ooze.

**Bashar:** Yes if you wish.

**Asker:** About two months ago and the Ooze the only way I can I'm just going to use words but I don't know if I'm going to explain this properly but well you've used the sufficient amount of them explaining that you're trying to explain so why not just continue.

**Asker:** I will. Thank you. Um the only thing I can describe the experiences is that I fell into my heart. All right as far as that's poetic when I yeah I know it sounds trite but why it is poetic and act okay I hear you thank you. And I would say shortly after that I started falling it would like go from my mind to my heart and then into my navel. Yes, connecting the chakras. Yeah, but what happened about 2 and 1 half weeks ago? Yes, my mom had a heart attack yes and or a heart awakening as I told her. It was all right. Um and at the time I got the call I was in a very deep meditation. Yeah. So and I've been around heart patients so um it didn't scare me but my will just came so forward and for about 2 weeks monitoring it from here and then going to be with her yes it affected like everyone I came in contact with. Yes. And I have a question about will. I mean it was interesting cuz intuitively I just pulled out Castaneda's books again. Oh all right. Um what I was experiencing during that time was it was so multi-dimensional and there were so many people being affected yes and somehow I was monitoring it yes that I needed more information on how to run my physical energy. And you know how Castaneda talks about the assemblage point and that type of thing yes and he does say somewhere in there that why he likes the little smoke is because this type of energy actually fries your body - is hard on the body - which I don't believe.

**Bashar:** But I was experiencing it is shall we say to some degree capable of creating the experience of burnout if the intention is not clear. Mhm. But if the intention is no burnout occurs, nothing is hard on the body in that way.

**Asker:** Right. I found myself tired in a certain way but still having a lot of energy to keep it going. Yes. And so what I was wondering was if there was since you're a physiological being if there was any type of technique of working the energy in your body other than breathing or getting body work or doing yoga or yes that you can share.

**Bashar:** Yes. Thank you. You will find that one very valuable and very quick technique for aligning the intention, grounding the self, and bringing all the chakras into shining agreement will be what you will witness in the beginning stances, the physical stances or the positions adopted by what on your planet are classically referred to as sumo wrestlers. If you will observe the ritual of how they first will plant one foot and then the other foot with hands on thighs with the accompanying sound from the gut, from the belly, from the throat all in alignment. You will find that this will be a very aligning, purifying, cleansing, and clarifying technique. Then with the idea of allowing yourself to meet head on whatever is coming at you energetically, but at that point then being not confrontive but completely synchronized and meshed with the frequency of the energy - you and the energy will become one. There will be no difference and you will find yourself standing stronger than before.

**Asker:** Yeah I actually had that experience. Oh well thank. Somehow I knew to see no conflict and there were a lot of conflicting things um old especially with people being really afraid about it and not understanding why I didn't jump on a plane immediately.

**Bashar:** Well this is in ancient language on your planet called The Warrior's stance, the Warrior's secret. Mhm. And you instinctively know it because you have been a warrior several times.

**Asker:** Yeah I guess I don't really relate to it is it in a warrior sense.

**Bashar:** But we are simply using the old term.

**Asker:** Um is Castaneda put out some videos where they show the exercises I think it's called ten ten tens Integrity or something tensegrity. Yes. Is that there is a similarity to tensegrity. It is not identical but there is a similarity and tensegrity is to some degree based and an offshoot of the very simplistic example we have already just given you.

**Asker:** Okay. Um would it be better just to stick with sumo wrestling or?

**Bashar:** That's up to you.

**Asker:** Could I combine?

**Bashar:** You can do that, or you can create any combination of these ideas that work best for you in your present assessment of who and what you are.

### Tesseract and Energy Manipulation

**Asker:** Okay I had one more question. Yes. Um in one of the little stories in I think it was called it was a separate reality, Don Juan is displaying to Carlos um moving around a waterfall yes and he throws his some beams out from his assemblage point at his navel onto like a little rock and he wraps the beams around the rock so he can then stand on this rock. Is that um I don't know I I always have a little problem with doing stuff like that cuz I feel like it's manipulating energy.

**Bashar:** You are manipulating energy in a sense, but you don't have to use the word manipulating if that has a negative connotation to you.

**Asker:** Well I was wondering some if if how to create from the navel point which do you start thinking of throwing out beams to things you want.

**Bashar:** You can do it that way. There are a number of ways, and again one of the things we have just told you is one of the ways that you do that. But in that sense you are more likely throwing your entire attention out rather than singling it down to a single beam from the navel point. In a sense you become the navel point, you become also the solar plexus, you become every chakra simultaneously in what we have already described as the seed form of what you have referred to. Great. But again that is all a euphemism for again what you're really doing is making what appears to be out there your own in here. So in that sense it's not really a manipulation - it is a true shall we say recognition and quote unquote ownership.

**Asker:** Okay I guess I like a lot of these things do happen naturally under like you said earlier that intense desire, but since it's presenting itself a lot and um my balance sometimes is getting thrown off um I was just wondering if that was something that was a valid way, but this Warrior stance sounds more fun like it's more up my alley.

**Bashar:** All right then by all means go up your alley.

### Shifting Resonance

**Asker:** Um and then I wanted with the questions about remote viewing yes so you're saying it's resonance. I know that yes. There have been times where people have I could feel people coming to see me yes and you know it still requires resonance identification to have that experience. So the if you know if I don't want them there I just shift my resonance and a lot of times they can't follow me.

**Bashar:** Well in a sense perceive them in your reality domain, although they may perceive a version of you in theirs. Right. Unless they're really good cuz I there was one really good person who could who could jump around with.

**Bashar:** They may simply be capable of allowing themselves to have a broader spectrum of accessibility in terms of resonance identification.

**Asker:** So is that one way though to let's say it you felt it was an intrusion in in could you just shift your is that an accurate way of getting them off your back so so to speak is by shifting your resonance?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Asker:** Okay but again also examine the idea of first of all of course whether or not it actually truly is an intrusion or whether you have in that sense simply been given an opportunity to understand that your particular frequency may not be on a level that you prefer it to be on and you may be being given the gift of being shown that so that then in switching it you have the opportunity to thank them for showing you what level it was vibrating on.

**Asker:** Yeah I've had that experience under I guess attack if you want to call it that where just like I'm not going to fight this person what a waste of energy I would just shift my energy. Yeah. Thank you. Okay. Thank you.

---

## SESSION NINE: MOSES, ORION, AND REPTILIANS

### Moses and the Parting of the Red Sea

**Asker:** Hi Bashar. Um Bashar um I'd like to go back to what we talked about in our last session about Moses. Moses yeah. Um I'm still a little confused. I'm sorry a little slow. Maybe you could explain to me better the relationship between Moses and Moses and the aliens. You know like Ramses exactly. Moses it is an ancient Egyptian name not Moses. Moses okay. And what the relationship between Moses the aliens and the alien craft that uh that created The Parting of the Red Sea and what the significance was of that event.

**Bashar:** Oh all right. One moment. The relationship on certain levels is as follows - and this is not necessarily every level. Number one: it is generally recognized and understood that what you call the Hebrew nation is to some degree one of the offshoots of an ancient Orion stream that in the original Orion language is Hua. In the influx of incarnations upon your planet that ultimately resulted in what you would call the Hebraic and Arabic and various offshoot other similar nations, there was the recognition of a new influx of this energy on your planet that required shall we say arrangement in your society. That things needed to be arranged, moved around so that the proper energy dynamic would be created that would set up certain circumstances for what you would call the evolution of your planet. That certain societies, certain energies, certain thought forms, certain beliefs, certain cultures needed to move here or there, to cross-pollinate in certain ways, to inhabit certain areas, to bring energy to certain areas, to allow there to be more balanced ultimately in this way.

This was recognized as the Moses being an ancient leader and connected to incarnation and vibrationally the beings in the craft in that sense familiarly to some degree also to some degree genetically. And the idea then is that they assisted in relocating the vibration of that particular culture on your planet for the ultimate future consequences that would result, or at least were available to result, from the spreading out and mixing up of those genes, that energy, those thoughts, those ideas, those points of view. And so there was at that time because of the nature of that time being what it was, the ability to be open in direct communication more or less, and to guide to relocate that culture in a different place on your planet for the overall human agenda as it needed to be played out on the Earth with regard to the mixing in of new energies, new incarnational energies. You follow?

**Asker:** Yes. Uh you know we've also discussed before a long time ago that also uh part of the reason of the negativity here on this planet is not only the polarity and the densification of our atmosphere but also because of incarnations from the Orion constellation. So I'm wondering is a lot of this because of what was created here?

**Bashar:** There was somewhat of a responsibility that was taken on by some alien races and in fact even Moses was a representation. Moses was a representation of that and that he was actually trying to help to correct that as much as possible. Though he was not informed of the entire agenda, at least not in terminology that was understood by the extraterrestrials.

**Asker:** Yes a little bit different but somewhat for the purposes of the illustration yes it is sufficient.

### Reptilians and the Galactic Federation

**Asker:** Um I I'd like to move in another area if that's okay.

**Bashar:** Do you wish us to part any Seas for you?

**Asker:** Yes definitely. Oh right. Are there reptilians uh involved with the Galactic Federation?

**Bashar:** No, not directly.

**Asker:** No? Why not?

**Bashar:** It is in that sense not who they are. It is in that sense not their vibration to be. They are not in that sense a cohesive civilization as you would understand that in the way that is representative of those that are in what we call the Association of Worlds. It is in a sense an attached civilization energetically, a limic offshoot of the Gray civilization genetically engineered and part of the collective consciousness of the Gray that represents their primal level. In that sense they do not function as a cohesive civilization but as an appendage to another civilization. You follow?

**Asker:** Yes. That makes sense too. So so basically maybe I know this isn't very good way of wording this but so they kind of almost didn't evolve exactly.

**Bashar:** They were initially intended to evolve in again the idea is that they were one of the first genetic manipulations derived from what you would call the dinosaur DNA on your world before the creation of the genetic manipulation of the hominid DNA that led to the human body.

**Asker:** Yes we discussed that yes.

**Asker:** Okay um all right I got a couple more for you.

### Bashar's Origins

**Asker:** Um oh all right. You've said that your race of beings are a hybrid of us and the Grays correct?

**Bashar:** Generally yes.

**Asker:** Were you initially created maybe not in the final results but here on this planet?

**Bashar:** Not so much, no. The idea being that most of our ancestors were finalized in their form in what you would call spacecraft, not actually on your planet. Though again genetic material was derived from your planet.

**Asker:** Was it within our solar system?

**Bashar:** Yes, sometimes. Sometimes not initially. I mean like right off the bat right off the bat there were stations that were set up in your solar system for the initiation of the hybridization experimentations. Yes. And at the same time on spacecraft that traveled out of your solar system as well.

**Asker:** Okay thank. But not exactly on your planet except in some rare instances where certain adjustments needed to be made and it was deemed necessary that they needed to be made within the planetary environment, within the planetary gravity, within the planetary atmosphere in order to give the genetic spin what it needed to have, but those are long over with in your turn.

### The Anunnaki Connection

**Asker:** Okay Bashar. Are there any Anunnaki either here physically on Earth or uh communicating telepathically with anyone here?

**Bashar:** Not in their original form contemporarily unless you are referring to the Grays as the devolved result of a certain branch of Anunnaki.

**Asker:** Okay. Did you understand that already?

**Asker:** Uh yeah somewhat. I maybe another faction then. A faction of the Anunnaki set up shop if you will on a planet and ultimately created catastrophes in their world that ultimately resulted in the devolution of themselves into the form you now understand as the Gray.

**Bashar:** Right. I actually knew that.

**Asker:** So in that sense they are still to some degree Anunnaki, though they now require the idea of the genetic material that they utilize to create the human body to begin with to reinforce their own race and create the hybrid species so that they can continue incarnation. So in that sense I suppose if you want to simply talk about it, you and we together are also offshoots of Anunnaki.

**Bashar:** Yes, exactly. At least to some degree genetically.

**Asker:** Are are there any uh maybe looking at it from a time traveling standpoint although we know there's no time really literally but there is if you create there to be time exactly but um are there any ones from the what we would perceive from our past that are here now that have from time to time?

**Bashar:** They do peer in. Yes. From time to time they have participated in certain things. Yes. It is not that common. From time to time this has been done. Yes, it is not that common.

**Asker:** Okay. And when some of what individuals have called the large Nordics are to some degree representative of some of the ancient Anunnakis. You follow?

**Asker:** Yes I've heard you say that before. Yes. Does that help you?

### What Not to Remote View

**Asker:** One more question please.

**Bashar:** Oh all right.

**Asker:** Is there anything Bashar that you think that either I personally or people in generally should not remote view cuz it could uh harm us or you know maybe we're not ready to see it?

**Bashar:** We will leave that up to you and your own spontaneity and also to what you want to believe to be true.

**Asker:** Well I end of conversation.

**Bashar:** I think you already know. End of conversation. Number two you however can be number four.

---

## SESSION TEN: OVERCOMING FEAR AND UNDERSTANDING MOTIVATION

### Finding Your Bliss

**Asker:** Sure I was uh good day good day. I was uh very inspired by what you had to say at the beginning. Oh all right. My my I'm looking for some assistance in a swift kick okay in uh in getting to a place where I can follow my Bliss.

**Bashar:** Getting to a place where you can follow your bliss? You can't get there if you're not already following your bliss.

**Asker:** How do I know what my Bliss is?

**Bashar:** Non-Bliss does not lead to Bliss - only Bliss leads to Bliss. So unless you are Blissful where you are - which doesn't mean you have to necessarily prefer the circumstances, but you have to know that they're there for a Blissful reason and can be used in a Blissful way - then you can never allow yourself to experience any other Bliss because you have to be in a Blissful state in order to bring in more Bliss. Like attracts like.

How do you find your bliss? It's simple. You simply start simply, if you find it too complex any other way, and look at all the options and opportunities that are available to you to act on at any given moment, and simply ask yourself: out of all these things I could do, which has the highest degree of excitement that I'm capable of taking an action on? And when you determine what that might be, act on it. That's all you have to do. That's what is meant by acting on your bliss. Right? Does that make sense to you?

**Asker:** It does.

**Bashar:** Are you willing to allow it to be that simple so that it can become not more complicated but more complex and rich?

**Asker:** Am I willing? Yes.

**Bashar:** Are you willing? That's a good question.

**Asker:** Thank you. I would like some assistance with the fear about taking action.

### Understanding Fear as a Tool

**Bashar:** Fear of taking action? You mean in the direction of what you recognize as your bliss or anything?

**Asker:** I would because obviously you are taking actions all the time, so obviously you're not afraid of taking all actions or you would be completely inactive and inoperative. Correct? You would be in a coma, which I'm not.

**Asker:** All right, thank you.

**Bashar:** So obviously you are all right with taking some actions. Yes. So the fear that you are referring to has to do with certain specific actions then? Is that what you are intimating?

**Asker:** Um it would seem to be saying I love to do this and go doing it despite my spite what my own preconceptions about what I should be doing, how I should be earning a living, yes where I should be living, the relationships I should be having.

**Bashar:** I see. And so I'm shooting all over myself. Yes. And what do you get out of doing that? How does it serve you to do that? You don't have to risk. Why do you define these things as risk in the negative sense?

**Asker:** Because they can be scary.

**Bashar:** You are being circular in your logic. You are saying I will not risk because they are scary, and they are scary because I will not risk. Do you understand? So you are being circular in your logic - you are trapping yourself in a loop. What do you get out of defining being yourself as somehow being negatively risky? What do you get out of that?

**Asker:** I don't know. I have to think about that.

**Bashar:** You are implying that it makes you feel safe.

**Asker:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Yes, all right. Well safe is relative. Are you comfortable doing things today that you were uncomfortable doing yesterday, metaphorically speaking?

**Asker:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Well will you then be comfortable doing things tomorrow you are uncomfortable doing today?

**Asker:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Well then you have many many many many times and you know you will many times more become comfortable doing things that were heretofore uncomfortable. Yes. At any time that you finally decided to become comfortable to do something that was heretofore uncomfortable, did you perish? Did you die? Did you cease to exist?

**Asker:** No.

**Bashar:** No. Then why do you choose to assume that you will?

**Asker:** That's another good question. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Is it a degree of magnitude? Are you making comparisons? Well this I could see myself becoming comfortable with but not that - that's too much. Is that that the case or is there something else going on?

**Asker:** I think that's part of it.

### The Three-Part Process: Choice, Motivation, and Definition

**Bashar:** All right. Well, you see it all comes down to definition. That's all it comes down to. Again, it is a three-part process if you wish: choice is based on motivation, is based on definition. What you define to be true forms the basis for what you're motivated to do and forms the basis for what you actually choose to do. Right? So if you find yourself choosing to behave in a way that you really do not empirically prefer - with what you may call your ideal vision of yourself you do not prefer to behave this way, yet you do continue to behave this way - then what that says is that you are motivated to behave this way. And if you are motivated to behave this way, it means you have a definition that says this is the best thing to do - best meaning most pleasurable, least painful - because that's the only thing that motivation is based on: most pleasurable or what you perceive to be most pleasurable out of all the other choices, and what you perceive to be the least painful out of all the choices, as you define them.

So if you are behaving in a way that ideally you know you don't want to keep behaving, then the only reason you would keep choosing that is because you are motivated by your definition to assume that to behave this way is somehow more pleasurable and less painful than behaving any other way. But that's not because it is empirically so - it's only because you've been taught to define it as so. And definitions have absolutely no more solidity than you choose to give them, because there is no physical reality except your definition of it, and that's what physical reality is.

There is no physical reality in the same way that you actually have nothing in the mirror at all. There is nothing in the mirror - the reflection is here. Otherwise you wouldn't see it. If the reflection only came halfway back, you wouldn't see it - the mirror would be black. But because you can see it, that tells you the mirror is holding on to nothing - it is giving it all back to you. Therefore the mirror is actually nothing. Physical reality is such a mirror - it gives back to you totally what you give off. So there is nothing out there to contradict you. Nothing. There is no physical reality empirically. Nothing. Nothing. Nothing. Nothing. It's all based on your definition.

Fear, fear as we have said, is a tool. It is a self-regulating tool. Fear can be used in a very constructive way. Again by analogy in a similar fashion to what you call piano tuning on your planet: you are playing a song, you find it harmonious, suddenly you hit what you call a clunker, a sour note - a key is out of tune. Do you panic? Do you run away from the piano, hide in the corner and say I will never go near a piano again? No. You say aha, I will now tune this key so that it is in harmony with the other keys.

Fear literally, literally is the sour note, is the discordant key to let you know aha. You flow your energy through your beliefs and that's what creates the manifested reality you perceive outside yourself. But as you flow your energy through your beliefs, you either flow them through beliefs that are in alignment with your truth, or you flow them through beliefs that are out of alignment with your truth. When you flow your energy through a belief that is out of alignment with your true self, you experience the result as the sensation you call fear. That's all it is. It's telling you: wait a minute, you are feeling this sensation now because this is telling you that relative to the circumstances you perceive, you have a definition about the circumstance that is out of alignment - not in alignment, out of sync, out of tune with your true self vibration.

Find out what that definition would have to be in order to be out of alignment. Find out what definition you would prefer to believe, and when you find out what the original definition is that you're flowing your energy through that created the discordant feeling called fear, and then you discover what belief you would rather have, it will automatically replace the other one. You will flow your energy through the new belief and you will experience having transformed the vibration of fear into the vibration of joy, because it's all the same energy - it just depends on what you are filtering it through.

That is how you can use fear anytime you feel it constructively. Don't deny it, don't run away from it - feel it and rejoice that you have felt it, because now you're going to discover something about yourself you didn't know. And the second you use fear that way, you will instantaneously make it less fearful.

**Asker:** Does that make sense?

**Bashar:** Yes it does.

**Asker:** Does it help you to understand how to be more in the now?

**Bashar:** I think so.

**Bashar:** Yeah. Then use this technique and allow it to work for you, because that's all physical reality is - is what you define it to be, because there is no physical reality. Right? Make sense?

**Asker:** Yes it does.

**Bashar:** Does that help you then?

**Asker:** Yes it does.

### The Urantia Book

**Asker:** Can I ask you one other question? I suppose you can. You just ask one right there. The Urantia book yes. Do you have any opinion about that?

**Bashar:** It is one interpretation of certain concepts that translate perhaps into certain ideologies better than others. In that sense again, you will find take what works for you, leave what does not.

**Asker:** All right. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Number three and good day.

---

## SESSION ELEVEN: THE POWER OF PARADOX

### Understanding Paradox

**Asker:** Hi Bashar. Um had an interesting week. Oh all right. Wanted to share last week uh uh I had shared with you that um I was living in all this Paradox. Yes. And then I was with Stephanie on Saturday and we got talking about that and she said do you understand how to use the power of paradox? And I said no I really don't. Oh all right. And um so then uh about Tuesday this week I was talking with a friend of mine on the phone and he was when I expressed about the Paradox and he said Gee I've been living in lot of that too. Congratulations. Yeah. And then as we talked and defined and and everything just came very clear and I finally got how to use the power of paradox.

**Bashar:** Congratulations.

**Asker:** Yes. And we were both so excited on the phone because we're both you know getting it at the same time. All right. And uh that that was in very very high high energy and vibration and energetics so um that was great.

**Bashar:** All right. It is similar to the analogy we spoke of earlier when discussing the idea of remote viewing. The power of paradox here is the recognition that remote viewing is not remote, and then suddenly you understand why it can be done because it's all here. Yes. That's using that's an example of using the recognition that comes from using the power of paradox.

**Asker:** Yes because when we as we were talking uh what I realized that the other thing was connected to time and in a sense yeah and what we were discussing did not because it was in the middle it was that yes it is in the Timeless energy the timelessness yes and it it really came because it's in the Eternal now yes yes and that became very very clear.

**Bashar:** Why thank you.

**Asker:** And then he called me on Thursday and said that he has really experienced uh his experience of being in the now and understanding in totality what that was. All right. Uh so he's very excited about that.

### The Tesseract and Remote Viewing

**Asker:** Oh all right. Then I also when you're talking about the viewing yes and being in in that Paradox then yes um the tesseract and going into the other parallel realities and all of that then yes. I'm feeling as you were talking about all this that this is similar but somehow a little different.

**Bashar:** Well it is a particular or specific manifestation or one particular modality of expressing Paradox in a geometric form.

**Asker:** Okay but how is it similar to the viewing?

**Bashar:** I get that remote viewing is then very similar to to it but uh going into the tesseract it is a matter of perspective angle. So in this sense the Tesseract is representative of different angles that allow you to peer into different realities even though it all seems to be the same box that you're looking in. Yes, again it is holographic in that sense, so it's the same as remote viewing. It is one way in which remote viewing can be experienced because it is another analogy of the same technique and that is simply shifting frequency, changing the angle of view to allow yourself to see what is actually here that you heretofore thought was actually there.

**Asker:** Okay the Box the Tesseract the hypercube is one way to geometrically express another technique for understanding that everything you thought was there is here.

**Bashar:** Right. So in that sense it is or possibly can be used as a catalyst for the concept of what you call the experience of remote viewing.

**Asker:** Yeah and if you're doing it from the Zero Point Energy and which is here and now.

**Bashar:** Well in a sense if you're really doing it from the Zero Point Energy you don't even need the Tesseract because you're at the zero point where everything is. Okay you follow?

**Asker:** Yes. Zero point is yet another idea. Right. So okay. Does that help you?

**Asker:** I um on Saturday I picked up this uh Cube yes that is made out of lead crystal. Oh all right. And uh so I purchased that because that was quite interesting and and for the idea it help me hone in the idea of the tesseract a little more because you can peer through it and see the perspective and it will give you a little bit more of a three dimensional rendering of the idea. Yes right. And then I took it to a friend of mine who uh showed it to this guy that does my fasting on the stones yes because I have feeling a resonant frequency for me to maybe have it made. I'm thinking about having it made uh in the fashion of uh just the the um corners of each face and that cuz that's how this other one was done yes and with the stone with using the green stone a clear green stone and um uh I felt that that would uh all right have a good time experimenting and exploring.

**Bashar:** Yeah but uh this is great.

### The Bird at the Window

**Asker:** All right yes then um the other uh experience that I had with continuing experience I'm having with this bird yes. And on Friday when we had talked about it uh he didn't show up uh Saturday and Sunday so I thought well gee maybe my conversation with you had you know sort of corrected it. Anyway Monday morning he was back at the window again. Took off for the weekend.

**Bashar:** Yeah he took off for the weekend is right and back to business as usual.

**Asker:** Uh-huh uh-huh. And so I sat and I just gave you the clue and that's all you're going to get.

**Bashar:** Well I was just sharing. I know but I gave you a clue and that's all you need. But I already picked up on that. Thank you. Then it is a reinforcement for you. Do you have another subject you to talk about?

**Asker:** I okay I didn't need that reinforcement. I was sharing information. We are giving it to you because you didn't need it. Oh okay. Thank you. Okay um yeah there was one other.

### The Dream: Car Turning into Bicycle

**Asker:** Yeah that one sort of throwing me off because it it was a great experience. I also had um this dream guys that uh was rather interesting. I was in my car yes very fast car yes and I was going to I it was a long hill going down but I was at the top and just a little bit into it I was going to make a left hand turn and then there was this other car that was coming up the hill and he looked like he was just going to go to the top and all of a sudden he decided to make a left hand turn his left coming which would come directly into me. All right so I thought well I better go down the go down the hill because he's going to come right into me. So I went very very fast down the hill and my car was faster than his his vehicle yes and I got about 3/4 of the way down and and I took I thought I'll take this there was this only this left turn again and I took the left turn and I cut a u because I figured he would keep on going and because he was behind me and I'd be out of his way. And well as I made the U and came around yes uh well I noticed that he continued on by yes and then there was a collision he had with two other yes cars yes. But then as I turned and I was going back up the hill to get where I was going my vehicle turned into a bicycle.

**Bashar:** As you've spoken before with other people simplification of your vehicle.

**Asker:** Yes I got that. All right and then I'm all of a I'm pushing now I'm behind I'm on like the sidewalk and I'm pushing the uh bicycle up the hill and it's a very very and I notice how tall how how slanted how steep yes thank you that's the word how steep it really was yes and uh then that was the end of my dream.

**Bashar:** Oh all right. I didn't have a feeling I don't have a feeling um if I was thinking about it I was wondering if I was what that was symbolic of.

**Bashar:** It is symbolic to some degree that while you are simplifying your vehicle, there is still an inertia so to speak, a gravity that you feel you still need to divest yourself of. Yet at the same time you are doing what is necessary - you are allowing yourself to experience every last step that is necessary to finally reach the peak and coast down the other side. Yes. Did you get that?

**Asker:** Yes all right.

**Bashar:** Oh yes. I got it's as simple as that. Right. You're doing fine.

**Asker:** Great. Yeah. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Does that help you?

**Asker:** Yeah it does.

**Bashar:** All right. And we give you one more playful idea okay and we'll see what you do with this next time we communicate.

**Asker:** All right.

**Bashar:** Next transmission right. Paradox Pandora's Box.

**Asker:** Whoa. Okay.

**Asker:** Number four.

---

## SESSION TWELVE: THE GRAY'S PERSPECTIVE ON REMOTE VIEWING

### The Gray's Advice to Courtney Brown

**Asker:** Thank you. Back to remote viewing. Oh all right. Back to remote viewing. There's a gray who is giving advice to Courtney Brown. Can you tell me if that gray is giving advice in a positive manner or is is it intended to be destructive?

**Bashar:** It is not intended to be destructive. However I certainly will say it definitely has its own spin.

**Asker:** What in what respect?

**Bashar:** With regard to what needs to be perceived of it rather than tell you with what respect. From the Gray's perspective with regard to what needs to be perceived from the human end, it is once again about focusing and sharpening and honing the sense of discernment in the act and experience of remote viewing. So you are being given purposely a spin to see how on track you can remain.

**Asker:** I don't quite get it.

**Bashar:** I know you don't, and that's part of your difficulty. I'm not going to give you any more than what I just said to see if you have the ability to have the discernment to understand us clearly. That's your homework.

**Asker:** All right. Okay. Thank you.

---

## SESSION THIRTEEN: RELATIONSHIPS AND CODEPENDENCY

### When to Stay and When to Leave

**Asker:** Thank you. Good day. Good day Bashar. Um I have been living with a man in Atlanta yes and I was first attracted to this man I've got to say because he's very supportive of me and very open to the the ideas and and learnings that I've learned from you and other other well if I can call you a teacher we all are everyone is all right. And so um yet I found that he's very codependent and um and so very insecure and that I find it difficult to stay around that even though I have a desire to teach him because ah contradiction.

**Bashar:** Teaching comes from being the true self, not from subjugating who you are for what you think you're supposed to be.

**Asker:** Say that again.

**Bashar:** Teaching comes from being the true self, not subjugating what you are to reflect what you think you're supposed to be reflecting. So to put it in your words: but I'm going to stick around because I think I need to teach him when in fact maybe leaving would be the teaching.

**Asker:** Oh yeah. I I agree strongly that at some point that is but at some point. So in other words what you're saying is that even though you now have a recognition that this being may be exhibiting vibrations that are not in accordance with your preference, you're going to still subjugate yourself for a reason beyond that point of recognition.

**Asker:** Well I I feel that it's another teacher that that taught me that um teaching is the final step of learning. Yes. So I feel it's a challenge but also his lifestyle is such that he doesn't really have time to listen to me and he falls asleep when I'm started. He's very interested yes. So um it's but and then I suppose he's very interested yet he falls asleep.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

**Asker:** Um well he's he's never gets enough rest he's always going but well there are lessons there for the individual then in terms of their spontaneity, their timing, their pacing so on and so forth. And when we say perhaps the best teaching is the leaving, it doesn't mean even that has to necessarily be permanent. We're not talking about absolutes here, but we may be talking about a methodology that may cause one's eyes to open to see the consequences of actions reflected in another individual so that he can decide what it is he really wants to do relative to your particular response to who he chooses to be.

**Asker:** Okay so the idea is that even the idea of quote unquote I'll put it this way since the people on your planet seem to understand the language of temporariness better - even if you appear to be leaving, that may wake the individual up. You understand?

**Asker:** Yes I agree.

**Bashar:** So it is still bottom line the same thing as actually doing so.

**Asker:** Oh yes.

**Bashar:** As a reflection of the consequences and that can be the teaching that will then allow the individual to align themselves with the choices they want to make to provide an atmosphere to allow you to come back. So in that sense you will not really have left if they choose to do that, but it may be the methodology needed to allow them to see that that's what they need to do if they want to interact with you.

**Asker:** Okay you follow?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So it doesn't have to sound harsh - oh leave him - because you're simply using that as a technique to see if the individual recognizes the consequences of the behavior they're already exhibiting and to give them an opportunity to decide whether or not they want to change their behavior to provide an opportunity for reconnection. Mhm. That's the whole event that's happening. Yeah. Now of course if they don't, then you will simply be where you need to be by having left. Right. So this is the most efficient teaching.

**Asker:** Yes you follow?

**Bashar:** Yes absolutely.

### Self-Support vs. Codependency

**Asker:** And maybe you touched on there's one other little area about leaving that I'm not sure of myself whether whether this is the first time a man has been so supportive of me that I can remember aside from my dad in my life.

**Bashar:** And so you're giving yourself an opportunity to really see if you're giving the support to yourself rather than requiring it from another individual, which I would believe you would call a very codependent thing.

**Asker:** Oh oh okay. Ooh. Thank you. Reflect reflect reflect. Thank you thank you.

**Bashar:** But also um I have wondered about myself if I don't just because my first thing I that I always think of is well I'm just leaving I'm just leaving and it's like it's very like me to run away.

**Bashar:** But now you can do it knowing that it's not necessarily a running away, but at the same time open your eyes to what you're doing because he may be giving you the exact reflection you need to see as we have just helped you find out.

**Asker:** Thank you B. Thank you. That's all for right now.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

---

## SESSION FOURTEEN: EXPLORING PARADOX AND LANGUAGE

### The Power of Paradox Explained Further

**Asker:** Hi Bashar and are you good day. Good day. Um synchronistically I've been thinking about Paradox a lot. Oh all right. But you know what what I don't think I get it yet.

**Bashar:** Don't get what?

**Asker:** How to use the power of it.

**Bashar:** I mean it is simply a recognition that you apply. Again let's use the example that was already given this transmission: individuals are labeling a particular experience, defining a particular experience as remote viewing. The recognition that it is not actually remote allows you to apply a different relationship to the experience.

**Asker:** I did get that.

**Bashar:** Well that's the power of paradox. That's using the power of paradox. It begins with a recognition and usually a redefinition. The redefinition allows you do have understanding of how to approach the experience from a different way, sometimes even completely 180 degrees different. Okay. Again it is similar to what we have done when we have redefined the issues of trust, redefined the issues of doubt. These are again recognitions of another way to define something so that you can actually use the power of its opposite, the power of paradox, to balance the issue out and create a definition that actually will allow you to really know what's happening rather than simply being stuck on the definitions that have been given or moving back and forth between the two paradigm.

**Asker:** I mean the well if that serves you to do so, but generally when you find that you have redefined something and find that it is more in alignment with what you prefer, it is not always necessary to go back and forth unless going back and forth is in and of itself the issue at hand, the experience you want, and thus you have in a sense created a paradox within a paradox.

**Asker:** Okay because yeah I think I do that. I choose that.

**Bashar:** Well then that's your choice. Yeah.

**Asker:** But like you are being paradoxical about the use of paradox.

**Bashar:** And so what's the effect of that?

**Asker:** It makes you ask questions that reveal answers to yourself about yourself.

**Bashar:** Oh I have been having a good time that's for sure.

**Asker:** Yes. Um it allows you to examine yourself from different points of view to ultimately fine-tune and refine the perspective at any given moment that you actually prefer.

**Asker:** Well it seems like when you're in the balance point between that that's it's such a neutral place yes that it's not as exciting.

**Bashar:** That's because you are defining neutrality as dull. Paradoxically enough, you see what we're getting at. Because I'm defining it as dull, I don't get all the excitement that really comes with it. Again when you are at the true zero point or what we prefer to call the true zero point, our definition of being in the neutral position is breathtaking. You see how you define even neutrality can have a spin, and therein lies the paradox.

**Asker:** Yeah and so okay so I haven't really fully experienced that but I noticed I enjoy experiencing bliss a lot.

**Bashar:** By whatever you might choose to Define it as at any given moment. Yes.

**Asker:** Okay but certain states of bliss don't seem to involve a lot of um cognitive activity.

**Bashar:** This is sometimes correct. Is that just a very healing state? It can be in the same sense as what you call Delta Sleep is a very healing State for the body, and in that sense represents apparently the most physically unconscious State, though there is actually a level below that vibrationally.

**Asker:** So is there a benefit to doing that for me?

**Bashar:** There can be from time to time. Again overall it depends on how you use it overall.

**Asker:** Well if I you know if I choose what excites me the most then I will choose that a lot again for a while.

**Bashar:** Again, listen carefully. Yes. Each of those experiences can be representative of your excitement. You might often choose that experience then. However, you also have to look at the overall reason why you might often yeah choose that experience to make sure that the overall reason for choosing that experience often is itself actually representative of your joy, or is that an escape.

**Asker:** Okay you see.

**Bashar:** Mhm. Does that help explain the layers to the Paradox?

### Ancient Language and Dolphin Consciousness

**Asker:** Is that um the other thing is on the language. Um do you mean the ancient Essani language? Language yes. Um I worked a lot with the idea of the yes and what one thing I found out is that in the English language there doesn't seem to be any letters that really truly represent the intaking of breath.

**Bashar:** What a surprise. Is that because it's a is that make it a like a male language or that it's more in a sense yes it makes it a more quote unquote aggressive language rather than a receptive one.

**Asker:** Yeah so the closest I could get was um HWP for yes and TT for no. CH H CH. Okay because yeah I wasn't able to tell for sure on that. Okay and I wondered um the name you have dolphins on your planet right? We have a few from your world. Yes. What what did they call them? They came at a time when we already were no longer using our language. Do understand. Yes. Okay. Yeah so all right. Thank you very much.

**Bashar:** One moment. We will see if we can give you a translation of the vibrational telepathic connection that we specifically use to recognize dolphin consciousness. Okay. One moment. Did you get that?

**Asker:** One more time.

**Bashar:** Again another intake but more of what you would call the similar mouth position that you use for but inward. It is similar to what you call a gasp but longer, more in duration, and with the polarized intention of the same quietude that you equate to the outward expression that is also analogous to the sound of your ocean waves but in this case. You follow? Will that help you?

**Asker:** Yes that'll help a lot.

**Bashar:** Why thank you. You may simply wish to spell sh backwards.

**Asker:** Okay. Thanks for the help.

**Bashar:** You're welcome. And then good day.

---

## SESSION FIFTEEN: CONSCIOUS CREATION AND HUMAN FORM

### Why Continue in Human Form?

**Asker:** Good day Bashar at all. I have a I want to make a statement and I have two questions about it. One one is it true and two if it is true how do we the best word I can think of is reconcile it. This is the statement: if we have the ability to create our reality Moment by moment when we reach a conscious level where we can manifest what we want on any given moment, is there a particular reason to hang out kind of hang out in the human form?

**Bashar:** Yes. It's fun. The idea is that an entity who might receive what you are hypothetically referring to as complete Consciousness with regard to the idea that they are creating their physiological reality doesn't necessarily arrive at a point where they want to stop experiencing that. Therefore if they deem that there is a reason, their own reason, even if the simple reason this is still fun, then they will continue to experience the idea of physicalization. If however arriving at that point of Consciousness to them means that they have quote unquote gone beyond the need for further physiological experience, then they will in a sense Ascend.

**Asker:** Thank you but it is personal.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Does that help you?

**Asker:** Absolutely. Why thank you.

---

## SESSION SIXTEEN: DREAMS AND ORION CONNECTIONS

### The Dome Dream

**Asker:** You and then you number two do you know who you are?

**Bashar:** One moment. Number one yes. Number two all right.

**Asker:** Hi Bashar tell you a good day. Um I had a couple of interesting dreams this week that I wanted to share. Yes. Um the first one was um I was with about four or five different people um men and women and we were on another planet and um there was um a lot of dirt and the covering to where we were at was like this white Dome and we were government people were doing some kind of government thing and people couldn't see us and it's kind of weird and then I woke up.

**Bashar:** Can you be more descriptive of the planetary surface?

**Asker:** Oh I didn't it was just lots of of dirt dark brown color brown dark brown like like soil yes but there weren't a lot of people.

**Bashar:** All right and you experience again the idea of a Dome structure. Yes. One one color white. The one we were in white. White. You were in it. Mhm. Not outside it. No. Inside of it and it was a dirt floor. Dirt floor. Yes. Could you not then see beyond the walls of the Dome? That's a good question. I mean I knew that that there wasn't any like anybody else around but yet I knew that we were inside of the structure. As far as you could tell what did it appear to be made out of the Dome? I'm not sure but I would say maybe steel or something I don't know. In that you perceive it was what? Smooth yes and hard yes yet white yes. Did it have any degree of translucency at all or did it seem completely opaque as you would call paint? It would seem opaque as I would call paint while I was in it but yet I was aware that there was nothing else around us but we were somewhere else but there were I didn't see any other people but the group of us and we had some kind of Uniforms on. Define like we were government we were doing something with the government and we were dressed in these like I would say Navy. Are you referring to a color or a branch of military on your planet? A color yeah and I could remember seeing a patch on one of the guy's arms which looked like white. Any Insignia within? No I didn't get anything. Are you sure? No I'm not sure but I I can't think right now and I don't or I'm not asking you to think. I can't when I picture the image in my head I don't I don't I can't see an Insignia. All right. Are you looking at your own patch or another person's? Another person's patch. I I'm not sure what I was wearing but I know that somebody else was wearing. I assumed I was wearing it till now but now that I think about it I don't remember looking at myself and seeing what I was wearing. Look at yourself now. Are you wearing the same thing like now in my head in my dream? Yes I thought I was. All right good enough. Can you look at your own patch? No. All right. No don't be disappointed. No I'm not I'm just trying to be you know all right now honest or truthful here.

**Bashar:** Oh thank you so much.

**Asker:** Now One Moment One Moment One Moment One Moment.

**Bashar:** And how do you feel about your connection to Orion?

**Asker:** I never really thought about it.

**Bashar:** Think about it now. My connection to Orion. Yes.

**Asker:** I don't know what to say.

**Bashar:** Um what do you feel when it comes up? How did you feel in this dream? Well there weren't a lot of people around it seemed kind of desolate. Yes. And how did that feel? I don't I don't know. I'm not sure what I'm feeling about it. I just know that it was different and it was dark because there weren't a lot of people around you know. Do you find that you feel confused about this? Yeah.

**Bashar:** One moment. All right. What you will call we perceive your Saturday night. You understand?

**Asker:** No no tomorrow Saturday night tomorrow yes.

**Bashar:** When you go to sleep, ask to go back to that spot. Open up to the idea of symbolism, archetype, memory, significance. See if you can pull in more experiential memory okay of what that place represents to you. Think time pass all right and see if you can hone in more strongly on that position for in a sense it is a target area. See if you can pick up first what you can before we discuss this further. Okay. But think Orion, think ancient, and see if you can bring to bear more memory and more clarity about this place and time.

**Asker:** Yeah because the people that were there I didn't recognize any of them.

**Bashar:** You will to some degree at least symbolically. Yeah. Okay and we will talk about this particular thing.

### Dream of Grandmother

**Asker:** I have another yes. Um this past week also I had a dream about my grandma the other day yes and we were never really close but um and it's been about 20 years since she passed over yes and um in my dreams she was standing in front of me we were holding hands and she was talking to me and I normally could remember a lot about my dreams and I have no idea what she was telling me which was kind of odd to me.

**Bashar:** What is your physiological age?

**Asker:** 34.

**Bashar:** And her approximate age at the time of physical passage?

**Asker:** 60 uh one or two I think what moment maybe a little bit older than that.

**Bashar:** One moment. You may be about to experience an extreme life changing circumstance and or opportunity and or incident. She may in that sense be holding your hand to help you adjust to the shifts. Follow that.

**Asker:** Makes a lot of sense. Does that help you then?

**Asker:** Yeah it also makes sense because of what you opened with talking to us about um following our well you know the general following our excitement and and not being afraid to do things and I've been at a job for over 10 years and um I decided that I'm not happy there so I I went on a job interview and um they were interested but I'm I'm just waiting for them to hire some people for me to go meet and see if it works out.

**Bashar:** Well in a sense she is holding your hand through this saying that it's the right thing. Yes.

**Asker:** Yeah. I moving. You're doing fine.

**Bashar:** But I understand what what um this other gentleman over here was saying when you know you're afraid because it's it was a security for me for a long time.

**Bashar:** Yes but now you are learning that change is the only true security because change is the only true constant.

**Asker:** Right and I and I realized that and I also realized a lot of things about myself that you know my being afraid that I can't do something which I know that I can and I'm fully capable I just have to learn how to how to do it their way and so um or you can learn to do it your way within the parameters of what works best for all concerns.

**Bashar:** Right. I think I'll be okay. I know I'll be okay.

**Bashar:** You are okay. I'm okay. Okay.

**Asker:** Thank you very much.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

---

## SESSION SEVENTEEN: PHYSICAL SYMPTOMS AND ENERGY MANIPULATION

### Spontaneous Combustion and Monatomic Gold

**Asker:** Hi Bashar do you good day. Um I had three things I wanted to ask you about.

**Bashar:** Number one number one. Um I have these episodes at night episodes where I become absolutely on fire head to toe.

**Bashar:** Physiological. Are you talking about or some other state talking I'm talking physiologically yes it it feels um it's it's amazing sense of heat which I never have in my body. Is it in your terms unpleasant or simply interesting? It's unpleasant. Oh all right it's unpleasant yes. Um I've been thinking that it's an endocrine imbalance but what occurred to me recently as a possibility is I'm not certain of the correlation but it seems as though I've been taking monatomic gold during the times that that has been occurring. This could be an accelerant in your system yes since it is in that sense generally an accelerant. Well now um you are certain you are not menopausal? Yeah though they said that that's not it at all. All right. Um the question I have someone had told me that you when you did a session a private session about the monatomic gold that you had mentioned that if there was sufficient toxicity in the body that you could spontaneously combust. Yes. Now I've got this at 4 in the morning I really do think I'm going to spontaneously combust and I really need you to tell me that I'm not.

**Bashar:** Are you doing what you can to cleanse and balance your system and remove as many toxins as you can?

**Asker:** Uh great hesitation follow which usually means no. Um I am I well but but probably not to the degree that I should be I should I think my diet is excellent I've been drinking water for the first time in my life then what are you referring to when you say not to the degree I prefer to because I've been feeling lately as though there's something that I need to address there's a there's a toxicity I I want to I keep seeking out cleansing programs and I I'm experimenting with some so just intuitively I think all right I need to do that.

**Bashar:** All right you are to some degree feeling the acceleration and to some degree it may be because of the dichotomy of certain neurobiological chemical shifts within your body that you are experiencing it this way. In some sense you may also be actually creating a heat threshold in your system specifically for the purpose of initiating certain glandular actions, certain biochemical actions that actually ultimately will assist in purging you of some of these toxins in the same conceptual way that a fever can burn out the idea of parasitic infection. Right. You may be giving yourself an opportunity to become a crucible, a forge in which there literally may be being created a state of vibratory resonance in which some of these things cannot exist, cannot remain, and may in a sense euphemistically be being sweated out of your system. You follow?

**Asker:** Yes I do. That actually leads me to my second question. I oh I thank you for your synchronicity.

### Lights and Electromagnetic Fields

**Asker:** Yeah I had a an interaction recently um the first part of it I wanted to ask you about is is a very very clear conscious awareness of Lights being shined in my eyes in my room yes.

**Bashar:** Is that was that on a third dimensional level if there were not exactly but you did bring the interpretation into your third dimensional reality even though it was in a sense more of a higher vibration than what you typically call third.

**Asker:** Okay and the the paralysis field has such a distinct electrical component sometimes it's electrical and sometimes it's very distinctly magnetic and I can feel it in very specific parts of my body it moves very clearly.

**Bashar:** That and and some of what you are experiencing as the heat is a side effect of you getting a handle on learning to manipulate that electromagnetic field yourself instead of Simply Having It imposed upon you. In a sense you are beginning to learn to manipulate it in such a way that you can actually begin to consciously decide what parallel realities to experience. You follow? Mhm. Sometimes the idea of electromagnetic resonance potential when not completely understood or aligned within you will dump out its side effect energy as heat through resistance. Yeah. Mhm. So you are also manipulating this electromagnetic field yourself and some of okay.

**Asker:** Thank you guys.

### Jonathan and the Zen Koan

**Asker:** Um the last area I wanted to talk about is I I haven't mentioned Jonathan for some time yes and I um Bill has been working on him with William Gray and I've reached this this kind of a strange point with him. It's strange Point. Well as I was sitting here in the energy with you tonight it just sort of occurred to me that it's it's almost like like trying to come to a resolution about a with a a Zen koan. It's I've spent you mean what is the sound of one hand clapping? Yeah well that answers that.

**Bashar:** Thank you that always wondered about that. That would be a Zen joke to the Zen koan. Thank you.

**Asker:** Does that ignite you sufficiently?

**Bashar:** Well I'm going to let you Ponder what just happened.

**Asker:** Oh dear. Okay number three.

---

## SESSION EIGHTEEN: UNDERSTANDING ADDICTION AND SELF-DEFINITION

### The Smoking Dilemma

**Asker:** Hi B to you good day. Um I talked to you how long ago was it a month about oh all right. I was talked about smoking and and I'm still very confused about what.

**Bashar:** What are you confused?

**Asker:** You told me that um I'm obviously not ready to experience my higher power or my higher self because I'm still smoking.

**Bashar:** You may be using it that way yes.

**Asker:** But I am that it was frustrates me so very much.

**Bashar:** Why are you frustrated? This is your choice. Don't be frustrated. It is your choice.

**Asker:** No it's not.

**Bashar:** You are choosing it. You see that's the denial that actually doesn't allow you to learn to change. You have to acknowledge and own that it is your choice to do what you are doing, because if you don't own what you do you can't change it.

**Asker:** Okay you're right there thank you.

**Bashar:** But so if you are choosing it yet then acknowledge and own that you are choosing it because you are all motivated to do what you do, and if you were motivated in another Direction you'd be doing something else. So if you keep choosing that it simply means you are motivated to do it based on your definition of why you think you need to be motivated to make that choice. So own it that you are making a choice that brings it back into your control. Okay because then at least it's an honest recognition that you are making the choice.

**Asker:** All right that's the beginning of change that's the beginning you're right okay I I acknowledge that all right.

**Bashar:** Thank you but yes and yes I would love you to help me a little bit there. Well all right well please.

### The Pain-Pleasure Equation

**Bashar:** The idea again to go a little bit further into the concept of motivation is that you do everything for only one of two reasons, and that is that you perceive what you're doing as more pleasurable and less painful than any other choice you could make. So the question is: how does not smoking represent to you more pain than continuing to smoke, as painful as that might be?

**Asker:** Well I never passed more than a week and this week has been very painful because of but answer the question: how does choosing to not smoke to you seem more painful than smoking?

**Bashar:** It doesn't.

**Asker:** Obviously it does. You're not getting the point. You have to understand there are two perspectives here. There is what we will call the ideal point of view, the soul level higher self point of view of the circumstance, and the physiological personalities point of view. The Soul's point of view can say Obviously stopping smoking would be representative of more joy. However, if the personality continues to smoke, the personality is actually saying no, continuing to smoke is less painful and more pleasurable than stopping, because the personality is constructed from definitions and the definitions that construct your personality say to smoke is less painful than stopping.

So even though the ideal self may say well no I know it would be more representative of my joy to not smoke, the personality which is the one that's smoking says no it would be more painful to stop because of the definition that makes up the personality. So you have to find out what is the definition in the personality that says stopping would be more painful. In fact it can actually be very fundamental - even the concept itself, pay attention here this is critical - even the concept itself of having to stop is a definition.

I'll explain as we have discussed before: when you make a change, you really actually are completely different, a completely new person who actually doesn't have the history of the other person that was there a moment ago. If you really are a new person, it doesn't mean that you are the same person different - it means you are a person you have never been before that has never been here before that has no history at all. The concept of being a person with no history who simply doesn't smoke is very different than the concept of a person who stopped smoking. You're creating a continuity where none needs to be. The very concept that you need to stop may in and of itself be what's creating difficulty in your definitions because the concept of having to stop may be being defined by you as deprivation. I have to stop - you don't even have to define the incident or experience that way.

If you truly understand and experience the idea that every change is a total change and that all of a sudden the you you are now is actually a you that has never been here before, then you can be a you that never smoked, therefore never had to stop. So you may be needing to even examine the most fundamental levels of how you're thinking about this concept of not smoking. It may not be an issue of having to stop - it is simply an issue of defining yourself as a person that never did and doesn't now.

**Asker:** Okay but that's unfortunately still this physiological but see you're making an excuse. You're making an excuse. Stop trying. That's the point. Stop trying. You think you have to try. You think you have to try. You don't have to try - you just have to be who you'd prefer to be ideally. Being who you prefer to be ideally will allow you to experience yourself as a person who simply never smoked and that means would never have the urge to do so. Okay. It's not in her makeup.

But the idea is is that if you do continue to choose to smoke, you are choosing that every moment by giving the moment a definition that says smoking somehow is in your best interest as the person you're defining yourself to be. Again and choice comes from motivation and comes from definition. So you have to own the fact that if you are deciding to smoke, it's because you have assessed that your definition of the circumstance of the situation of who you are makes that choice less painful and more pleasurable than what you believe as a personality the alternative to be.

So for example, if somehow you think changing is more difficult, more of a struggle, something hard to maintain, or any of those definitions or a thousand other definitions, you will weigh the two choices and you will say changing is more painful, it's more of an effort to maintain, it's this, it's that, and that outweighs the pain of continuing to smoke, therefore I will continue to smoke because you always are motivated - all of you are always motivated instantly and instinctively automatically in the direction of what you perceive or Define to be the greater pleasure and the least painful.

So when you change your definition, you will automatically be motivated to not smoke. But if you do smoke, you are motivated to by your definition of the comparison you are defining between choosing to smoke and not. So as long as you continue to smoke, you are obviously - and let it be obvious - you are obviously saying that not smoking somehow in your mind in your definitions involves something that is inherently more painful, more difficult, more of a strain, more of a struggle than simply choosing to smoke. That's the whole point. You are defining not smoking as being more painful and less pleasurable than smoking.

So you have to find out why you are defining it that way. Find out what the definition is. Then when you know what the definition is you have assigned arbitrarily to the concept of not smoking that makes not smoking seem more painful than choosing to smoke, when you know what that definition is it will be easier for you to switch the definition. And when you have assigned not smoking less pain than continuing to smoke, you will automatically be motivated to not smoke. You will be a person who never did. That's how it works. The assignment - the assignment of pain and pleasure is what you're dealing with. You have a definition now to which you have assigned pain but less pain than the change you ideally say you want to make. So you have to change the amount of pain that you say exists in the change you want to make. You have to allow that to become less painful than what you're doing if you really actually want to be motivated to change, because you always choose what you are motivated to choose based on what you define your motivation to be. That's all there is to it.

So get in touch with what it could be that you're assigning to the idea of not smoking that makes that choice seem so much more difficult than doing what you're choosing to do. Simple as that. It is as simple as that. I guarantee you.

**Asker:** I follow.

### The Connection Between Smoking and Arthritis

**Asker:** I follow. Pleasant dream. Can you take one more thing? Okay. So um does it have does this somewhere is a relation to me being sick with arthritis the smoking and arthritis?

**Bashar:** Well let me ask you a question. If you stopped smoking, does that mean you would have to look at something or focus on something you're reluctant to look at now? Does the smoking - does the choice to smoke give you a reason to not look at something you're afraid to look at? Does it occupy your senses? Does it cover something up as a smoke screen?

**Asker:** Probably.

**Bashar:** Well what?

**Asker:** I never could Define I mean I just know this.

**Bashar:** What are you afraid to look at?

**Asker:** Your concept of mortality.

**Bashar:** No.

**Asker:** Are you sure?

**Bashar:** The concept of mortality. Yes. Concepts of mortality involve the concept of physical pain and suffering such as the concept of arthritis, stiffening, pain, in movement, in flexibility, death. You follow?

**Asker:** Yeah it's interesting because I'm absolutely Not Afraid about death or dying but you are creating the idea of pain. You follow?

**Asker:** I think so.

**Bashar:** All right. The arthritic pain in that sense therefore is a manifestation of a deeper fear that you have not yet acknowledged or faced. Your fear of your mortality is unconscious still. It is not the idea exactly I'll be more specific. It is not the idea exactly of fear of dying - it is fear of mortality. You are afraid that you are a mortal. You understand? You're not afraid of dying - you're afraid that you are a mortal being. That's what you are afraid of. Does that make sense to you?

**Asker:** In a sense actually to some degree to get out of it you would rather die than be a mortal being as you have been taught to Define mortality. Does that make sense? I don't mean mortality in the sense of death - I mean mortality in the sense of having to live. You are in pain that you are having to live in the way your world has taught you physical life should be. Therefore in a sense you are actually doing things that will kill yourself because you don't want to live the way people tell you physical life has to be lived, because to you you've been taught it's painful. So you're manifesting exactly that idea. Yes. Look, arthritic pain - they were right. I'm going to get out of here. This isn't for me.

**Asker:** Well I started smoking much earlier than my arthritis pain came in.

**Bashar:** Okay yes I know. Okay but that's the point - the smoking was the symptom that you then used to prove the point, to justify your ability to continue to do that.

**Asker:** But but I was always a very a big Rebel and never yes.

**Bashar:** I know. Don't you get it? Accepted what people said - this is the way to live. Pay attention. There is no need to Rebel if you don't feel that what they're saying is true. Right. You are afraid that what they're saying is true - that's why you Rebel. When you know your own truth, you don't have to Rebel - you just say that's not me. Thank you. You're right in that sense. But you see the Act and the physical energy that goes along with actual opposition as you say Rebellion means you actually believe you are controlled by them, otherwise you wouldn't have to Rebel. A transparent window doesn't have to rebel against the light - it just goes right through. But if you Rebel, then in a sense you're actually saying that you believe what they're telling you and so you have to recoil from it. But recoiling from it is a reinforcement that they have power and you don't.

That's what we're saying. You actually bought into the idea that life is painful, that mortality is painful, and that's why you felt you had to Rebel. When you actually let the idea go, you will be at peace. You will breathe easier with yourself and then you will be clear and will not need to obscure the issue with the smoke screen. That's the point.

So take a breath now and with every deep breath feel yourself being washed clear of any need for Rebellion. Simply create reunion with yourself and what you know to be true so that you don't need to oppose - you simply know what is not true for you and you can be at ease and breathe easily with yourself and with being yourself. And all the pain will dissolve in warmth and freedom and expandability.

So again pleasant dreams. Thank you because you have help but you can help yourself if you understand what you are doing and pay attention to the power of paradox as we have just Illustrated again. Because when you said but I rebelled - that means you believe you're a prisoner and that's what your reality reflects. One who knows she is free does not need to Rebel. Right? Only those that believe they are imprisoned have to Rattle their cages.

