---
heading: Part 1
title: "Secrets"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1991-09-01
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 130
tags: ['pyramids', 'fibonacci']
---



## New Year, New Beginnings

We also extend to you a joyous new orbit. We would at this time recognize that you in your new year, your new orbit of your planet around your central star recognize that it is a time forward, new cycles, new beginnings. 

Recognize that it is a time for new cycles, new beginnings when we would like to in a sense, as you would say in your language, just finish up a little old business before we get on with the new ideas we will share this year of your time in these interactions.

The first part of these ideas may to some seem a little bit technical, but understand these are important for these kinds. For it is paramount in your day and age, on your planet, in your civilization, that you begin to get a grasp for how to create certain things, certain devices, certain ideas, to bring them into physiological manifestation so that you can take advantage of new ways of doing things, new technology that are more aligned and more in accord with the elevation of the vibration, the acceleration of the energy taking place within your own consciousness now. And thus must reflect itself this acceleration outwardly in your physical reality through the expansion of the imagination and the creation of new ways of doing things that are more harmonious and will allow you more capability of manifestation on all levels in your reality.

## Technology and the Cone Device

Last year of your time we began to talk about the idea of the creation of a particular device. It is a simple device, no moving part. The idea is expressed in the shape of a cone. And we describe and discuss the idea that the shape of the cone acts in many ways as an antenna to bring through the idea of etheric energy into physiological manifestation.

Now there are many different shapes that cones can take and certainly you will find that in general many of the different parameters and shapes of cones of the different proportions of cones will have many different kinds of effects. But there are what you might call some idealized proportions that take advantage of the mathematical principles that exist in your physiological reality that your physical reality is built upon in terms of energy patterns in certain ratios and proportions. And if you will build many of your new devices to be in accordance with those proportions, then they will have the ability to align with, resonate with, harmonize with those energies and bring through those energies in new and heretofore unexperienced ways or at least ways that have not been experienced on your planet for quite some time.

Much of this idea, these technologies are not really new, but they are forgotten your civilization. And we now will take time to help you remember some of these ideas and exactly why they work the way they do. But we urge you as we give you this information to go out and experiment to actually literally build these things out of whatever material you so desire using your imagination, using your intuition. Do not leave it in the realm of your imagination. Now is the time for action on your planet, more so than ever before. Now is the time for creating these ideas to be physical in your world so that you can see the physical effects that they can have in building.

### Fibonacci Proportions and the 33.9° Cone

Therefore, these ideas of cone devices of translation devices from the etheric to the physical. Again, certain proportions shall in a sense resonate more powerfully than others. We have already told you about the idea of one particular proportion that is built upon what you call the Fibonacci sequence of numbers. All of this is easy for you to look up. But the idea being that when built in these proportions, you arrive at a cone whose apex angle is approximately in your terms 33.9°. This will be similar to the idea of what you call and recognize in your remnant memory of the wizard's hat, the tower of babel, Jacob's ladder. All these references to the idea of these shapes that act as antennas to bring energy down, as you say euphemistically, from heaven to earth.

So build them, experiment with them out of different materials, different sizes in different locations on your planet and see what effect you get.

### The 33.3 Units Cone and 19.5° Latitude

We would like now to share with you two other versions of the cone. So that you can again allow yourself to understand that there are different resonances you can tap into and get different effects as you play with these concepts. We have given you now this one cone built on Fibonacci proportions with the apex angle of 33.9°. The next shall be the idea of a cone whose height in your terms would be 33.3 units whatever you wish the unit to be and whose circular base will be in circumference not diameter in circumference also 33.3 units.

When you build a cone of this dimension, you will find that you tap into different levels of energy, certain kinds of earth energy very specifically. Some of you are already familiar with what we are about to say, but this will point out more strongly perhaps this principle to you. For if you build a cone 33 and a third units high with a base of circumference 33 and a third units, you will find that the apex angle will be 19.5°. Some of you already understand from some of the work that has been done on your planet by other individuals that what you would call your 19.5 degrees of latitude north and south will generally represent on most planets the locations the latitude of where you will observe most of the vorticular action most of the upwelling action represented by the idea in physical terms of cyclones, cyclonic movements, volcanoes on your planet and so forth. In some of the gaseous planets, the idea of some of the swirling vorticular spots, hurricane, vorticity, cyclonic motions also will be found at 19.5° in your northern and southern hemispheres on these planets as well. This is representative of an energy vortex that is the result of the interaction interdimensionally of certain dynamics that are built upon the tetrahedral matrix.

### The Great Pyramid Proportions

Also the third idea of the cone though it can be represented in many different ways and so can all cones. They do not have to be round in that sense necessarily work but to some degree there is advantage to this. However, when necessary, they can be rendered into the idea of tetrahedral structures and pyramidal structures that are foresighted. But the idea specifically to allow you to understand that this Fibonacci and phi ratio mathematics are very important and representative of the underlying template and matrix of your physical reality. We give you a final illustration that was understood in your culture long ago and exemplified and represented in a particular edifice that exists upon your planet.

Now these phi ratios as we have again discussed is the idea of the ratio of all natural things as they grow. One thing to another, one component of any device to another that is natural and growth will exhibit the idea of a certain mathematical ratio between all its components. And that ratio will be the phi ratio as you understand it in mathematics which is 1 to 1.618. Again briefly for example if you take the first part of your finger and consider that a unit of one the second part will be 1 to 1.618. The third part in that sense if you consider this one the third part will be also 1.618 times bigger than the second. This is exhibited throughout your body throughout all growing things. This ratio of 1 to 1.618.

If you take a line standing up and you make that a unit of one and you make it perpendicular to a line at its base that is 1.618 times bigger than the unit of one. And you thus draw from the top of the standing line at the apex lines down to the edges of the line. The base in that sense you will have a triangle. This triangle whether represented in conical form or pyramidal form doesn't matter is exactly the proportions of what you call your great pyramid at Giza. It is exactly that ratio the phi ratio of height to base. And you will find thus that when you create such a triangle of 1 to 1.618. The corner angle will be exactly 51° and the apex will be 78° as exactly exemplified within your great pyramid at what you call your Giza.

This taps into directly etheric energy and transmits and translates it into physical reality for a variety of uses. It can be for the idea of the accessing of knowledge and information. It can in many cases literally depending upon the material it is built out of the location and the size convert etheric energy literally into electric energy, magnetic energy. Sometimes even literal manifestation can occur. And this is why you remembered this shape when it came to the idea of the witch's hat, the wizard's hat. For it was the idea of manifestation that you were attempting to remember from long ago when you understood this technology but then forgot it.

Also, it is the idea of the manifestation of why you have not that you necessarily have to do this, but why you created the idea of what you call in your society the dunce cap. Why is it pointed in that way? To make you smarter to say that you can bring more information in when you are standing under this shape because it acts like an antenna. It acts like a lens. It is not in that sense for no reason that these things exist. But they are fragments of ancient memories in your culture. And now we talk about them with you in this day and time to bring this information back so that you can use these things.

So we thank you for allowing us to bring you this refresher course. Bring you up to date and again we urge you go out and play with these things. Don't just leave it in your mind. Build them. Experiment with them. See what they do for believe me you will need them.

## The Ultimate Secret

On the first day of your new year, the channel himself was in discussion on this subject with a member of your gathering. 

We find that it is important enough to share now and expand upon for it is something you all need to understand. And thus we take from the conversation that was had the synchronicity that this is indeed the first and most important thing we can say to you this day of your time.

Many of you for quite some time in your investigations into what you typically call new age information have come across also the concept of many things that have been hidden for a long time. 

What you call secrets and what many times in many of your minds goes hand in hand with the idea of the keeping of secrets conspiracy. Now we are not saying that people on your planet do not make attempts to hide things. We are not saying that you have created your society to be what it is. You have compartmentalized yourself. 

You keep secrets from yourself in a sense. And thus it is no surprise that that idea of how you treat yourselves inwardly should be reflected outwardly in the structure of your society in that you create organizations that are compartmentalized and thus have the ability to function by keeping secrets. Keeping information or at least attempting to keep information from other members that they deem should not have that information for one reason or another.

But now we would like to really illuminate, pun intended for those that get it, illuminate the idea beyond these ideas. And that is this. The ultimate idea behind all these concepts of secrecy, behind the very notion of why that exists is to understand that there is one ultimate secret. Are you ready to know what that is? 


**The ultimate secret is that there are no secrets.**


I mean this literally, there are no secrets. 

individuals may make attempts to hide information for a variety of positive and or negative reasons from time to time depending upon circumstances and situations. 

We are not saying that you cannot in that sense keep something to yourself. However, when we say there are no secrets, what we are reminding you of is that every single one of you has the ability to access any piece of information at all. And in that sense, nothing really can be kept a secret if you have a desire to know it. 

There are no secrets ultimately in the sense that everything is accessible to all of you. Nothing is kept from you in creation. Nothing.

But the idea, and here is where it gets very interesting in your society, the idea itself, pay attention to this, the idea itself that there are secrets is the first step toward the idea of control.

Keeping you trying to figure out what the secrets are is the way to actually remain within the idea of control or the domination of those that want you to believe more than anything else that there is such a thing as a secret you don't know. It doesn't even many times matter whether there's any information behind that. The very idea itself that there can be such a thing as some secret you can never know is all it takes to keep you running in circles.


The idea is again not that there haven't been individuals who have in some senses participated in what you might euphemistically call a conspiracy here and there or attempted to keep something hidden here and there. But the idea itself of getting caught up in the fact that there's a secret that you must break, that there is a secret you must expose, is part of the manipulation. When many individuals on your planet think they are getting to the point where they're about to expose a secret, they think in that sense they are breaking the manipulation. When in fact by believing that there is a secret they are reinforcing the concept of being manipulated.

All you need to do in any circumstance is understand from the beginning there are no secrets. Every bit of information that exists is available to each and every one of you if you want it. If you want it. And that's the key because many times you will find that you will actually not want it because you love the game. And you might create fear within yourself to find out what it is that you are afraid to find out because for some reason you may have a definition or a belief about what that will mean. It will lead to this. It will lead to that. And so in many ways you actually perpetuate the game because you don't really want to know. But I tell you this, anything you really, really, really want to know is available to you. There are no secrets. None whatsoever. Take that to heart.


## Recommended Reading: Conversations with God

We remind you not because any one thing necessarily needs to work any better than anything else. All things being equal and they are again we remind you that take advantage of what you already have available to you in your society. Allow yourself to understand that we will once again at this time recommend suggest to each and every one of you that because you have already created it and it's already available to you that you make use of some of the literature that exists that can help you because it is very clarifying and again we suggest for now at this time one primary suggestion and recommendation the creation of the literature by the individual you know as the name of Walsh that book you have called Conversations with God. It is clear. It is direct. If you will read it until you know it, you will never ever need to speak to anyone but yourself again to know anything. So I would suggest you learn it. I suggest you live it. And that is all it takes.


### Relationship and Past Life Information

At this timing then once again and once again in return for the gift you are giving to our civilization in allowing us to reflect to you these things you already know but we are happy to remind you of in return for this gift of sharing. I ask you now in what way may we be of service to you?

**Participant:** Um it's very nice to be back here. We are very happy you are back there. Um I have a I have two questions. One one is um I spoke to you um in the past about a relationship I was involved in for a long time. Okay. And um something my relationship with that person uh was took a lot of power away from me. I mean I I gave my power over to him. I thank you for your honesty. Um I asked you about past life information concerning him and him and I which you felt was not necessary to know at that time. Um I feel uh as though it's information that I would like to have access to now.

**Bashar:** And what has your own imagination told you about this so far?

**Participant:** Um I feel that there's something that he's done to me or did to me in the past perhaps repeatedly. I don't know.

**Bashar:** Um what has that got to do with now?

**Participant:** Um, it's finding some level of it's it's I I would like to name what it is to to be able to bring it up to the surface and perhaps let it go.

**Bashar:** Name it. Name name what happened. If you wish, you can be general or specific as you wish. Um, name something that you believe in energy resonance feels like what you think might have been done to you in the past.

**Participant:** Um, I feel arbitrary anyway, right? I feel perhaps uh my beliefs have always been a um something that he's tried to um quash in some way. Well, not always. Not always. In what sense? Not always. Not always. He hasn't always. No, not always. Right. Um, but quash in what way when you believe that has taken place? And why should that quashing of then affect you now? Are you giving your power away some more? Probably. Yes, probably. Is this something you enjoy? Um, obviously I do. All right. Is there something else you would enjoy doing more? Um, self-empowerment, I think, would be probably preferable. Or being Are you sure? You don't have to do that. You can do anything you want. Anything at all? I just feel that there's something I can't let go. There's something that you can't let go of. Yeah. Oh, and what might that be?

I'll ask the question this way, and perhaps it will provide illumination for you. Whatever it is you imagine that you cannot let go of and you don't necessarily right now have to know any specifics about what that might be. If even such exists, if you were to imagine that you did let go of it, whatever it is, what would the difference in your life be? How would your life be different?

**Participant:** Um, I would be more myself.

**Bashar:** And what does that mean? Can you give us a practical example of what that means in terms of your behavior? What would it mean in behavior to be more of yourself?

**Participant:** Well, autonomy. Yes.

**Bashar:** But in behavior. In behavior. Yes. Behavior. How would you act differently than your act now? I didn't ask you what you will have less of. I asked you what you will have more of.

**Participant:** More self love.

**Bashar:** More self love. All right. That sounds like a pleasurable thing to you. Yes. Mhm. How do you know? How do you know that loving yourself more will be pleasurable?

**Participant:** Because I experience it.

**Bashar:** You do in periodically. Oh, periodically. I see. In ways. Well, then let me ask you this question. What's different about those periods than this period? Why do you experience it in only some periods and not in others?

**Participant:** Because I'm a human being.

**Bashar:** What's that got to do?

**Participant:** Well, it means sometimes it's hard and sometimes it's more easy.

**Bashar:** I see. Do you understand that that's simply a belief and not a law of nature?

**Participant:** Yes, I do.

**Bashar:** Well, then if it's not a law of nature, whose law is it? That it's sometimes hard and sometimes easy?

**Participant:** Something I created.

**Bashar:** Exactly. Do you enjoy that law?

**Participant:** No, I don't.

**Bashar:** Then what law would you prefer to have instead? Make up a law right now that you prefer.

**Participant:** The one that allows me to be myself constantly.

**Bashar:** Well, do you believe that that law has much force as any other law you have created?

**Participant:** Yes, I do.

**Bashar:** Do you really?

**Participant:** Yes, I do.

**Bashar:** Well, all right. Well, if that's true, how do you feel right now?

**Participant:** Great.

**Bashar:** All right. Now, if in the next moment you feel in your terms less than great, that will be because why?

**Participant:** I've forgotten.

**Bashar:** No, no, no. No more forgetting. None of you are forgetting anything anymore. If you feel less than great in the next moment, why will that be? Yes, exactly. Because you will have chosen to which means what? That it's still under your control. Therefore, you have never lost self-empowerment. The issue is just to understand you're using your self-empowerment to pretend you're not self-empowered. You see the difference? Yes, I do. If you can remember that when you don't feel self-empowered, it's because you're using your power to play the game of powerlessness, as soon as you remember that, you will be self-empowered again in its aligned sense. You understand that? Yes, I do. No matter what issue may have happened past or not, when you understand that what you feel is the result of what you choose to believe about your relationship to it and that you're choosing that stance, then you will remember that you're using your self-empowerment to pretend that you're not. It is not true that you are ever ever ever ever ever nor can it ever be true that you are ever truly any of you actually not self-empowered. It's impossible. It's impossible. You are made the way you are. You are a creator. You can't help that. There's nothing you can do about that. But what you can do with your ultimate creative ability that the infinite has given you is you can pretend you don't have it. Mhm. But when you remember that you're just pretending you don't have it. It instantly reminds you that you have it and you're simply using it to pretend you don't. And that snaps you right back to where you say you prefer to be. Regardless of what the issues you would like to get lost in might be, you understand? It can be that simple if you prefer it to be.

Now, we are not invalidating any process that any of you believe is important for you in terms of getting back in touch with this feeling, that experience, this situation. If that's what works to bring you into present time, so be it. We are not taking that away from you or saying that any one way is better than any other way. However, we simply remind you. Remind are you paying attention? Process while valid process is always simply the amount of time you believe is necessary before you will allow yourself to see the obvious because you already know it. You already know what you can be. But it's the amount of time you believe you need before you will give yourself permission to just be who you are. That's what process in your reality is. Because you do already know who you are. But if you're playing the game of pretending that you don't, then whatever you create to be a process to get in touch with this and get in touch with that is what for some reason you believe is necessary until finally one day you just simply say, "Oh, all right. Enough of that. I would like to now be who I am."

The irony of this, and again this is not an invalidation of the process experience itself, but the irony of this in some ways it can actually be said that nothing about the process itself intrinsically made it any easier really for you to be able to simply one day decide to just be yourself. You have always had that power. Does that make sense? Yeah. Does this make some sense to you? Does make sense. Does this help you? It helps me that I would be being myself if um if I wanted some sort of process by which you is that what you enjoy by all means in one.

### Question 2: The Observer and Oversoul

**Participant:** Okay. Um my other question is um the last session we had here you were talking about the observer. Yes. And I just had this um this um this thought that was the observer God in some senses all things are God as you say in your language but since things do create themselves to exist on level it could be said that it was one face one reflection of what you may call the infinite at the same time it might be more precise in terms of describing its relationship to energy within creation as being the oversoul of the association of worlds to which our civilization belongs. You understand that concept? The oversoul of all the civilizations of which our association and affiliation or what you may call a federation is made up. Does that make sense to you? Yes, it does. Does that help you? Yes, it does help. Thank you.

### Question 3: Samaria, Hungary, and Sirius Connection

**Bashar:** You are next then you. Number two, do you know who you are? All right. Number one, good day to you.

**Participant:** Good day. Um I've just returned from my trip to Budapest as we had discussed before I left. Yes, Budapest. All right. And it was um it was a roller in Buddha Budapest. Um both every day both. All right. Um and it was quite a roller coaster of an adventure. And uh I had a theme park there. Well, I think my life was the theme park. Very good. Always is for all of you. Uhhuh. And so, and so I just wanted to say I'm I'm enjoyed the experience. I was also um at times unhappy in the experience, but I'm processing it and I'm very glad to be back in your presence physically again and um you're not in my physical presence. Well, in your the well back here with everybody and all chatting with you. Understood.

Um some questions I had I I met some wonderful people related to the UFO community there. UFO. Yes. I went to a conference and they said that there is a strong connection between Samaria and Hungary. They also have a belief that they have a strong connection to uh alien life force because their language is so unique and they feel a connection.

**Bashar:** There is no one on your planet who does not. Understood about that. We discussed that. Okay.

**Participant:** Um but I found it interesting that in the past we had discussed the fact that my my earliest uh experience of writing of being a writer was in Samaria. Oh and I made the connection that that Hungary was also connected and you once said that Sirius was also connected to Samaria. Okay. Can you elaborate on that and what my connection is to all of this?

**Bashar:** It is simply the ongoing process you have created of recognizing more and more of your ability to function in a translator or scribing way to allow yourself to translate or bring through information that pulls the pieces together of the path you are walking to make more sense out of how to communicate different ideas to different people in your reality in time. It is your process of collecting bits and pieces of yourself, bringing yourself together, remembering yourself by making these connections and recognizing them for what they symbolize to you energetically so that you can expand your ability to communicate in the way that you agreed to when you came into this life.

**Participant:** Okay. Um, there's a possibility of an invitation to return there as the guest of some friends of mine there who are going to have another UFO conference.

**Bashar:** All right. Have a good time.

**Participant:** So, I I assume that that would be in that capacity.

**Bashar:** You assume or you know, I know. Thank you. Um, and have a good time. Thank you.

### Question 4: Grays and Screenplay Project

**Participant:** I um relating to that about the translating. I'm very excited to begin a new screenplay about the abduction experience, especially my own uh relating to the grays. All right. And I've been asking for conscious contact with the grays. I want this to be a unique project that will not only how can it be anything but Well, that's true. But I want mine to focus not just on the human experience with the grays, but also the I want to be a translator for the grays. All right. and a communicator of what they're doing and what their program is all about. All right? But again, remember that when you say the grays and they, you are also recognizing that there are many different factions of gray being and there may be many different agendas and one aspect or agenda may be more in alignment with your own chosen agenda as well. It doesn't necessarily mean that you will represent all of them even if you represent some of them. You follow?

**Participant:** Yes. Well, I'd like it I'd like it to focus on my own experience with them. Um because I'm sure there are many other humans who are having similar ones. Yes. And I I feel frustrated in that why because the only experience I've had has been very limited and under hypnosis and I'm there are times when I question that it's valid for me that it's even happening. I see. And I I've been asking constantly other than the time I was in Budapest when I felt that I I couldn't deal with it. I've been asking for conscious contact. Yes. With them and with my children. Yes. And I haven't been receiving any.

**Bashar:** In what way did it come about that this idea occurred to you to write this new screenplay?

**Participant:** Um, I've been wanting I felt that when I started to explore my experiences.

**Bashar:** When did it gel in the sense that you all of a sudden had the spark to go ahead with it?

**Participant:** I'd say within the last couple of months.

**Bashar:** Yes. And why do you not recognize that as the beginning of communication that will strengthen with time? Okay. You have asked for assistance and it has been given to you in the sense of a go-ahead. Go ahead and do this. This will lay the foundation for what is to come and prepare the way for more ability to interact when you begin. That in and of itself was the initiation of the idea of contact. You understand?

**Participant:** So as I begin to to create the project, then the conscious contacts will begin.

**Bashar:** Yes. As long as you can keep your expectation out of the way. Okay. Um, but you understand that you simply did not allow yourself to see that that was one of the first bits of the initiation of contact that you in a sense were urged to move ahead with this project at all. You have to begin to see the whole pattern and understand it for what it is and every component in it for what it is. You understand? Yes. Therefore, in that you asked for it, it is given to you now in this way, but it did not come in the way you expected. So, you didn't see it for what it was. Again, the expectation. Uhhuh. You understand? Yes. So, keep the expectation flat and you will have then the ability to understand that when things like this occur, it is in fact the answer to your request or at least the beginning of it. You will be able to see it as part of the answer to your request because it can't always just happen as you say like that because again many of you are not ready for it to happen like that not in the way that ultimately serves the agenda and the path you chose. So recognize when it does happen in the ways that it may happen. For they will not always be the way that you may think or expect. But if you're open, you will be able to see them when they occur for what they are.

**Participant:** Did they contact me while I was in Budapest?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant:** Was I abducted during those times?

**Bashar:** Only on the etheric. So therefore, in that sense, again, there was a contact, but not physiologically were you taken anywhere.

**Participant:** Right. I didn't sense that at all. And I've been um wanting to connect more with my children as always. And I sensed I've been told also by somebody that my son Adam's birthday is this month. And I got a flash yesterday of the date January 15th and that he'll be 10 years old. Can you verify that?

**Bashar:** Our understanding of how that being cycle would intersect with your reality would be closer to the idea of the month you call March.

**Participant:** Can you give me a specific date?

**Bashar:** Seven. And the age 10 will do.

**Participant:** Okay. So if I give him a party the same way I did for Ariel and Adrienne would um I feel that would be a way of connecting with him, bonding with him more.

**Bashar:** Is that a question or a statement? A statement. I should have said it more as a statement. There are no shoulds, but you could have chosen to. I choose to. Thank you. Then do so if that is what pleases you and know that there will be an effect. Okay. It is only in your doubt that no effect is created. And lastly, in your life. Thank you.

### Question 5: Zilton Horvath and Cataclysms

**Participant:** Lastly, I came across an individual named Zilton Horvath in uh Budapest who claims that he's being abducted by the grays and that he's being trained on their ship for the coming cataclysms. That he will be one of 17 leaders in the world.

**Bashar:** Again, first of all, remember that many of the things that you are labeling as cataclysms will not necessarily occur in the way they were originally predicted. There is transformation already going on on your planet in a variety of ways but nothing is absolute as has been originally said. We will not go into this discussion about this individual at this time.

**Participant:** Okay. Thank you.

### Question 6: Chakras and Spiritual Energy

**Bashar:** Number two. Hi Bashar. It's great to have her again and I wanted to do continue our discussion of chakras and tell me teachings a little more. All right. uh specifically as I understand her teachings uh if we operate in the lower seven chakras there's limited energy and we need to be careful on where we put our energy and effectively if we can operate in the higher and spiritual chakras there's unlimited energy and an abundance of that and we don't need to be concerned about that at all and I'd like from you it's just a verification is that is my interpretation correct so however in a sense so however However, do not invalidate the idea of the physiological chakras as if they had nothing at all to do with spirituality. Number six, uh, acceleration and evolution is the product of integration and acceptance of all that is in a sense of lower frequency into the self. Not the exclusion of, not the shutting off of, not the devaluing of. They are there for a reason. And thus they must be maintained in balance with all for you to gain the advantage, so to speak, of the ascendancy or the acceleration. You cannot just cut them off and think that they have nothing at all to do with anything, if that is what you meant.

**Participant:** Uh, actually, no, I didn't mean that you would cut them off. I I uh very much feel that by working on the spiritual yes they are a part of that also I just wanted to be in touch with the fact that you do have much more energy that way and you're not you're not limited.

**Bashar:** Because you are looking at the idea as the physical representation as being contained within the energy representation rather than the idea that the energy is contained within the physical sense that will increase your experience of the energy on all levels. Because you understand that physical reality is coming from within your consciousness and that your consciousness is not subject to being within physical reality. Yes. So in that sense, in that context, yes, it makes perfect sense to come from that attitude. Does that make sense? Yes. Uhhuh.

### Question 7: Spiritual vs Physical Focus

**Participant:** In some sense, the ide is in terms of uh you know, obviously what I'd like to do is be always in the spiritual energy and work with all the other the Lord chakras in that way. Ideally have lots of uh lot well I'd love to and I'm sort of questioning to what extent am I there and I would a question like to what extent are you aware uh coming from the spiritual uh chakra from the spiritual and working on that level as opposed to simply working the lower chakra and I guess my question is really is it is it proper to say what time do I spend uh working the spiritual levels levels as much as the lower chakras or is it more appropriate to say how much energy do I uh expend uh on the spiritual levels working with the lower chakras as opposed to simply working the lower chakras? I see. I am now going to ask you a question if I may. Please. Thank you. Do you want it to be this complicated before I give you any other information? Let me ask you disrupt what it is that you actually prefer. Okay. Let me ask you, am I getting lost in my mental exercises here? Back a little bit. Okay. Uh, give it to you this way. Uh-huh. Open up to this idea. May sound a little cryptic, but maybe not. Open up. If you will understand that physical reality is spiritual, then there will be no difference. And that's the truth.

**Participant:** Did you get that? Yes, I heard that. And at the same time, let me just say my own experience is that I'm probably more focused on the physical realities than I am on the spiritual. And as such, I need to shift more into the spiritual to have the whole thing.

**Bashar:** Pay attention. Okay. And as you just said, they're both spiritual. Okay. Pay attention. If you understand that physical reality is spiritual, then the shift is done. The shift is accomplished because you have allowed physical reality to be spiritual reality simultaneously. It's simply a process of accepting that. It's not a process. Oh, I mean it's simply a an attitude or a way of accepting knowing and in the knowing that that is so, a behaving that it is so and thus a seeing in the reflection of physical reality that it is so. Because again remember physical reality is spirit. It's just in a particular modality but it isn't not spiritual. It is made of your spirit of your consciousness. How can it be anything but spiritual in a sense?

**Participant:** Am I uh spending am I involved in too many different activities such that I'm spreading my energy very thin and such that uh you may be a little bit but I ask you the question that you can always ask yourself are you only choosing to do those things that excite you the most or are you continuing to choose to do things that don't okay that's a good point yeah I need to look at that all right and also this even if you understand that many different kinds of expression may be representative of your highest excitement. All you have to do to let everything work its own timing out is to simply act in any given day on the thing that excites you the most first. Then when you can do nothing else about that thing, act on the next most exciting thing you are capable of doing something about next. And when you can do nothing else about that, do the next most exciting thing you have the ability to do something about to take some action on. When you do it that way, then your day will show you just exactly how many things you need to do. The things you have no time left over to do in that day didn't need to be done. Make sense? Yes. Does that help you? Yes. And let me just repeat what I'm hearing is saying just live in the moment for the day. Don't get caught up in planning too far forward. No, it is all right to have a general idea of where you're going. There is nothing wrong with the idea of planning in a general sense. But also understand that as you go by living in the present, you also create the plan as you go. So don't allow the plan to be too rigid. Otherwise, it gives you no spontaneity to create the plan for who you may be at this moment instead of forcing yourself to continue to be who you planned you were going to be, who you may no longer actually be. Mhm. Okay. Does that make sense in your language? Yes, it does. Did that translate through? Yes, I think it's coming through. Thank you very much, prof.

### Question 8: Cat Behavior and Alpha Energy

**Bashar:** You and then you. Then you and then you. That's four. Number two, do you know who you are? Number three. Number four. Number one. Good day. Good job. Um I have two questions I'd like to ask. All right. When I spoke with you in um October, um there had been an incident that had happened with uh my friend Matt, who is my cat, my feline friend. Yes. who had returned after being away for three years. Yes. So you were telling me how um the dynamic that had happened was that he had taken on uh part of my illness. Yes. And that to prevent me from going farther down than I had in a sense. Yes. There was an agreement between you in that way. An arrangement. Right. Okay. So, um, he came back and he's healthy again and he's home and he's causing in my little apartment complete havoc.

**Bashar:** Congratulations. In what way?

**Participant:** Um, while he was away, I of course, you know, uh have I have another uh cat. Yes. And I have a little dog. Yes. And so the the cat who is a tiny a little cat, she's grown, but she's little, right? Um she he she can't defend herself from him. So she has now I've had to move her. She lives in my walk-in closet practically because he comes after her constantly.

**Bashar:** And for how long? For how long has it been going on?

**Participant:** Since October.

**Bashar:** All right. And uh it just I'll wake up in the middle of the night to a cat fight uh in my bedroom. If she decides she wants to come down early in the morning, it'll you know they'll when when when are you going to take your place as the head cat? So that they will both know who they need to relate to. Okay. because they have an an understanding of their place because you yourself have not yet become who you need to be relative to them in their eyes. So when will you take the position of the alpha cat?

**Participant:** Well, I if I need to do that, I can certainly do that.

**Bashar:** Yes. I suggest that you do.

**Participant:** I've tried using a spray bottle on No, no, no, no.

**Bashar:** What do you mean it's all an emotional thing? It is an emotional thing. It is an energetic thing. It is a being thing. It is a relationship thing. Both to yourself and to them. It is being very different than you normally would be. Learning to become in a sense more cat-like in all the ways that cats symbolize themselves to you that you haven't yet incorporated within your being so that they will have the correct reflection to respond. Now what can you learn from them in terms of how you live your life? How can you be in your idea of what cats symbolize for you more cat-like so they will recognize you as the alpha cat so that everything will have its proper relationship and place within the past tribe. Mhm. Um I'll have to think about family. Mhm. All right. Think about it if you wish. Well, I mean unless you want to help me out. I'll have to think about it later. I But I was helping you out. No, I mean with that specific thing you are. I was helping you with that specific thing. Oh, okay. Do you think Well, let me put it this way. When I suggested the idea of becoming more cat-like, what images went through your head that you dismissed as not being what I meant?

**Participant:** More independence.

**Bashar:** All right. What else?

**Participant:** More strength.

**Bashar:** What else? Uh I think discipline. Discipline. I don't know. Oh yes you do. Perhaps just the opposite in a way. Mhm. Spontaneity. Okay. More playfulness. Mhm. in your life, in the things you do, in relationships on all levels. Are you getting the picture now? Yes. Yes. See how clear it is when you allow yourself to think like a cat. They are attempting to show you the disharmony within yourself between the greater self and the self that is simply uncertain who it wants to be. You understand? Mhm. what we consider to be the bigger self and the smaller self. They're showing you the discord that exists within yourself between what you have created to be two separate parts that are not in harmony. Mhm. Make them one. Make the innocent child self the greater self. Allow the greater self to function as the innocent child. Be one with yourself. Be fluid. Be relaxed with yourself. Be playful with yourself. Be open. Be exploring. Be curious. It will really not kill you. To have many more than nine lives anyway. Okay. Are you understanding? Are you feeling more playful with it? And believe me, if your mind conjured up a picture of you actually rolling around on the floor like a cat and dismissed it as too silly, then it's not too silly at all. And I would suggest that you actually do it to see how it feels. Because if you don't do that, how are you going to know how it feels to be attacked? Now, I don't necessarily say I have to go so far as to catch these mice. No. But then again, However, you need to get in touch with the essence of what it feels to be that kind of being so that you can reflect and represent the integration that they will then see and respond to accordingly and everything will fall into its proper relation when it falls within its proper relationship within you. So, they are helping you do that if you will only take the hint. Yes. I was I've been trying to observe what it is. And you have to do more than observe. You have to get in and feel it and be it and ask it through. They're showing you how to ask it through. So ask it through and then everything will be perfect.

### Question 9: Missing Purse

**Participant:** Okay. All right. All right. Thank you. Does that help? Yes, it does. I have one more question. This past Monday, my uh handbag, my purse disappeared from my home, from my apartment.

**Bashar:** I cannot help you with this. Someone else will. Someone else will help me. Is that not what we said? Are we having difficulty with the translation devices tonight? Someone else will help you. Okay. It is not our place at this time. We will be interfering with something that you are going through and someone else will help you with it. Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Maybe even the cat will help you. Okay. If you will follow the suggestions we've already discussed because cats can see things that you don't think are there. Remember? Yes. All right. Then maybe with a little bit of that energy, you may find your but with it and see what happens. But let someone else help you with this. It is not our place at this time. Thank you. Thank you.

### Question 10: Spirit and Ghost Experiences

**Participant:** Hi. And are you good day? I'm I'm really nervous.

**Bashar:** Nervous? Do you mean upside down excitement?

**Participant:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right. Then we are all excited with you. Okay. Um Okay. Um ever since I was can remember, I don't know when it first happened, but I've um I don't know how to explain it, but actually I know how. Um, every house I've ever lived in has um been haunted or I've had experiences with spirits or ghosts or something.

**Bashar:** You have lots of friends, both physical and non-physical.

**Participant:** It feels like it. And I just wondered um what it was or who it was or I mean there are many different beings.

**Bashar:** But the idea simply is that you resonate on a particular frequency bandwidth that allows you to be sensitive to see into other dimensional realities and attract to you beings in those other dimensional realities because you radiate on a certain frequency that to them is very visible like a magnet. You understand? Yes. So the question really is not so much who are they because there are a number of them but what do you want to do with this talent and ability? Uh yes. Okay. Well, what do you want to do with this talent and ability to be in the midst of things to be where the action is as you say of the gate between two worlds? What do you want to do with it?

**Participant:** Um I don't know. I haven't really thought of it. I was more curious if but you said it doesn't matter.

**Bashar:** Did it? Not really. I mean sometimes the idea is that they are individuals you may have known in other lives. Sometimes they are simply wandering spirits who are simply attracted to your energy. Sometimes they are other dimensional beings that you have familiar relationships with and agreements with. They are a number of different things. And that's why to list and categorize really would be to focus you on details that will not necessarily serve you at this time. A primary question that would really help you is the one that we have asked. What do you want to do about this? What excites you about this concept? Anything at all?

**Participant:** Oh yeah. Well, I think I'm just curious about what it all means.

**Bashar:** But why is this exciting to you? Um um being able to to see is exciting. Being able to see what what I think I'm Yes. Well, you are sorry if I was. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. You are now in that you know that you are seeing these things. What does that mean to you? And what do you want to do with it? What would you like to do with this talent?

**Participant:** Um I don't know.

**Bashar:** Yes, you do. I do. Maybe you can tell me. I can help you tell me. Okay, let's as you say in your language, go back back in time back back in time which of course doesn't exist but back in time nevertheless because in a sense it does exist as you create it. But aside from that and however back in time when you were younger younger younger younger is there any particular time or age at which you wish to stop going backwards in your back practice where would you like to stop that feels really good where would I like to stop this yes if you're counting back the years of your life is there any particular year or age at which you would like to stop that feels very powerful, very good, very creative, very alive, very vibrant, very resonant, very energetic, very light, very playful, very happy. Anything any representation of that idea does a certain age come to mind more than any other?

**Participant:** Um, in your youth? When I was around 12.

**Bashar:** All right. Why was that age so particularly representative of these kinds of energies? What was going on?

**Participant:** Um I was uh um I used to get in contact with with spirits. Yes. And what were you doing with it? Why was it so enjoyable then? Cuz it was fun cuz it felt powerful and it was it was fun. I remember enjoying doing it but I got scared and so we stopped to sing.

**Bashar:** Why did you get scared?

**Participant:** Because weird things were happening.

**Bashar:** What? I don't know. You know Yes, you do. little pictures falling off walls and doors slamming and and why did that scare you?

**Participant:** Because I didn't really understand or maybe I thought I was going to lose control.

**Bashar:** I a Why did you believe that? That I was going to lose control. That's where did you get that belief from? Um who gave it to you? Well, everybody else. Thank you. Your reality showed you what you were capable of doing. That you got scared and believed you were going to lose control comes from someone else's reality. Nothing to do with you. Would you like to let that go? Or do you want to carry that bag around for a few more years? No. No. I don't want to be afraid anymore. I'd love to be able to just to have a chat with them. Let it go because you don't have to be afraid. That's only someone else, parents, society, friends telling you this is something to be afraid of. You understand? Yes. So, but you exhibit the power. Creation does not make pointless creation. You would not have the ability were it not something you could use to serve you in positive and beneficial ways. The fact that you can do it in and of itself is enough to show you that's who you are. That's what you're all about. You don't have to be afraid of it. It's like being afraid of yourself to be afraid of it. There's no reason to be afraid of yourself. At least no positive and constructive reason. But many people will give you all sorts of reasons that they think are good for you to be afraid of yourself. Oh, that's scary. Oh, that's demonic. Oh, that's satanic. Oh, you're a witch. Oh, it's bother again. Again, Again, again. But it won't happen this time. Don't be afraid. You have enough cooling water within you to quench any torch put in your face if you will only give in to the flow of that energy. This is the paradox. you have to incorporate. The paradox is is that the more now you actually allow yourself to go with the flow of these abilities, the more you will be capable of creating a reality wherein you will have nothing to be afraid of. That's the paradox. You understand? Yeah. So allow yourself to understand that timing is everything. And this is now on your planet, the day and age, the era of transformation. It's why all of you are now in groups and gatherings all around your world talking about expansion of consciousness and being able to perceive that other dimensions of reality and recognizing things that you here before didn't believe existed and exploring all these different ideas. That should be another sign to you that this is par for the course as you say that this is a natural thing in this day and age on your planet and it is nothing to be afraid of. And again paradoxically it is only the fear of it that would create you to experience anything of a negative nature anyway in that kind of energy stream. Why attract life? By being taught to be afraid, you become the fear vibration. By becoming the fear vibration, by going to that bandwidth, to that channel, to that dial on your energy machine of self, you then can only tune in the experiences of negativity. But if you go to the channel of knowing that this is your truth, this is who you are, that this is natural for you, then the only thing you can possibly get are the reflections of it being natural for you. Does that make sense to you? This is physics. It's as simple as that. It really is. It doesn't have to be any more complicated than that. It doesn't have to be that you have to hold on to any particular philosophy. The idea is to simply understand You cannot experience what you are not the vibration of. But whatever you are the vibration of, you can experience nothing else but that vibration. So if you want this to be like it was for you when you were a child who was far more grown up than you were allowed to be now who knew who she was and acted the part. If you want to be that child now, if you want to be the adult that is the natural result of being that child, you can do it. Just take all the things you've learned between 12 and your present age that don't work for you and drop them into a trash bucket. And you could even do this literally if you want. You could write down all the ideas that are not you, that don't work for you, that you know have nothing to do with you, that you don't prefer, that are not about your life. Write them down on pieces of paper. Look at them. Remember, having bought into them, recognize that you don't prefer the feeling that those ideas give you, that those beliefs engender within you. Take them and say, "All right, it's your turn to burn." And burn them up in the trash can. Watch them go up in smoke. And remember that smoke is all they've ever been. They only become solid when you put your power into believing them. But smoke is all they've ever been. And when you are doing that, in that ceremony of watching the smoke, which is symbolic of spirit, you will begin to allow yourself to open up more. And you will be sending literally a smoke signal, an invitation that spirits can now begin to interact more with you and that in so doing you will be better than just fine. You understand? Yeah. You will be that happy child once again. Are you willing to be this person? Yes. Does this help? Yeah, this helps me. All right. do the exercise that will make a difference. Can I ask one more thing? That's a good question. So, I guess you can um the the what you know what everything is explaining I understand but um sometimes I feel that well I've always felt that I've been watched and studied. Is that from spirits or is it aliens?

**Bashar:** I always recently both there are spirits watching all of you. There are ultradimensional beings watching you. There are some extraterrestrials watching you. Wink wink. You have a strong serious connection. You understand Sirius? The star system. Sirius. Hello. No. The star you call Sirius. Yeah. No, I don't know that star. Find it. Okay. You have a strong connection to it. It is the brightest star in your sky. Understand? Okay. It can be pointed out to you very easily by your friends with whom you also share a serious connection. Three from serious sitting together. Three sisters from serious. You are surrounded by your family from distant places even unto incarnation with you. Fear not. You have friends and you are. Okay. Thank you. Good day.

### Question 11: Recognition and Future Self Connection

**Participant:** How are you? Perfect. You great. Oh. Oh, great. Um our last um session. One moment. Yeah. All of you, please remember that all the things that are discussed, even though to varying degrees, have to do with you as well because there are no accidents. So, pay attention to everything. It's all a part of your own co-creative orchestration. And you never know when you're going to hear just the right thing, even though I'm not necessarily talking just to you. Okay. Okay. Um, I was at the the very last person um that uh you was number two last time and then um I thought it was very interesting because I've never seen you do this before, but you signed off without uh calling on me. And since I knew that there was a purpose for that, when I was looking at it the next day, it was about recognition. All right. Is what came up for me. Well, you didn't conclude that I simply had a hot face. No, I did last time, but uh yeah, this time I I knew uh there was definite purpose for that. Oh, all right. And not that you were getting faulty in your memory or anything like that. And so it came up as recognition and um then uh the recognition tied in with uh our recogni the recognition between uh our association and then you had suggested to me that I transcribe the December 10th tape and my memory is still not faulty. you're not gonna have to recap all of this if you simply have a question. Okay. Well, anyway, I I did that at the very end uh was the happy birthday. Yes. Um of that of the self. Yes. And so you had said that your fee self birth date would be 1210 as it corresponds to your time track. Yes. As it corresponds. Okay. And we simply also allowed you to understand that you could utilize that date to tap into the energy of your own future self. Since it had been given to you from our future self to assist you to make that connection to your own by the utilization of the date that represents connecting to the future self in your time frame. Okay. So it would send your future self to help you get into your my future self. That's of old. That's okay. Oh, and they both Yeah. Okay. From the serious connection. So that was there's that serious connection. Furious connection. Okay. So that was the recognition of that. Um I have always felt that always. Well, no, not always. Just um I have thought that um a connection between us uh Esasoni um connection. Is that a question? In the past? No. No. I I go back to the time I have a birth mark, right, on the my back. Um that is is sort of an escape. It is in the shape of your uh spacecraft and it was not a birthmark um that I was born with. It's one that has been uh around maybe in the last 20 years or so. Okay. And uh that's what I tapped into.

**Bashar:** It is not our spacecraft specifically. No. No. It is connected however to the concept of a hybrid race but not necessarily directly our own my connections to a hybrid race. Never thought about that before myself. Okay. All right. Then the other uh thing I was looking on the internet for some information. Internet. Yes. Internet. Uhhuh. Searching the net. Surfing. Yeah. Were you bored? No. Uhuh. I was uh looking for information on uh breath bretharian. And uh I haven't uh uncovered too much and I was talking I haven't airwaves instead. Hey, I was talking to Daryl and he felt Did you think that was a joke? No, there has to be airwaves. Um, radio. Radio. Yes. Check radio for it. Oh, so there are people like art bill and people talking about I know there do you check but that's the direction in which you will find some information on the concept of riparianism. Okay. Um I was interested in knowing about No, I guess I'll check. Thank you. Yeah. About what happens with the physical body? How that changes when um thumb is demonstrated to you every time we interact through the channel's body in that it becomes the resonating cavity in which you hear the expansion and increase in the idea of the intake of oxygenation and how it is allowing the body to sustain higher frequencies of energy. So you are given a clue every time we interact. Okay. All right. I'll do my homework on that. Thank you. That was it. Thank you. Thank you.

### Question 12: Dolphin Swim and Co-creation

**Participant:** And Quattro. Hi, Var. And are you good there? Um, just got back from Hawaii. All right. And um was ecstatic. All right. So, all right. Um and one of the events that happened there was that I went uh I put my name in a lottery on Christmas day to swim with the dolphins. Okay. And um I was sure that I was going to do it. Um but I think I may have had some doubt. I'm not sure except for what unfolded, which was that when I called to see if there was like 200 people in this lottery, right? And when I called to see if my name was on uh the people chosen, they gave they said yes. And then they said as an alternate um that I was the second alternate. All right. So the next day when I was driving there, which was like an hour away, I was um trying to deal with this idea of what was this all about? I was sort of amused. Um I was playing out in my imagination how I would feel if I didn't actually get to swim with them or how I would feel if I did. Yes. Um your processes are interesting to me. Well, so when I got there, um, I waited and the guy came out and he there was like 10 people waiting and he said, um, only one person didn't show up. And so then he called out the name of the first alternate, right? And no one answered, right? And then he called my name, and obviously I was really excited and um so I swam with them, right? And um it was really incredible for me um in terms of holding them in my well one of them in my arms. Um I found when my hands touched her body that the first thing I did was started uh doing Cington cuts on him. Finally. Um it's a method of massage that activates all four brain waves at once.

**Bashar:** What makes you think you have only four?

**Participant:** I never counted.

**Bashar:** Well, anyway, that's the theory. But I but I did. There are seven. There are seven. There's a We'll go into that at another time. All right. So, um anyway, it was really incredible. And one question that came up was that I I have to admit I felt sort of dog energy.

**Bashar:** Yes. The dog star, right? And I saw that connection, but since I don't know I I still can't make complete sense out of it. So that's all right. Sometimes it is best that you don't not for a little while so that you do not necessarily analyze yourself to death. No. No. Um okay. But one question I was really curious about that process. Oh, you are really curious. If I had Why did I create that that way?

**Bashar:** because you love process. I mean, you're talking about having to wait to see if I was because you love process and you are testing yourself to see just exactly how far to the edge of the envelope you can push it and still create the manifestation. You are stretching your envelope in that sense and finding out how to use process in a variety of different ways. You understand? Yeah. What? You are enjoying the manifestation of the creation as well as the creation itself. Yeah. I had a lot of fun with it and I really was in a place where it didn't matter whether it went through or not. Yeah. But also about cocreation. I mean well this I mean it's an orchestration. There are no accidents. Yeah. You know I don't totally get that yet. Oh. All right. What is there about it that you don't totally get? Well, it's I'm creating everything and I created that whole experience for myself. So who had any other say about whether or not I was chosen?

**Bashar:** Everyone there. Yeah, I don't get it. Oh, all right. I will put it to you this way. Let us say that it is your great desire to manifest the experience of the color green. You follow? This is a simple example, but as an analogy, maybe it will do. Why then would you wind up with any other two colors than blue and yellow? You understand? Blue and yellow make green. Yeah. So if you are desiring the experience of the color green, why would any other color then show up but blue and yellow? Well, I wouldn't get stressed that they would. Now they may have their own agenda but the point is is that you will only attract yourself to where blue and yellow will show up for you to experience green while not in any way shape or form diminishing one iota the agenda of blue or the agenda of yellow which may even be very different than yours. Nevertheless, they will all attract themselves to exactly the right spot at the right time with all their agendas intact. And all those agendas will mesh to form the experience out of that mesh that everyone needs. That's clearer. Does that help? That's clearer. Yeah. Are you familiar on your planet with the story that exists called Stone Soup? Yeah, that is also a similar idea. An individual is very hungry and has no food and no way to access any that they can immediately see. They fill a pot with water, being clever, and begin to put it over a fire and stir vigorously, acting as if there is the most delicious of soups in the pot, when in fact they know there's only water. Along comes an individual and says, "Oh, what are you doing?" I am making the most delicious of soups. I have put a stone in there and it is called stone soup. It is the most delicious of soup. Oh, really? Says the individual. I've never had stone soup. Stone and water. You say, "This is delicious." "Oh, yes, beyond belief. May I have some?" Well, yes, you may. But there is one thing you need to do if you wish to participate and that is bring something to share to put into the stone too. You get the point. After about 10 individuals come by wanting a taste of this amazing soup and that the entry fee is that they bring one item of food to throw in the pot. By the time they're all done, there is a beautiful soup in the pot and everyone shares it. It fits everyone's agenda. Everyone brought something to it and co-created and manifested the idea of the soup out of nothing. You understand? I'm getting there. This is a big one for me. Oh, all right. I'll ponder it. Um, in fact, one of the things that you mention, you asked me about I think like six months ago about my locus of consciousness being everywhere. Yes, I finally got it. Yeah, that that helps me a lot.

### Question 13: Conversations with God and Contradictions

**Participant:** Um the other question I have or two other questions. One is regarding um the book conversations with God. Yes. Um there's a statement in there where they say um the soul is very clear about its purpose of evaluate of evolution. Yes. It is not concerned with the achievements of the body or the development of the mind. Right? These are all meaningless to the soul. Right? distress.

**Bashar:** I see that's because of your interpretation of the phrase. I that's what I assume because it's meaningless. Yes. Well, I have not already told you many many times that nothing has built-in meaning. You supply the meaning and that is the effect you get out of it. Nothing has built-in meaning. Therefore, meaningless doesn't mean it in a negative way. There's no meaning at all. Neutral, empty, devoid of meaning. You understand? That's cool. Does that help illuminate the idea? Yeah, because I get so much pleasure out of those kinds of things and they're part of what I This is the lesson in reading the book that you understand how to understand it because in knowing what we had talked about many times and I'm not saying that this is a should in the sense of judgment but you should have understood what that meant. H yeah, I guess I was um I will give you this key. I will give you this key. No matter how contradictory anything in the book may seem to anything else you have heard that you know is true in your heart of heart or no matter how contradictory anything in the book may seem even to another statement in the same book, none of it is. Therefore, if you go in knowing that, you will then if you experience a contradiction, look again until you don't and then you will know you have understood. Yeah. Because I think there was so far there's only been two things that came up that there will be many for there are more books to come. But the point simply is this. Any contradiction you experience in that book is a contradiction in yourself, not in the book. Yeah. Well, it's brought up. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, but that's the point that because of that whole idea of being in conflict with the soul in general. Yeah. Because that's an idea. It doesn't really exist. You can't be in conflict with your soul. No. Oh. Because you're always playing by it agenda anyway. And it is playing by yours, but not in the way that you play by it.

**Participant:** Well, and then he says that the soul is really running the show and that you figure that out when you die in a sense.

**Bashar:** Yes. It takes away nothing from your own autonomy or free will and self-empowered choice. Again, remember what seems to be a paradox, what seems to be a conflict is not. And you need to understand how to read it until it isn't. It is not remember this or that. It's this and that. Don't forget these things when you're reading the book.

**Participant:** Well, one of the things that came up was that fear that I have that my soul doesn't value my physical body as much as I do and that and that it would allow something to happen that um would be physically painful or damaging to me.

**Bashar:** Of course it will. But listen to the way that you say that. It will allow as if it's controlling you. No, it will allow you to do those things to yourself. All right. So, it wouldn't cuz remember when I was really nervous about that? Yes. Well, I got the feeling that it will utilize that as a me a method of waking you up. It will, but that doesn't mean that it is controlling you. Well, I have an issue with that. I think you're not getting it. It will use whatever you decide to do to allow itself to grow. Whatever it takes. Whatever it takes. Whatever you decide to do, it will still be able to use. It will let you choose to bash yourself in the head and it will find a way to use that in a positive way. Then if you listen to the soul in how it is used that experience in a positive way, you can too. Not meaning that you had to bash yourself in the head and not meaning that it made you bash yourself in the head, but it's going to allow you to bash yourself in the head because it's not going to take away your free will as a personality.

**Participant:** Well, maybe the most extreme example of this I can think of is Christopher Reeve.

**Bashar:** Yes. What about it? Ah. Have you gone and talked to the individual? Well, I Yes, I know he's using it in a very positive way. Is he not then truly the symbol of what you in your reality call Superman? Yes. Well, then he has simply taken it in an unexpected direction. Right. Well, but did was that planned from the first? All right. See, I'm just having an argument with myself about this because it bothers me. Listen again. Not this or that. This and that. Yes. It was planned from the first and it was planned only in the moment. Why are both true? Because there is only one moment. So this moment is from the first because this moment is the first moment and it was planned only in this moment spontaneously. Both are true because there is only one moment. And what you experience as a succession of moments is the same one moment from different points of view because there's only one moment in which existence exists. Only once now. That's it. It's always now. That's it. That is a literalism. There is only one moment now. Therefore, it was planned from the first and not planned at all and chosen in the moment as well. And he chose that when he became aligned with his overall soul. You could say it that way, but that's simply a linear interpretation. And it's also a co-created orchestration of all of you. If you use it in a positive way as he is choosing to, then you can perhaps see it from his point of view or at least closer to it.

**Participant:** I have haunted it and I will continue to.

**Bashar:** That's up to you. Nevertheless, there are no accidents. Right. And for me, it's just about feeling safe. Yes, I know. You can't really feel safe until you stop worrying about being safe. So, let go and then you will be safe. Because you will be in the here and the now. The only place you can create the idea that it is not safe is somewhere other than being here and now. Because here and now is inviolent, immutable, eternal, infinite, indestructible. You understand? If you become now, you also become all those things. So if had he been in the now, you're assuming he was not in the now in his choice. What I am saying is that whatever it is you choose, if you choose it in the now, then you will extract from it what serves you in a positive way. No matter what it is, do not make the mistake of judging of putting value judgment on what kind of now someone may choose. They may have deemed that that's the kind of now that served them best. Just because it's that kind of manifestation doesn't mean it wasn't chosen from the now. Doesn't mean the person was not being in the present. Yeah. I I respect him greatly for doing that. Then respect yourself to the same degree and you will understand.

**Participant:** One last one last thing. I really want to know this. What my frequency while I was in Hawaii?

**Bashar:** No. you. How are you? How are you? Good day. How are you? Perfect. I'm good. I wanted to talk to you about some things. But um a lot of times, you know, many of us want are creating something and we say, well, I can't talk about it. I don't want to share it now, you know, because of the energy. And what I realized was that when you talk about something, you put a thought form out there and then the thought form takes on energy and goes on and creates more and more. And if you're not equal to it or can't keep up to it, it kind of goes out on its own. And that's maybe why you slip away.

**Bashar:** What an absolutely fascinating creation you have made for Thank you. Well, I'm a creative being. That's what you're putting your charge into right now is this idea. Okay. you know the difference between simply talking about something and actually really putting a charge into it in terms of manifestation. But if you have the belief that talking about something is enough of a charge to put into it that just talking about it might make it come to pass whether you want it to or not then that's the charge you're putting into it and that's what makes it manifest. Well, I'm feeling that it won't come to pass if you talk about things because everyone else that's another belief system. It depends on how you do it. Remember, not this or that, this and that, which is another way of understanding that there is two sides to everything. There are ways to talk about something that has nothing at all to do with its ability to manifest. There are ways of talking about something that has everything to do with stopping it from manifesting. It depends on what you're doing. Uhhuh. It depends on your intention. It depends on your center. Depends on your clarity. It depends on knowing who you are. It depends on behaving in alignment with yourself. Depends on the one thing and that is simply being who you are. It's the same thing as the cat. Yeah. That you're talking to her about the cat. It is analogous on many levels. Yes. Okay. Well, I'll share this with you then. Um I've been having a great time. I' I'm like cleaning my house up and throwing things out and like for the first time being able to get organized and I feel like a big year is coming for me. I'm going to make I very excited about a big year coming because I'm I'm going to I'm creating a job on a on a sitcom a recurring role situation comedy like and like a recurring role and so um I feel very excited about it and I'm working on the movie uh for two to three weeks starting on Tuesday and I'm going to use being there uh whatever I can being there to create the energy or to build up the energy. And the reason I brought it up to you is because I wanted to you at least give me good information or good ideas or something. Um, and that's why I just wanted to share that with you and see if there's anything you can say that will

**Bashar:** There are many powerful things that I could say to you that I recognize you are creating these things for. However, I'm not allowed to.

**Participant:** Can you say more than that or that's it?

**Bashar:** I can say this. I recognize exactly what you're using the sitcom for. I cannot tell you what I know. It would impede the energy of how it is you need to use the sitcom for me to give you any clue as to exactly what you're using it for. Okay. So, go on, girl. Right. Yes. All right. That's about it.

### Question 14: Vision of Hybrid Children

**Participant:** Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. I was with talking to Jill tonight and I saw her and I wanted to just check something out with you. I saw her like teaching like um hybrid children sort of like being a teacher. I saw them like sitting in front of her. Yes. Is that a correct vision or I'll give you the simple answer? Yes. Okay. Thank you.

**Bashar:** You and then you number two. Do you know who you are? All right. Number one. Oh. All right. Time's up. Four. Three. Two. one. All right. Good day. Good day.

### Question 15: Relationship Realization

**Participant:** Um, I've had some very interesting developments in um, making history. I have I've actually taken a lot of breaks with many cameras. All right. This is in a in a different game. Um, in the relationship that I've talked to you a lot about with Daniel, right? And, um, having not seen him for four months, I did see him over the Christmas holiday. All right. And And who were you? I was me. All me. All right. And it was it felt great. Thank you. Because you do feel great when you are yourself. That's for all of you. And I had a realization about, you know, this whole attraction to him. And And what would that be then? Well, I realized that it wasn't about whether or not I got him. It was about what he brought up in me that I could look at from my past. And it's been an incredible time for that. You mean you've just got that? Well, no. It's I've been getting it on and off, but it really hit me hard. Oh, all right. It really hit me after I'd seen him. Smacked yourself in the face. I did. I smacked myself in the face with it. Oh, all right. And it was interesting because after I saw him, he then called and invited um us to a New Year's Eve party. Yes. And it was really great to see him and feel love from him. And uh I realized how important he is to me still and how I'm still very attracted to him. Yes. But again for the same reason that any relationship exists for what you just said because that's what relationships are for to allow each of you in the relationship to understand more of who you are yourself. Exactly. And I've done that so much over this time. And if I had been with him all this time, I wouldn't have done it. I also know that my cat Violet reflects back to me very directly these issues. Yes. And she stayed out all night that night on me. Well, it's not just New Year and fulfillment.

**Bashar:** Any other comments about that? No. No. No. No. Um because you know the whole connection with this um sort of becoming more of myself, having a better relationship with myself. Right. I realized that this ties a lot into the whole license plate thing. Right. Right. But I definitely feel like Damian is directly related to that and it just hit me that he was. Right. And so, and so, well, it just it feels really good because I had felt like all this time I wanted to unplug from these feelings because I thought, why am I feeling so strongly about somebody who doesn't want to be with me? And I thought, what the big deal with that? But it is not that you need to necessarily unplug from the general feeling, but only from your specific spin of that particular emotional capacity. When you give it the new spin, the new definition, you may still experience some of the similar emotional components, but they will be being generated from a completely different belief system matrix at that point. And of course, we'll have a completely different quality of view and will give you a different quality of information because you're on a different level with it. You can see different, right? So, congratulations. Happy new year. Yeah, very much so. But, you know, I was interested just in the whole I mean, as you know, I've always been very interested in that reflection that animals give us, right? And I definitely felt like this action on Violet's part, even though she does even though she is this individual cat and has her own agenda, right? But this staying out all night thing was definitely she was giving me a gift, but I feel like I haven't been totally clear as to what the gift was. And I was

**Bashar:** You will not right now though. I guess unless I decide to. Your guest is amazingly active and insightful. Unless of course you would like to provide more information at this time. Yeah, I would like to provide more information at this time. Oh, all right. Go right ahead. Okay. So the idea of her being out all night, which is the darkness, the night, the unknown, the unknown, being very comfortable in the unknown, living in existing in the unknown, because that is where you do live, you know. Yeah, that's where you all really live is in the unknown. So afraid of going into the unknown that you never find yourself, but that's where you live. Right. So, does this encourage you to go deeper into your own unknown? Definitely. I mean, I know that um do you believe that your violet can see better than you can in the unknown? can navigate a little bit more clearly in the unknown than you have had the capability of doing. Do you believe that? Yeah, she's a cat naturally for her. It's natural for her, but not for me. It's natural for me, but I've just forgotten. But she's helping me remember. Yes, he is. So, see into the unknown with the eyes of the cat and things will become more familiar. Familiar familiar. And why were cats called familiars? I wonder in your ancient times. Because they were recognized as in many ways mirrors of the self and it is a very strong relationship that you are in with a viol. Does that help? It does help me.

### Question 16: Developing Psychic Gifts

**Participant:** And there's one other thing I I would like to ask. And what is the one other thing? In speaking to Joe about her ability to see into other dimensions and see all these spirits and entities. Yes. Are there ways that people who don't have these gifts can develop that?

**Bashar:** You all have the gifts. Do you remember our opening conversation? There are no secrets, right? Each of you at any given moment may choose to exhibit more or less propensity in any particular area that you all have access to. And that will be for your own reasons. So it isn't that you do or don't have more ability. You may at any given moment have a reason to or not to to any particular degree, but that's because you are creating that reason for yourself. So it's up to your decision. Yes. Does that help? Yes. Thank you.

### Question 17: Sirius and Dog Connection

**Participant:** Number two. Hello. And you good day today. Tonight was the first time I heard about the is it the star Sirius? Sirius. Okay. And then you mentioned that it was a dog star. It is in your language referred to as the dog star because it is in your terms a part of a constellation that in ancient times was named the dog. Thus, it is simply referred to as the dog star because it is the brightest star in that constellation. At the same time, however, the naming of it as a dog star is intuitive in one way in that the dog on your planet as an animal symbolizes the idea of unconditional service and love. And the idea of the serious energy, the consciousness, the other dimensional consciousnesses and entities that are actually connected to the star system that you call serious are very unconditionally loving and are willing to be of service to all of you to help you find yourself. Okay. About 6 months ago, I was in meditation and told me to get a dog. All right. So then somehow I got this puppy that some a friend of mine had and just more recently I've just been feeling like and this is connecting um that it's like more than a dog. I mean it is a reflection of certain aspects of you that you now find it is the correct timing to start facing okay and dealing with. Oh, okay. Did I sense exasperation in that? No. Your life is going to the doctor. No, it's just sometimes she looks at me. It's like she's studying me to me. But she is also reflecting to you. Yes. Yes. Animals have consciousness. Okay. Yes. I know. That's what I'm I mean that's part of what I am really uh absorbing in my body. It's like a knowingness of just a feeling and my connection with her is more appealing and I just feel her spirit and her being and that helps you get more in touch with that aspect of your own spirit and your own being because the only way you can feel the sensation of what you are calling her spirit and her being is to create the same vibration she's giving off to you out of your own energy because That's the only way you can sense it is if you make it your own. So what you're actually feeling is your capacity to be on the same level of unconditional love toward yourself and all things. You understand? Yes. Anything any of you experience, remember, it's made out of your energy, your consciousness. Even if it appears to come from someone else, it still cannot be experienced by you unless you agree to make a model and match the frequency in your own energy. Only then you experience it. Otherwise, you would never even perceive that thing. They would be invisible. They wouldn't exist in your reality. Okay, you follow. Got it. Does that help you? Yes, it does. Is that sufficient? Or was there something else? There's something else. What else is hounding you? lot. But what I want to say now is I've been on the move for this past year, but more recently, in the last couple months, on the move, living in different cities, I see. All right. And more recently, I went to Florida, which is where I was born. Florida. All right. Thinking that maybe I'd be there for a while, but then you do that with Well, actually experience it cuz I actually took action and went there. And then within a few days, I got no, I'm not supposed to be there. And then I had this. Sometimes you have to take that step to know for certain that you don't necessarily that was my experience. Yes. And and I had a dream and I was think I knew in my mind I needed to be back here. Oh, what? And I had a dream and my mother who passed away two years ago came in a dream and I and I was talking to my one of my sisters in a dream saying I see that's why I need to go back and and she just appeared to my side and said yes you do. You need to be back there. You should be back there right or you're supposed to be there right now. And it was like not a dream. I woke up after that. It was like she was actually talking to me. It was Yeah. Okay. Well, you knew that. I didn't ask. I knew it. I mean, it was But it was just so different. It had the quality about it that lets you know it was a real communication. Yeah, it was a real communication. So, that's basically what I wanted validation of that. Well, you already had it. I didn't give it to you. The reason I can is that you already knew it was real. Okay, this is my real question. The real one. And we thought there was no such thing as secrets. All right. Why am I here? I mean, why am I back here? I mean, why was I supposed to come back here? I knew it, but I'm So, I'm still just like I would like some guidance. Is there some particular thing that you've been itching to do that you haven't yet allowed yourself to think will support you in life but is in fact more representative of a dream of a vision of something that would be more exciting in what you're doing? Yes. And that would be working with people on moving through emotional blocks. And have you begun to do that work? Yeah. talking with my friends and people that I meet who's in the conversation. But obviously you are suggesting or implying or perhaps I will give you the benefit of the doubt. I am inferring that you would like to do it on a grander scale that you believe is more representative of the actual energy you feel when you think about doing this. Yes. And it's connected to the dog because it's the service kind of unconditional love which is I feel is what I have one of my biggest. Then what can you do? What actions or opportunities can you take that would be more representative of you doing more of what you say is representative of being yourself that you're not yet taking action on. What can you do? What is available to you? Anything at all? What could you do? But one thing more is representative of behaving more like that person you say you want to become. What could you be doing differently that would be more representative of her, the her you say you want to be? I could um change my work situation. Which means specifically what? See, I'm stuck here. Uhuh. Which means specifically what? You said it. I should change my work situation. What did you mean by that? You must have had some idea of what you meant when you said that. What did you mean? Well, what I mean is my present work situation is not um loving for to for myself. So, when you said I could change my work situation, what did you mean? Did you mean quit? Yes. Is that what you meant? No. Yes. No. Which is it? It means what did you mean when you said I could change my work situation? Find another job. Then that means quit this one. Yes. Yes. Well, but I'm afraid to quit it before I have another job because then don't find another job eventually. Okay, that's what I want to do. All right. However, right, trust your reality. Uhhuh. Because the longer you hold on to something that you know you don't want, you will find that you will orchestrate with everyone there who intimately deep down knows what you want. You will orchestrate a situation to force you to change if you don't do it yourself. You understand? So don't hesitate too long to be yourself or you will give yourself the booth through them because they are truly your friend. You understand? Yeah. you're in a relationship with them and deep down, no matter what their personalities may say, no matter how their personalities may act, they deeply down love you and thus they will actually do for you what you may not be willing to do for yourself that they know you actually really want to do. So I would suggest that you take your help in hand and you be bold enough to do it first. You will not fall. You will find foundation under your feet if you take the leap of faith. It's possible that you can just quit. You don't have to do it that way. But pay attention to why you are afraid to do it that way because therein lies the key that you really need to look at. Therein lies the issue that you really need to integrate because you know if you really were being your true self, that person you see in the vision of your ideal self, if you were really being her, she wouldn't hesitate for a second. Yeah. You understand? Yes. Yeah. You understand? Yes. The more you act like her, the more you behave like you know she would behave in this situation, the more you will be able to attract and create the reality that goes hand in hand with her. But the longer you wait to behave like her, the universe says that's fine. We support you in your desire to wait to be her. So we will only be able thus then however to give you reinforcement of situations that allow you to continue to wait. You understand? You are getting what you ask for. If you wait to be who you know you are, the universe will give you situations that will perpetuate your ability to wait. You understand? But you are still getting what you've asked for. So why not get what you want? Because the universe will not hold it from you. The universe has already given you exactly what you ask for. I want to wait to be myself. Okay. We will give you all the circumstances and all the situations that will allow you to wait to be yourself. Here you go. You got it. You asked for it. You got it instantly. Many of you interpret this as I'm not getting what I asked for. Oh, but yes, you are. You are getting exactly what you have made the statement of in terms of who you say you are. I am the one who wants to wait to be who she knows she is. Okay? Says the universe, you will now have only in your reality all the circumstances and all the situations that are reflective of someone who wants to wait to be who she knows she is. Bang. You get it instantly. Does that make sense to you? Yes, it does. You always get always always always always get what you really actually make the declaration that you are. As we have recently said and as the book we mentioned points out clearly once again we refresh your memory. The only declaration you need to make to activate the manifestation of a reality is the word I. You don't need to say I want. I is it. Anything that comes after the word I is the operative manifesting word. So when you say I want the universe gives you all the situations it can to allow you to continue to want and that's what you get more wanting. Yes. Because you have already made the declaration. I when you say I the universe is completely alert that you are about to make a declaration of manifestation ready and willing to give it to you absolutely. So when you say I want universe says all right here you go. want, want, want, want, and keep on wanting until you say I am. When you say I am this, I am that, that would be because you actually are that instead of being the idea of wanting that or needing that. Does this make sense to you in terms of physics? Yes, it does. Very much.

### Question 18: Vision and Curiosity

**Participant:** the the mayor. Good day. Good day to you. I'm happy to be here. Oh, all right. We are very very happy that you are there. Um, my question comes uh from stemming from curiosities of whether a particular happening to me which was about 6 months ago. I don't know how serious it is, but um it just happens to be something along the lines of before I went to sleep having some sort of u vision, if you will, of something kind of floating and making certain patterns and a lot of blue, right? And I don't remember a lot of it and at times I do. and I kind of mold it over and recently put it together with um a sudden uh surge of unquenchable thirst for kind of knowledge about anything to do with um extras activity and all that kind of stuff. All right. And so um but I have an some kind of uh need to interpret it in a deeper way and I'm having a hard time and I was hoping maybe I could have some insight or but I ask you a question to begin the process of insight.

**Bashar:** Can you be more specific about what you mean when you say you have a need to interpret it in a deeper way? What does that kind of a phrase mean to you in a sense?

**Participant:** um to interpret it the deeper way would be meaning uh maybe something beh the the source of it um and if it really is significant or if it actually I do feel it is significant thank you is significant as everything that happens in your life is significant or it wouldn't happen right I'm just um the question mark comes from what is the significance what is the significance all right I ask you You take the question mark that is bent over and stretch it out into an exclamation point. What would you like the significance to be? Wow. I would like the significance to uh open some kind of doors uh in my waking consciousness as to that would have what effect? Uh that would have that would happen. If that would happen, it would have the effect of letting me uh know a little more about um really what what it is that I'm uh on my way to be doing. On your way to doing or I am doing and the end results the end result you mean the end of your physical life. The end of my phys Well, before the end of this physical life. Well, how much before? I suppose I I feel like it's going to be a teacher and and uh it's just really kind of bugging me. Yeah. Kind of like annoying me and keep on it keeps on coming up to the point where it's that's what I'm thinking about.

**Bashar:** I pose this idea to you to ponder. What if the sensation of being bugged by this is the driving force that is necessary for you to evolve? I see it. It has it serves that purpose already. Well, and it can continue to do so. It could have something to do with the reason why I'm in this room right now. As a matter of fact, all right. I give you that part of the reason many of you have the concept of burning curiosity is that you are given the idea of a conundrum, a puzzle that you must solve but you feel you cannot solve but you must solve it but you cannot solve it but you must solve it but you cannot solve it but you must solve it. That creates the evolutionary dilemma that forces you into a direction you've never gone before and forces you to expand. So that energy in and of itself is many times utilized as a tool to get you to simply become more of who you are. So you may never lose that no matter how much insight and information you gain. Is that all right with you if that happens? I suppose so. All right. And um also is there any particular force behind that? I feel as if it was kind of a a signature thing. And I I'm not I don't know what it was.

**Bashar:** It is. There are communications and contacts going on between you and other dimensional beings to help spur you in the directions that you have chosen to expand into in this life to be of service in the entire transformation and transition that's going on. The only question really is what is it you want to do with this in terms of acting on your highest joy? Because that's the only thing you really need to do with any of this information or energy is constantly use it to act on your highest joy. And that will always bring you to the brink of having more information that will allow you to continue to act on your highest joy. Does that make sense? It's a self-perpetuating cycle. Yes. Anything you deem anything you deem at any given moment out of all the options available to you that represent to you at this moment the highest excitement you have the ability to take some action on. All you need to do is act on it to be as you say on track with yourself. That's all you have to do. And that's all you need to do to use the information you are gaining and the energy experiences you are gaining in these interactions which are for the purpose of spurring you on to be more of yourself. Okay. Does that make sense? It does.

### Question 19: Wolf Puppy and Friction

**Participant:** I can kind of relate the feelings uh that I had that night. Um to certain particular times when I've I play I play an instrument a few um and it occurred when I was playing bass, electric bass more than one time. Okay. And I've had a situation where I really I'm not controlling my hands and I'm thinking about something else.

I really uh made the parallel between feelings there. Yes. You are flowing. You are being in the moment. And as such, you can become more multi-dimensional and experience many different aspects of reality rather than having to focus on one thing. But you become attuned to the vibration. You become the vibration. You become harmonized and synchronized. and you resonate to that vibration of the moment. Your musical analogy is apt in this sense and can actually help you understand that what's going on now is you're learning to play yourself. You're learning your signature frequency. You are being shown by others your signature frequency. 

This is who you are. Feel it. Get used to it. That's who you are. Match it. Meet it. Rise to the occasion. Meet this vibration. Send your energy upward. match this frequency and you will be more of yourself. That's what you're being reflected by that blue, that energy. You understand? Yes, I do. So, who's helping? It sure does.

**Participant:** Um, well, a thought came to me that I I didn't put significance to, but uh I've always wanted a dog my my my entire life. It's not that long. I'm 19, but um I never got one. That's still your entire life so far. Yes. So, it has to be some sort of significance. But, um, I ended up two months ago getting, um, acquiring a a little wolf puppy. And it it has changed my life in some profound ways. Oh, yes. And, um, I'm keep on running into a whole bunch of friction on the fact friction from friction from other people's around. Not not that it's uh affected me. I mean, I still have it, but I it's just really strange uh the reaction I get out of a lot of people, including one some of my closest friends.

**Bashar:** Is it a fear reaction of the other from the other people? Yes. Um sometimes. And sometimes it's I kind of sense it's them projecting their own feelings on whether it's happy or whether it should be um domesticated. the fact that it's got most mostly wolf in it and for you it's appropriate. It isn't necessarily appropriate for everyone who might choose to do that. I will tell you rest assured for you at this time it is appropriate.


