---
heading: Part 1
title: "Animals and Extinction"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1997-03-16
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 135
tags: ['']
---



## The Nature of Animals and Consciousness

Animals represent a natural format a type of evolutionary spin-off, multiple path system of nature, of intelligence, of consciousness expressing itself leading down various avenues and so forth. 

They are more energetically speaking, more consciously speaking to come from the perspective of the idea that your whole world is really the product of one single level of consciousness. 

Diversifying itself into all the different aspects that it can in order to express itself as your world, your people, all the things in it.

Animal consciousness is really aside from yourself another facet or perspective of how consciousness expresses itself within your physical reality dimension.

When a consciousness decides that it will project itself into physical materiality, by the very definition of physical materiality, it will all of a sudden become fragmented.

It will become segregated into a collection of discrete parts and components. 

As it does so, each and every one of the components of the whole consciousness will take upon itself, will express itself in the attributes that represent a particular perspective of that whole consciousness as it can thus be expressed within the particular dimension of reality that the consciousness has projected itself into.

Thus, **all the different animals on your planet are different perspectives of the whole consciousness** as best as the consciousness can fragment itself and represent all the particular angles or points of view of itself that are possible within the physical dimension you have created yourselves to be.

your human life in some way represents an amalgamation of all the different perspectives. 

The animals represent specific and discrete unique aspects of that conscious perspective.

You contain all of those perspectives and that makes you human.

It does not mean that you are better than the animals. 

Not even necessarily more evolved except within a very limited linear framework of reference. But the idea is that as the human species on your planet, you represent the amalgamation of all the archetypal reflection that each and every animal and of course each and every plant and each and every rock and every other thing represents collectively together. 

You are like the matrix, the mirror that contains the ability to tap into all the different archetypal streams, each independent one. 

Blend them within yourself. So in that sense, you contain the animal kingdom, the plants, the rocks. They are all part and parcel of what make up your ability to express yourself as the component of the collective consciousness that represents itself as human.

There is a parallel going on in your oceans.

Dolphin and whale consciousness represents the same station that you do in their particular environment. 

Since you can consider the land reality and the water reality to be two simultaneously coexisting parallel alien worlds. Thus they have their own representation of reflection of all the different animal life in the sea just as you have your own compilation and reflection and representation of all the animal life on land.

Again if you understand that this is what just to be specific for now in this conversation animals generally represent which again does not mean they do not have their own consciousness, does not mean they do not have their own self-awareness, does not mean they do not operate holistically in their own right. But if you understand that they represent archetypally a different aspect, shall we say different eyes, a different way that the collective has of experiencing and seeing itself, then you can really understand the reason for why all the different animals, all the different plants, all the different kinds of minerals exist. For each and every one of them taken together make up physically a representation of the total entity that your entire world actually is energetically, consciously, spiritually and physically.

Therefore, without any particular component in place, you are in some senses not capable of understanding the whole point of view, the totality of the consciousness that is your dimension of experience.

Now yes of course in the course of things many times what you say animal species, plant species become extinct for one reason or another. This can be represented from time to time of the idea of transmutation, transformation and change as might be necessary within the understanding of the entire consciousness of itself as it changes itself to further better understanding and different reflections of the changes that is going through to be new species and eliminating what might be outmoded species for to understand at any given moment within itself. But nevertheless, there is still the idea of responsibility and balance within the concept of exactly at what pace that occurs, that process.

And I understand that if you create circumstances, environment which are detrimental to the murdering of the species that need to exist on your planet at present time, then it is like digging away little pieces of yourself, hiding them, burying them perhaps in a sense even forever as far as time and space go and not allowing yourself the opportunity to see in the reflections of the animals and the trees those aspects, those perspectives and those points of view which can aid and assist each and every one of you as human consciousnesses to understand what you are a representation of as a representation of the totality.

Therefore, in whatever time you can take, in whatever space you can make, allow yourselves to begin a different kind of interaction with all the animals and trees on your planet to see them as they are, representation of a different perspective, a different point of view, a different angle of the total consciousness that really is the single entity of your dimension of reality. And remember that each and every one of you are the total consciousness from a different point of view. You are all the parts, but you are also the whole expressing itself as a part. And there is a profound difference in looking at yourself in that way.

## Addendum on Matter and Energy

Add on a different note. We will to some degree go into this final notion in greater detail at another time. I would like to say and express it in what might be called a formulaic way. The idea that you have heard that your physicists are exploring the concepts that you call spacetime, time and space, space and time. I just give it to you this way. What is matter? What is energy? Matter is spacetime. Energy is timespace. Think about this and see where it leads you. For that's really what it is. It is those two polarized expression of your consciousness. Spacetime and timespace, matter and energy all one and the same.

In that sense, we thank each and every one of you at this time for allowing us to reflect these notions, these ideas to you, however cryptic some of them may be, for they all play a part and fall into the proper slots in the proper way at the proper time.



### Morning Glory Experience and Shifting Frequencies

**Questioner:** I had a really marvelous, beautiful experience today with the morning glory plant. And it seemed to teach me some really important lessons such as when I sat there contemplating this, it occurred to me I wanted to be there and I wanted to try to draw the plant or paint the plant.

I felt that I wasn't much of an artist, but I wanted to do what I could do to explore.

**Bashar:** Judgment. I did. All right. Thank you. How you prefer to be an artist? No, it is not. And I appreciate you pointing that out. That's all right. If you wish to perfect the art of judgment, that is not my choice. All right. My choice is to draw. Then draw. I began. Thank you. And in this process it was as though I was in love with this plant.

**Bashar:** It is not as though it was so. That is what the whole idea is about. Relationship. And the only way to understand truly and experience and extract from any experience the information you truly need is to create the relationship of being in love with that person, place or thing.

**Questioner:** Well, I feel very happy that this was my experience and the joy lingers.

**Bashar:** Being happy and so that was your experience. You understand the difference? You were giving yourself permission to simply be happy for no other reason than that's what you preferred to be and then could have the experience that reflected your happiness. It is not that you are happy so much literally because of the experience. Although after you create the experience with your happiness, then it might reinforce the idea of your happiness by having been manifested. But it is you choosing ultimately to be happy first that allows you to experience that idea. You understand?

**Questioner:** I'm learning to understand this and I choose to be happy more and more. It's a process that's a way down which I'm traveling very joyfully. I like it. What are your questions? Okay. Well, the one was about the morning glory plant. I think you've pretty much taken care of that. So, all right. Thank you. The next is a curious buzzing sensation that I experienced the other night. I awakened and I was aware that I was vibrating very very strongly and the sound was so strong it alarmed me. And I immediately started praying. I was taken by saying that you were in I was frightened. And then when I talked to myself and I said I want to know more about this, it didn't come back.

**Bashar:** You became equal to the frequency by allowing yourself to move into curiosity instead of fear. The idea however and we will just give you a general response to this for now without going into specific details as to what you might call causations at this particular moment. That particular sensation no matter what the cause quote unquote might be is the sensation of shifting dimensional frequencies. Do not extrapolate what we might mean by that. Do not just accept. Just allow yourself to understand we are giving you a simple answer for the effect but no information at all as regards the cause. So we are simply cautioning you not to extrapolate what you think we might mean by that. It is simply the experience of shifting dimensional frequencies. There are many reasons why that might occur.

**Questioner:** Well it's pretty neat to be able to do that. That's pretty exciting. I hope to have more experiences and I choose to be in curiosity and and have fun with it.

**Questioner:** And the third thing, yes, I found some contact lenses. Exactly. And the word I've been kind of playing with the word and I wonder if you can because I feel that this is a reflection of something. And can you tell me about this?

**Bashar:** Are you playing with the word lens or contact? Then are you simply allowing yourself to extrapolate symbolically, metaphorically the idea that by using the concept of a lens to bring certain things into focus, it will allow you to have better contact with what you need to have contact with. That's very fine. I like that. It's one perspective. Remember that your own imagination is very capable of providing you with equally valid perspectives and it is up to you to determine for yourself which one of them at any given moment might ring truest for you. You follow.

**Questioner:** I don't think it's necessarily a meaning. I think there can be many meanings. I just said that. Yes, that's my understanding.

**Bashar:** And it is up to the artist that you are to determine at any given moment which meaning is truest for you at that moment. Thus in that sentence as the implication, you could give it another meaning.



### Second Questioner: Grays, Healing, and Keys of Enoch

**Questioner:** A friend of mine said that he met a government official who was part of the inner circle that deals with the grays.

This individual told my friend that the grays that they were interacting with are actually eating humans, human parts, which is why they're fascinating.

I found it hard to believe, but at the same time, I have read reports of finding human parts and bottles on ships, and I was wondering if this is one type of gray.

**Bashar:** No and no. 

So that was all erroneous information then I will give it to you that way for now. 

There is more to it than that but for now let us say it is misleading and misunderstood.

**Questioner:** Okay. I've been asking for conscious contact every night and still awaiting my contact.

**Bashar:** Why are you awaiting? Get on with your life.

**Questioner:** Well, I'm getting on with my life. I'm starting to think about my next screenplay as we discussed last week. Yes. And assuming and choosing that that will facilitate the process.

**Bashar:** You don't have to think about it. It will just do. Yes. Okay.

**Questioner:** While I was in Budapest, I met a woman named Edie. Yes. Who we bonded and she connected me to the ideas of the keys of Enoch. Yes. And I was wondering if you can elaborate on that and what my connection is to the keys of Enoch.

**Bashar:** Some not all but some of the information in that particular work of literature has to do with some of the things we have discussed with many of you before that refers to the concept of the template, the underlying foundational structure and or template that is what physiological reality is based upon such as such concepts as the Merkaba and the Kabbalah and so forth but it is in another context in that particular work of literature not all the information has to do with but that is the underlying seed for the creation of that information and the seed from which much of the information in that work springs. Does that make sense to you in your language?

**Questioner:** Yes. It's not something I'm very attracted to, but it you don't have to be. You do have an ancient connection to it with regard to the idea of your life connections to the Hebraic peoples, but we don't necessarily have to go into great detail about that now as it is not absolutely pertinent except in the one area where the understanding the underlying understanding of the connection and interconnection of all things serves you to be who you deem you need to be in this life. In that you understand you are your own key to unlock your own locks. 

**Questioner:** And you told me quite some time ago that I was a healer and I told you that I wanted to heal through making movies, right? But I've subsequently discovered recently that I do have healing power.

**Bashar:** You are.

**Questioner:** Well, on two different occasions with two different people, these people had very intense back pain and so I used my hand on near their pain. Yes. And I envisioned a laser blue light going through my hand and I felt my hand getting very hot and the pain went away from them. Yes. And the pain disappeared for approximately half an hour. Yes. And then it came back. But I would like to develop this gift to the point where the pain goes away forever.

**Bashar:** That's not up to you. You develop the gift absolutely perfectly and as far as you can possibly take it. The fact that the pain went away shows that you have accomplished this. Their assumption that you're supposed to take it all away is erroneous. It is up to them to resolve whatever issues created the pain to begin with so that they will not recreate it again after you have helped them remove it. You understand? You together removed this completely. You allowed them by giving them a vibration of energy that they could then match with their own energy. You allowed them to transform and eradicate their pain. Job done. Zero perfectly. Do you understand? The only way that they are going to keep it away is then to understand that they can get in touch with the things that brought it about, the emotional imbalances that brought it about to begin with and deal with that more deeply. Now, if you wish to help someone with that as well, you certainly can, but you don't have to. But the idea is that in the act itself that you performed, you did it perfectly and it was in your terms successful as far as it possibly can go without them then taking more responsibility for what created it to begin with. You understand? That's all there is to it. It's not up to you to take it farther in that modality.

**Questioner:** Is there a technique that I could use to strengthen my gift?

**Bashar:** Did you not hear it?

**Questioner:** No, I did. I understood perfectly what strengthening because I understand that for instance through Reiki that you can send the gift of healing through thought patterns and not just be physically present. What do you think that you were doing?

**Questioner:** So that I could just do that by envisioning blue light and sending it.

**Bashar:** Are you going to make space an issue?

**Questioner:** No.

**Bashar:** Well then you did it with thought patterns anyway. You are now assuming that there is some difference in the thought patterns there as opposed to being anywhere else. You are making that assumption and that's the only thing that makes the difference is that you're making the assumption that distance is a factor. You're going to do it the same way. You have to get in touch with why you assume distance is a factor. And when you get in touch with why you assume that and stop assuming that distance won't be a factor. That's great. It doesn't require any strengthening of the talent itself. It simply requires clarity in why you would assume that there would be a difference with distance.

**Questioner:** It does. I'm just curious that there are some people who seem to be incredibly gifted healers in a different degree than other people.

**Bashar:** It's just like any gift. Yes. And the degree of passion. The degree of clarity, the degree of intent. That's all there is to it. That's great. Simple. Remember?

**Questioner:** I do. Good to have you. Thank you so much.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Number two.

### Third Questioner: Demonic Possession, Ed Bane's Prediction, and Clarity

**Questioner:** Hi, Bashar. And you good day. Couple of topics here I want you to just comment on if you would. Topics to bottom. Right. I heard a very interesting show on the radio and the guest was a Catholic priest who has been doing exorcism for many years and he spoke of demonic possession and basically just really honed in on the idea of its reality and that perhaps it is becoming more common now in our society and that there are fewer people able in some senses.

**Bashar:** The potential for such experience is becoming more common as more of you open up to the idea that you are capable of interacting with different dimensions of experience and different levels of consciousness. But again, it is the same mechanism as anything. It is resonance identification. Possession in that sense is not actually inhabitation. It is resonance identification. The belief systems of the individual allow the individual to vibrate on a particular frequency domain level or bandwidth if you wish. Since you are talking about radio, particular bandwidth that is the particular bandwidth of or upon which certain kinds of entities may exist and thus in that sense the individual seemingly experiencing the possession renders their own energy to be a mirror image of such an entity. Do you understand?

**Questioner:** I think so. Does the entity have his own part in creating that mirroring?

**Bashar:** An entity can feed off of and reinforce the vibration of such an individual. But that does not mean that they ultimately control such an individual. If such an individual will ultimately realize that they brought about the appropriate conditions to allow such a communication to take place, they can instantly stop and change those conditions as well, which will instantly cut off the communication line to any entities operating on the same wavelength. Does that make sense to you in terms of physics?

**Questioner:** Yeah. Oh, I think so.

**Bashar:** It is again just like tuning forks.

**Questioner:** Yeah, I think you hit one point there in the beginning where you said that this is now more likely because more people are opening up. And one of the things that this man brought forth was that oh my god don't do transcendental meditation, don't do channeling, don't do Ouija boards.

**Bashar:** It has nothing to do with the ideas themselves. It has to do with the amount of fear that is contained within those ideas which of course obviously that individual was promoting. Therefore that individual in and of himself ironically is promoting more incidence of such things by saying that that can be the only result of the exploration of those ideas.

**Questioner:** Okay. Thank you. That was my thought as well is that he was sort of okay. Well that's clear. Another thing I wanted to ask you to comment on is Ed Bane's prediction of something big happening within the next three and a half years for us.

**Bashar:** That seems like a safe bet, doesn't it?

**Questioner:** Seems like it. He just seems to think that no matter I even go so far as to say three big things will happen within the next three and a half of your years.

**Bashar:** That's also pretty safe. Okay. Any more you want to expand on that?

**Questioner:** In what direction need I expand? I have been appropriately reflectively as vague as you.

**Bashar:** The reason my vagueness comes across so concisely is because he was vague because when remote viewing this big thing, he couldn't pinpoint what it was.

**Questioner:** Then why concern yourself about it? Well, okay. I'll buy that. Does that make sense to you?

**Bashar:** You of course then have the option if you wish to get caught up in vagueness if that serves you.

**Questioner:** No. And it wasn't a matter of being fearful of what that thing was.

**Bashar:** I didn't say that. I just said you might enjoy the idea of being caught up in vagueness. But if you don't, then don't keep company with it.

**Questioner:** Well, I was hoping maybe you could take away some of the vagueness, but I guess not.

**Bashar:** My job. Okay. All right. The things that need to become clear will become appropriately clear right at the appropriate time. And that is based on choice. Your choices will determine what it is that becomes appropriately clear to you. At the same time, other individuals choices will determine what becomes appropriately clear to them. And their clarity and your clarity do not have to be the same clarity. So, you're saying make a lawful choice. Do not assume that by the word clarity I necessarily mean that it has to be in any way, shape or form positive. Clarity is clarity, right? Positive or negative. Yes. Your choices determine what kind of clarity you get. And of course, what brings into your own clarity. Then the appropriate timing that is representative of the choices that you have made consequentially. Does that make sense to you? That is how you render vagueness into clarity by determining what your relationship to vagueness is and what your relationship is to your life. Then as you make those choices in your relationship as you understand it you will find that anything that has been vague will become clear in the appropriate way that represents the choices you made about being clear about who you are. The only clarity that is required, in other words, to clear anything else up is to become clearer about who you are. That's it. It's the only clarity required. Does that make sense to you?

**Questioner:** Yeah, it's sort of a tough order, I guess, for a lot of us to be clear on who we are.

**Bashar:** Or it is. Is that something that you enjoy reinforcing?

**Questioner:** Yeah, I do. That is a tough order. Why do you get so much enjoyment out of that idea? I'm not saying that you have to give it up. I am just curious. What is it you enjoy so much about reinforcing the idea that to be clear about who you are is such a tough thing?

**Questioner:** I'm going to analyze that. I'm going to look at that.

**Bashar:** If that gives you joy. Okay. What do you get out of reinforcing that idea? How does it serve you?

**Questioner:** Mostly negatively. Seemingly obviously I must think so. I must enjoy the negativity.

**Bashar:** Not necessarily. In other words, you must have an idea as most of you would when you make a choice that is serving you positively. That's why you choose it. Remember the basic tenant of all choices. You move toward what you deem to be more pleasurable and away from what you deem to be more painful. So if you're making the choice to reinforce that concept, something within your definition of belief system must deem it to be more pleasurable than any other choice you could make. What kind of a definition would you have to have to make it seem so?

**Questioner:** Well, that's interesting. You could turn that around, I guess, and say that I must have a belief that finding out more of myself is going to be painful and I don't want I guess so.

**Bashar:** Yeah. Why would that be so? Why would you assume that to be the case? Who taught you that trick? Right. So get down to the underlying foundational and just make a determination as to what it is you prefer to believe because what it is you prefer to believe is what reality is because there is no reality aside from what you believe it to be. Okay? There is no reality aside from what you believe it to be. Here's an exercise for you. Are you ready? I am. Write down on a piece of paper. Okay. Got it. There is no reality. I'm writing this. There is no reality. Okay. There is no reality. I need a chalkboard. There is no reality. 500 times. Son of a trick. Right. So get down to the underlying foundational and just make a determination as to what it is you prefer to believe because what it is you prefer to believe is what reality is because there is no reality aside from what you believe it to be. Okay. There is no reality aside from what you believe it to be. Here's an exercise for you. Are you ready? I am. Write down on a piece of paper. Okay. Got it. There is no reality. I'm writing this. There is no reality. Okay. There is no reality. I need a chalkboard. There is no reality. 500 times front of the class. Exactly 500 times. You don't have to do it now. 500 times. There is no reality. Then after you are done writing that 500 times, take a break. Say anywhere from 15 of your minutes to an hour. And then write 500 times there is no reality but what I believe to be true. Write that 500 times. Then take a break anywhere from 15 minutes to one of your hours. And then without thinking about it, just write down whatever comes to mind. Just free flowing stream of consciousness as you say. Write down whatever it is your consciousness, your spirit wants to say after you do that exercise. All right. Great. Have fun.

### Fourth Questioner: Prayer, Sugar Intake, and Job Situation

**Bashar:** And you and you number one. Number two. Do you know who you are? Yes, I do. Thank you, Bashar. Number one. Good day. Good day. You are number three. Do you know who you are? Thank you. Do you have your electronic stick? Yes, I do. I want to ask a couple questions. The first one being about prayer. Prayer. Asking for help and intervention.

**Bashar:** Intervention will never come. Well, help. Yes. Intervention. No, intervention is not help. Do you understand the difference?

**Questioner:** No. I see it. I mean intervention as far as help from beyond oneself.

**Bashar:** That is still not intervention. Intervention is doing it for you. Help is helping you learn how to do it. And doing it with you. You understand the difference? Not doing it for you. That's not helping. But doing it with you, yes. Teaching you how to help yourself to do it. Yes. Prayer needs to be in the present. In other words, prayer is a communication that already takes for granted but with an energy of gratitude that a thing is already done. I see. Do you understand? I see now. Yes, I do understand. That's how it works. Otherwise, you're keeping it away from yourself by assuming that you don't have what you actually already been given because you have already been given everything. Prayer is that you are asking for the assistance not to get a thing but to understand you have already gotten a thing and in understanding that you've already gotten it then automatically being capable of seeing that thing in your reality that's what you call manifestation. All of you pay attention to that one more time very closely. Being that you are asking for assistance is not the asking for assistance to get a thing. You are asking for assistance to see that you've already gotten the thing. And once you see you already had it, you perceive it in your reality. And that is what manifestation actually is. Not that it actually comes from somewhere as if it was never here. Manifestation is the recognition that it always has been here with absolute clarity. Does that make sense to you? Yes, it does. That's prayer. And remember this also as many of you will find written in one of the books that we have recommended to you what you call the conversations with God. You will find very clearly the explanation therein that when you say I want you are automatically invoking the experience of wanting and that's what the universe reinforces that you will continue to be given opportunities to continue to want. All you need to do to activate the reflective quality of all the assistance of the universe is to say I. To make the declaration I. Whatever it is that comes after the word I is the operative activating word. So when you say I want the universe says all right you said I I recognize you you're now as you say in your language online. Now what's in a sense the command want. All right here it is reality that reinforces your ability to experience the concept of wanting. But that's what you get just wanting because that's what you asked for. I want but when you say I am by simply knowing that it's there I am this thing. I am this reality. This is me. It is who I am now. And I am so grateful for the fact that this is what is then you are online in alignment with the idea and the concept itself and thus can experience it more readily. Do you understand this? Yes, I do. Is it helping to clarify the idea of prayer? This helps very much. It's very exciting.

**Questioner:** And I'd like to ask the one other question if you could help me experience I want to lower my sugar intake and if there were some exciting ways that I could it seems like lack when I want to deny myself.

**Bashar:** You see it as a denial. I do. All right. Why? What is it about that substance that represents denial when you do not ingest it?

**Questioner:** It seems that substance gives me a feeling of energy and happiness and in society.

**Bashar:** Okay. Then what is it about yourself that you believe automatically lacks the idea of energy and happiness?

**Questioner:** I get tired after a while.

**Bashar:** No, no, no, no. That's not what I'm asking. I'm not asking you to describe an effect because the effect only comes from the circumstances you already believe in. What I'm asking you for is to get in touch with the belief, the original root belief that allows you to believe you automatically lack energy and happiness and so have to substitute it with something else. What do you believe or what have you believed for a long time to be true about yourself that would then result in the effect of experiencing lack of happiness and lack of energy?

**Questioner:** Well, I believe in this physical form that without rest eventually you the body runs down and you feel tired and a chemical change through sugar.

**Bashar:** Do not explain the process to us. That's not what we're asking for. But if you believe that you simply become unhappy and tired and non-energetic without rest, then the simple answer is to rest. Is it not? Are you implying something beyond that idea? No. Then why do you not rest?

**Questioner:** Maybe I put myself in circumstances where rest is not an option.

**Bashar:** I see. And why would you want to do that when you know that rest may be what you really really need.

**Questioner:** That's leading me back to my prayer to get out of the job I'm working in now.

**Bashar:** Oh, well your prayer is answered quickly. I think you're absolutely right. That opportunity has just arisen.

**Questioner:** They're laying me off temporarily and I don't want to go back there.

**Bashar:** Yes. It's not temporary and you know it. Yes. Because you don't want it to be temporary. No, I don't. Well, then why not pay more attention to yourself? Because you see, the only reason that you don't experience the energy you want to have is because you spend all your time fighting yourself with it, resisting your natural self, going against the grain of what you really prefer. Don't you think that would be tiring? Yes, it is. Don't you think that would be disheartening? It is. Well, then why are you doing it? I would suggest that you stop and start doing something that is more in keeping with the idea of happiness and energization and then you will be happy and energized. Because you will not be fighting yourself. You will be being yourself which is automatically all of you yourself is automatically happy and energized. That's who you are. Happy and energetic. That's who you are. The only reason you would not feel that is because you are not being who you are. You are resisting your natural self and that's tiring and energy sapping. Does that make sense?

**Questioner:** It does for sure.

**Bashar:** So have fun.

**Questioner:** I will. Thank you very much.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Number two.

### Fifth Questioner: Music, Beings, and Existence

**Questioner:** Hi. Hello. You may work it out among yourselves if you're ready. Okay. Good day. Hello. What you been doing?

**Bashar:** Many many many many things. Okay.

**Questioner:** I think you might be aware through the memory of the channel of some music I gave to the channel of mine. Okay. And it was enjoyed by the channel. Okay. I wonder if you could possibly make any comments on that.

**Bashar:** One moment. What kind of approach would you take creatively in your music if you focused on the word depth? That's where you need to go next. Right. Does that help you? Yep. Just consider and ponder creatively, artistically, energetically all the ideas, all the feelings, all the imaginations, all the insights, all the inspirations that your word depth imparts to you. Go on journeys, go on trips, go on adventures, all woven around the word depth and see what it evokes within you with regard to your music. All right. Okay. So, does that help you? Yeah.

**Questioner:** I have one more question. Yes. I kind of wanted to know. What you were talking earlier about when you say I that's I'd like to know what exactly is a being. I understand they're an energy and I don't understand how they're divided or how they can be on levels and layers. I don't understand exactly what a separate I don't understand how it can be separated and all the same at once.

**Bashar:** Oh, I see it. But yet I do. But are you familiar with the idea of what you call a mirror? Yes. And you have seen the reflection of your face in the mirror many times. Yes. Is that not you? Yeah. And yet at the same time, is it not apparently separate from you? Yeah. Well, in that sense, what it is is literally a reflection. Beings are reflection. They are points of view of one thing. If you were to hold up a mirror and to look into it, you would see also what you would call the room in the background around your head. Yes. In the reflection in the mirror. Yes. Would you not? Yes. All right. If you were then to change your angle, you may still see your face, but would not the room behind you in the mirror be different? A little bit. A little bit. Yes. Or a lot depending on how far you turned? Yeah. The idea really simply is that each and every person, each and every being is simply a different angle of one being. Does that make sense? Yes. It's like a multifaceted crystal. It's one crystal, but because it is faceted, it is capable of reflecting light from different angles and directions. You could say each facet, each angle is a different being because it is really representative of a whole different concept than any other facet that's at a different angle. And yet it's all one crystal, is it not? Yeah. Does it help illuminate the concept at all? I think so. Each and every one of you, each and every one of us, each and every individuated thing is simply the one infinite all that is but from a different angle. Okay? Since there is only now, since there is only here and now in which anything can exist, all that is in physical reality has to break itself up into what appears to be a number of different things coexisting simultaneously in order for you to experience all the different angles, all the different facets, all the different faces of the one that there can be within this particular noun. Does that make sense? Yes. So like a hall of mirrors that breaks up your image reflecting it thousands of times over and over from all sorts of different angles. You standing in the center of the hall of mirrors would be like the one looking at all its reflections and understanding itself from different perspectives and points of view to get a big picture of itself, a whole picture of itself. Yet because it is the creator, each of the reflections is also conscious and self-aware. Okay? Therefore, each of the reflections is what you call a being which is nothing but a reflection of the whole, the one and yet at the same time is also the whole one from a particular angle seeing itself experiencing itself from a particular point of view. Does that make sense?

**Questioner:** So why does the one exist?

**Bashar:** Because it always has. Remember the concept of time is subject to existence. Existence is not subject to the concept of time. Time is a concept created within that which exists. That which exists has no other quality. It never not existed. Existence only has one quality and that is to exist. It can't be anything but existence. That's the pure definition of existence is it can only do one thing exist. Therefore, the one that is all of existence doesn't need a reason or an excuse to exist. That's its nature. There is nothing else but existence for it. It can't be anything but existence because that's what it is. So, does that make sense? Does that translate into your language adequately? Yeah. So, there is non-existence. Non-existence is already full of all the things that will never exist. There is no room in non-existence for that which does exist. It's its own reality realm in a sense or non-reality realm if you wish to play with your language a bit. Okay. Does that make some sense to you? Yep. Thank you. Number three.

### Sixth Questioner: Pleiadian Nuclear Receptor, Healing, and Grays

**Questioner:** Do you have the electronic stick? Oh, I have. And do you Good Day. I have a piece of jewelry in my hand that's circulating in our reality known as a Pleiadian nuclear receptor. And I would like your hit on it. Can I put this in the channel's hands?

**Bashar:** You want me to hit it? I'd like your opinion or your. It does not have to be put into the channel's hands at this time. Okay. The idea is that it is to some degree representative of certain principles of what you might call higher vibrational physics, but the idea in its literal sense is not literal. Do you understand? No. In other words, it isn't literally representative of a piece of Pleiadian jewelry or a Pleiadian artifact. Okay? It is however the earthly interpretation of certain vibrational relationships with the concept of the consciousness in the Pleiades and thus it takes this form to represent that relationship and the relationship of certain vibrational energies as they can be expressed in your reality. Does that make sense? Yeah. So as a tool there are no physical aspects to it that create a higher vibration. It's the symbology that it carries that would in certain dimensions on a certain scale and out of certain materials. Such a device can to some degree focus and harness the idea of certain energetic vibrations in your physical reality just like many other devices can. Right? But of course ultimately that is all a reflection of consciousness as you know right? However, yes, it is capable to some degree of functioning as a focusing device for certain frequencies. However, many of the devices that you're actually referring to as literal physical objects are not always made with the degree of precision and clarity that would be required, nor are they made on the scale that might be required to actually really be capable of generating an effect that many of you might be able to perceive. Does that make sense to you? Yeah, it does. So you're saying this isn't the real thing. It's a close approximation.

**Bashar:** It is real unto itself. Okay, I got it. It's not necessarily always, as they are manufactured, accurately aligned to the principles of vibrational energy that it represents. Okay. Do you understand that? Yeah. Yeah, I do. I'm getting it.

**Questioner:** How about this one?

**Bashar:** Yeah. Again, the idea for now is generally symbolic. Okay. There are many ways to interpret this. However, understand this. If an individual finds that it allows them to key into a certain vibrational domain or realm, then their ability to key into that vibrational bandwidth can be very accurate whether the device itself is or not. Okay. Do you understand that? Does that help? Yes. Is that sufficient?

**Questioner:** Yeah, that's sufficient for that. But I have another question that was brought up by Jill when she was discussing healing. Yes. And you were saying something about the person needs to get in touch with the emotional trauma that created their physical ailment in order for the disease to go away forever. Does that mean that species without emotion have no physical ailments?

**Bashar:** They can have what you would call physical ailment and not have certain ways to access the ability to in your terms process it. It is possible because the idea in some cases, not all, in some cases, the idea of not having what you would call or recognize as emotional components may in and of itself be the result of other emotional components that created an apparent lack thereof of what you would consider to be visible ones. Does this make sense to you? Yeah, I got that. There are realities in which beings do not necessarily experience emotion as you do and yet at the same time in that sense have no disease. For they may exhibit the idea of an overall balanced compassion even though it may not be read by some individual in your species as emotion. It can still be representative of the idea of alignment with unconditional love. However, there are species whose apparent lack of emotionality may in fact have been brought about by negative emotionality. You understand? So, how does that affect their physicalness? So, it will generally cause a degeneration over time.

**Questioner:** Oh, that's interesting. So, they won't have colds or pneumonia or cancer, but they'll just wither away, die out. Oh, okay. Cease to function within any particular reality domain that they may have started in. So would this be I don't even know if I want to ask this but I will anyway. So is that what's happening with the grays?

**Bashar:** It is what is happening with certain factions of the grays? Yes. So it is your species free of illness? Yes. At this time, not in the beginning of our history, for there was also things that required in our reality the concept you call processing, so to speak. Until such time as we realized ourselves in alignment with the entire concept of our true self, our true nature. From that point forward in time and space, we had no disease. Yes.

**Questioner:** Wow, that's great. Can we do that? Yes. And you are doing that as a society at least in general by many of the things that you are exploring both externally in your understanding of universal energy and internally in your understanding of emotional components as well. Okay. Thank you. There will be a timing on your planet when there will be no disease as you understand it now at all. This is not what you would call an unachievable thing by any stretch of the imagination. It is your natural state. All you have to do is be your natural self and disease is not part of the equation. Unless someone may consciously choose it to have a particular experience, but then perhaps just as easily they can transmute it into something else once they are actually done consciously with the experience that they created the disease to have. Does that help you? Yeah, it does. Thanks.

### Seventh Questioner: Possum Experience, Christianity, and Sacred Objects

**Bashar:** One moment. Certain alignments are required one moment. Certain alignments are required. One moment certain alignments are required one moment. That which thinks itself to be aligned isn't necessarily a soul. One moment. One moment. Proceed you. Good day.

**Questioner:** When I was in Hawaii, I guess just before I left, we have like this storage room downstairs and I shut the door to it and went off on my trip.

**Bashar:** What have you been wondering?

**Questioner:** What it represented and what did you come up with? Well, it seemed like all the explanations that I saw didn't really satisfy me.

**Bashar:** All right. What explanation would satisfy?

**Questioner:** I don't know. I guess it was something about the death of appearances.

**Bashar:** The death of appearances. In what way did you place that kind of meaning?

**Questioner:** I don't know. It seemed like a good idea. I don't know. I just they kept talking about that possum has to do with appearances.

**Bashar:** Who kept talking?

**Questioner:** One of the books that I looked it up in. All right. You know, the idea of playing possum. Yeah. I just didn't have any creative inspiration on this. None whatsoever. No, except I felt really sorry.

**Bashar:** We will give some assistance in that the creature you call the possum on your planet does represent the idea of the apparency of death. Yes. As you say again playing possum you are close to the mark. But in that it actually died. You follow? Yes. Because why? If it isn't the symbol of pretending to die but actually died then pretending created the reality. Yes. The longer all of you remain asleep, the longer you wait to be yourselves, the longer you shut the door on your own freedom, the sooner you will create the reality of your greatest fear.

**Questioner:** Well, that seemed to happen simultaneously with me having the opposite experience. Yeah.

**Bashar:** The animal, as many animals do, will act as great teachers to take upon themselves the actual physiological reflection of the consequences to leave you free to experience the spiritual consequences of the knowledge so that you will not have to experience the physical consequences in the way that the animal brought it about for itself. You understand that?

**Questioner:** I don't understand why it's reflecting the opposite of what I was experiencing or I thought I.

**Bashar:** Explain what it is you were experiencing and it will become clear.

**Questioner:** I was experiencing what felt to me like a great deal of integration and also acceptance of what I feel.

**Bashar:** Yes. Thus that integration comes from what? Allowing it to be and a willingness to be your true self. Yeah. The idea however is that many times it takes it requires the darkness to push you into the light. So situations and events will be created co-created simultaneously that represent the polar opposites of a particular event so that as the energy moves in one direction it also moves in the other so that you have the balance that allows you to experience this side while this being chooses to experience this side so that you will not have to so that your experience of this side will be pure because it has been balanced by another co-created simultaneous act. Oh my. You understand? Yes. Wow. I'm really grateful for that thought. This is the idea behind the concept misunderstood in what you call your Christian religion about the idea of your Jesus on the cross dying for your sins. The idea is that that being took upon themselves that experience, that side of the experience so that you would not have to. Do you understand? Yeah. It was representative of the world spirit, the totality of all of your being on your planet in your dimension of reality expressing that side of your fear. So that you could if you would simply awaken to the fact that you could have the pure spiritual side of the light of that experience. Yeah. Do you understand what is meant by this? Yes. No, I do. Not literally dying for your sins in that sense. Not literally taking away your free will to be negative if you want, but giving you an opportunity to understand that by being willing to take that on and represent the idea of the world's spirit in that manifestation of death, then you were free to represent the world spirit within yourself and the manifestation of light. Does that make sense? Yeah. Yeah. That makes complete sense. And so in this way we would assume that if you look at this situation with the possum in that light then you will not necessarily be predicated to go out and start possumism in the same way that your people created Christianity around the apostles.

**Questioner:** Oh, thank you.

**Bashar:** If you understand the event for what it is, you will not have to ritualize it in a way that detaches you from the experience at its heart, at its core. Yeah. Now I feel like I can integrate that experience and Yes. And therein then is the rebound because then when you come back into the center you can reintegrate both the dark and the light both the negative and the positive and be balanced and at oneness with your true natural self with regard to that particular concept or reflection or aspect of your totality. I see. I see. So it's like the idea of elasticity. Here is the event. Did you notice something subtle but profound about that? What I felt? You want to see it again? What did you get out of that? Here it is again. Well, separation and reuniting. What else? And moving to a higher level. Thank you. So when you create that event and balance it positive and negative and bring it back into the center, you wind up on a higher level with it. This is the lesson in this case of the possum and you. So no more playing possum with yourself. Be alive. Be alert. Be clear. Be here. That's all. Yes. Does that help? Yeah, that helps me a lot. Thank you.

**Questioner:** I wanted to ask you one other thing. A question I have about an experience I had where I interacted with an individual that had what he considered to be a sacred object from Syria.

**Bashar:** A sacred object from Syria and that we have discussed it. Yes. Yes. It is not from Syria in the literal sense. You understand? I understand. Yes.

**Questioner:** And he wanted a great deal of money for it. And I just wondered about that idea about sacred objects and the idea everything is sacred, right? Yeah.

**Bashar:** And something can in some way by their arrangements, by their presentation be representative in a more concentrated way of the concept of sacredness. But everything is sacred.

**Questioner:** I believe that this particular object does seem to have some unique qualities that really seem to help people and accelerate and create process.

**Bashar:** That is because it has been infused with that kind of energy. However, at the same time, anyone with that kind of predilection and connection can do the same with any object. In fact, if you will simply take another object and touch it to that object, it will have the same frequency. That is how you can in a sense clone it. Okay.

**Questioner:** Well, more than that, I was curious about the idea of integrity and asking for large sums of money for something like that. That's so beneficial.

**Bashar:** The act in and of itself is not necessarily representative in a general sense of lack of integrity. But of course, you have to take into account all of the factors that may be present in this particular circumstance to determine whether it is in fact out of or within integrity. Do you understand? That's the idea of wanting to create an exchange is not in of itself out of integrity, but what goes behind it, what goes into it. If it is based on the idea of fear and lack, then it may be representative of the idea of being out of balance with one's integrity. Yes. And so how does that affect the entire transaction since it's all one holistic event? It depends upon the individuals that attract themselves to the interaction. If an individual is willing to go along with the vibration of being out of integrity, then the transaction may go through in that sense. But if an individual simply recognizes they have no need to allow themselves to match that frequency, then it would appear as if the transaction simply stopped, right? Didn't flow through. Okay? But in that sense it can be cloned and that's not necessary. Yeah. In fact just the object itself or it's both objects are both objects authentic.

**Questioner:** No common. Yeah that's good way to put it. So really now all our journey is about finding how to release that constipation and recognizing the beliefs etc that keep us locked into place. Yes. Cool. Another interpretation of letting go. Yes, sounds good to me.

**Questioner:** I got one other question. My little kitty has manifested a hyperthyroidism where her little heartbeat's running real high about 140 and it should only be 40. So, she's lost weight, but the doctor said she's in good shape. She's only about 11 years old, but she'll just have to take this medicine possibly for the rest of her life to keep the heartbeat down. In fact, she's running on speed.

**Bashar:** Not necessarily. However, it can be done naturally. But pay attention to this for again animals will reflect to some degree some of the things that you are doing. Yes. And they may take upon themselves some of what you may consider to be some of the more possible detrimental effects based on any remnant or residual fears that may still reside within your consciousness. They may take that on for you. So be kind to them and don't go faster than they can handle the processing of those things that they are taking on for you. You see, imagine that they were actually a valve, a regulating valve for all the processes that you are engaged in on your exploration of spirituality. And that any residue that doesn't belong in your perfect natural self, they will filter through themselves to some degree to take some of the strain off of you, but it will put a strain on them. So look to them to pace yourself by looking at the animal as a pacing regulator to see exactly at what speed you need to be progressing in order that they can be maintained in a balance of life along with your exploration simultaneously.

**Questioner:** She sure seemed to like it on New Year's Day I was there and I was playing with her. It was like the energy just flowed. I would just flow it into her.

**Bashar:** But any residual ideas that you may be processing in that experience that may cause what you would consider to be negative repercussions may be being taken on by the animal for you to support you in your research and your endeavor and your exploration. So pay attention to the fact that it may be difficult for that little body to filter all of that stuff and pace yourself accordingly to the cat's comfort level as well. And it can be taken care of naturally, doesn't necessarily require the idea of artificiality in medicine. You may explore that and find some way to be of assistance, but also just watch your patient about what you're doing. The cat is a reflection of respecting the true space of who and what you may be at any given moment. So pay attention to that as a barometer physiologically.

**Questioner:** And I don't because I only use the tenth once a year anyway, but as a very important tool, very valuable.

**Bashar:** All right. Don't necessarily assume that that regularity needs to be maintained.

**Questioner:** Oh, I agree. In fact, this may be the last time I ever do it. It's been such a great experience. But I to me they're not addicted in the least. I just see him as if it seems right. I do it.

**Bashar:** If you understood the idea of course to understand is that the experience you're actually having is you. Yeah. And that's what the voice kept saying. This is you. This is your frequency. Just accept it. Yes. But it was like my little body couldn't take it. You know, I mean it was like vibrating so much. And that is what the cat is reflecting to you. Yeah. Your little body can't quite take all of that. And therefore, I will put it to you this way. If somehow, just to speak beyond the idea of orchestration for a moment, hypothetically, as you would say in your language, if somehow you could have pushed yourself to even 159,000 cycles per second, the cat would have died. You understand? Really? Yes. Wow.

### Eighth Questioner: Allergies, Pine Trees, and the Horse's Message

**Questioner:** Of course, there are eight more lies. Use them wisely. Again, I thank you for your suggestion. Number two. Hi. And are you good day? How are you?

**Bashar:** Perfect. And you all right?

**Questioner:** Some interesting moment happening. I'm working with my friend Dana. Who? Dana. And she has been going to Dr. Debbie. And Dr. Debbie, she's been working with her on allergies and that and then Dana has been working with herself with these stones like the stones. And then her thing is to work with animals and she's been working with she worked with her dog and now he's perfectly fine when he supposedly was going to die in a couple of months. Okay. And she's working with some horses and she's having fantastic results there sort of combining what she's learned from Dr. Debbie and then using the stone for her own method of doing this.

**Bashar:** All right. Thank you for your sharing.

**Questioner:** Then what we both have run into but what she's wondering about is Dr. Debbie thinks that sometimes it takes more than one time to take the allergies depending upon the individual's space and place and state. Yes. All right. Then they may need reminders. Yes. As we have already illustrated. Okay. Yes. I picked that up. And she said that she thinks Dr. Debbie says that the more severe the allergy, that's why it takes more than one time.

**Bashar:** Not necessarily. Although that can in general be representative of the idea of the requirement of more reminders, but not always. Not in every case. There are always exceptions. Sometimes the severity can be transformed instantaneously. And in fact, sometimes the degree of the severity in one direction may make it actually easier to transform it completely in, as you say, one instantaneous moment because if the individual can use all the energy of what appears on one side to be very severe and snap to the other side with all that energy, then they will never go back to that level. All right? Depends on how it is done. If this is simply representative of this particular individual's relationship and interaction and that means all the individuals you have mentioned then that is the way it is but that doesn't mean that that's the way it has to be.

**Questioner:** All right. So what Dana is saying she says she has experienced for herself that usually she said 95% of the time it takes the first time and I'll just talk about her own experiences. Then she said a couple times it took like four times and then three or four times only at one other time. Now, she also said that when she's working with the animals, she noticed that like with her dog, it took twice. He within about a three maybe four week period of time when he was treated and then he seemed to be okay and then she had to treat him again for the time and it was the same thing for herself.

**Bashar:** And when that is usually an indication of the number of layers in any particular issue being dealt with. Sometimes individuals will have certain belief systems that are very surface belief systems or in a sense pure belief systems in that they may simply occupy one strata of their consciousness whether it be on a surface or fundamental. Sometimes an individual may have fractionated fragmented an issue into so many different strata or layers that the so-called repetition is an indication that they may have other layers to deal with before they have fully integrated that particular issue which they have privately.

**Questioner:** All right. Can I give you an example here because I don't know. Can you? No, I will. Thank you. All right. For herself and she was working with fem this new understand okay and then that's a hormone in the brain. Okay. And she needed more than one time for that. Then she also noticed that she was working with melatonin and that's a hormone in the brain. Yes. And she was wondering why has it taken more than one treatment for these as compared to a food or environmental allergen.

**Bashar:** Again it will depend upon how she is relating to what these things symbolize within her. And at the same time also of course in the original shall we say apothe nature it is always engineered to be a one-time shot. You understand? What might be represented or introduced to the body from the most natural representation will in most cases if it is truly absolutely natural be representative of a one-time reminder and that's all that's needed because that's how nature designed for a one-time reminder. Anything that is in your terms artificially produced in any way shape or form, no matter how natural the substance may be, that it is concentrated, focused, artificially produced, not the original form. May carry within it the symbology of multiple layers of issues just because it is in some senses processed. You follow me? Right? and therefore it may not take as hold as quickly as the pure natural original ingredient might have in its natural form. Or secondly, the idea in and of itself of an individual being attracted to utilize those things may be representative of a multi-layering within their consciousness that the attraction to the use of that thing in that form represents. Does that make sense to you? Yeah. All right. And there may be many other offshoots of this idea that also bear it explores.

**Questioner:** She was also go back to the pine with the pine tree. She noticed that her dog and herself were experiencing the allergy to pine trees and that took more than one.

**Bashar:** Yes. The pine tree in general in your society represents the ambassador of the plant kingdom, the interface, the representative of the plant kingdom to your people and all others for the plant kingdom. In that sense, therefore, the pine tree represents a culmination, a conglomeration, an amalgamation of information that touches on many, many, many, many, many different levels when you interface with it because it is giving you a holistic, shall we say, a representation of the whole kingdom of the plant within everything that it says to you. Therefore, it might strike many different chords and bring many different issues to bear and may take more than one interface to allow yourself to integrate all the information it has shared with you.

**Questioner:** Okay, I understand that. So it's not necessarily as no judgment in this not necessarily as simplistic as some other plant might be archetypally because like you in its own way it is representative in its own kingdom of an amalgamation a holographic representation and an interfaith ambassador between its kingdom and others so to speak.

**Bashar:** Of course this does not rule out the idea of freedom. Yeah. Okay.

**Questioner:** Then she noticed that how does that different then with the animals? I mean they're not into belief systems and why would it take but they are in many cases.

**Bashar:** They are archetypal reflections and therefore more purely reflect more purely mirror many of the immediate environmental relationships that they have attracted to themselves such as humans especially the idea of the dog for it is the symbol of service. Yes. Therefore, it will serve by reflecting very effectively the idea of the multitude of layering that may exist within any individual human's issue that it is in relationship with.

**Questioner:** Well, when she's working with somebody else's horse, it's not her horse. Yes. And still in a relationship with it. Yes. Right.

**Bashar:** But the horse will reflect generally the issues and relationships of the humans or other beings that it is in the primary relationship with. Therefore, understanding the humans as well and maybe even the plants it associates with and the rocks it associates with. Having a holistic point of view environmentally will also help her understand the specific animal she may be dealing with in any given moment. And this is a good rule of thumb for almost anything. Even your human doctors and human healers dealing with another human. Understanding the animals they relate to, the plants they relate to, the rocks they relate to, the environment as a total that they are in a relationship with will help the healer understand the vibration of the human more strongly, more clearly because then you're looking at them holistically with all the representational archetypes intact in context instead of just looking at one facet and attempting to understand what the heck the whole crystal looks like. Just by looking at one facet. Look at the whole crystal. That's very interesting.

**Questioner:** She called the other day and last Saturday and she was had been working with this horse and then the two nurses from the vet's office and the horse they were in a corral with the galvanized steel fencing right and the horse wasn't touching the fence but they were standing by it and each nurse was on the other side of the horse and Dana was using the stones and had talked to him and horse allergies and everything, right? And they all witnessed the fence just only where the horse was and the fence was totally vibrating, right? Very very strongly so that they all witnessed that and then when she stopped it stopped. Yes. Is that she and I asked her what she felt that that represented then and she felt it was the energy in a sense.

**Bashar:** Yes. But the lesson here is the horse attempting to show you by the convenient use of a conductive material that the horse is in relationship with the fence so that you will get the idea then humans. No offense is from the horse's mouth. Oh, okay. Great. So that you will get the idea that the thing to look at is the relationship not just the isolated objects or individuals but the relationship is what it's all about. So the horse was attempting to show that it is in relationship to the fence. Thus perhaps in that sense the idea is that the fence represents a barrier and thus in that sense it is your barrier that you do not understand that everything is in relationship. The horse was delivering a very multi-levelled message. Yes. So again you heard it from the horse's mouth. Pay attention.

**Questioner:** Oh that's fabulous. Does that help? Oh that's that's fabulous. How interesting. All right. I don't mean to be a naysayer. Thanks. The horse from the horse's mouth. Okay. All right. That's great.

**Questioner:** The other thing was that I had sent a large probably about 8 lb stone of the brown stone to the Philippines with my guy. He carried it over in the airplane in special suitcases and everything. and he had the green stone and the clear and all the others also and to be cut in the Philippines. And when he opened up the suitcase when he got to the Philippines, the brownstone had broken up into very very small pieces and that has never this was the first time that he had the brownstone. He had had the other stones before I cut it and never had any problems. But he also had said that he never has seen that happen with any other stones.

**Bashar:** And the mystery goes on. More exploration for you. No comment. Okay. Thank you. All right. Thank you.

### Ninth Questioner: Non-Physical Entities and Passion Fruit

**Bashar:** Three, two, one. In that order. Three. What is that? Okay. Three is one. One is three.

**Questioner:** Hi Bashar. I wanted to ask a question about kind of a continuing question with the crystal the analogy of the crystal and the reflections. Yes. Can you use that same analogy and tell me what the reflection of non-physical entities is?

**Bashar:** When we do you mean the reflection of the non-physical to you? Yeah. When I sense non-physical vibrations, energy. Yeah. That seems to they are a reflection if you wish or a representation of the mirror itself in a sense or shall we say more precisely the coating on the mirror that allows the reflections to occur. Are you understanding that analogy? If you take the idea of physical reality to be that in looking in a mirror you see the reflection but you take the idea of non-physical spirituality to be the understanding that the only way that that happens is that there is a reflective coating on the mirror which would be seen as the underlying structure of the reality itself. The reflective material the capability of the material to reflect is the non-physical spirit world the ethereal. That is how you can relate to it. Does that make sense? It makes sense. Sometimes I get confused as to I understand the oneness idea. But when I have these experiences when I wake up in the middle of the night and I'm in ecstatic states.

**Bashar:** Then you understand it. Is that what you are saying? That that's oneness. Yes. Okay. Sometimes the experiences feel like there are personalities or there are they may be guides. There may be other entities.

**Bashar:** There may be reflections of many of your own personality fragments, past lives, alternate realities. One big happy family. Yeah, it is a happy family. Things come and go. Each and every one of you is equivalent to Grand Central Station. Okay. Well, it's just interesting these relationships. Yes. That's all there is. Relationship. That's all there is is relationship. That's what your experiential reality is created from. Relationship. The very concept of relationship creates the ability to have an experiential reality that the one can reflect upon itself is the first relationship and that's what creates all other versions of that relationship.

**Questioner:** But in a situation where I had a very specific experience where well it can be representative of a specific interaction. So what is confusing you?

**Questioner:** I don't I'm not sure. I you are confused about your confusion. Yeah I actually am.

**Bashar:** Well, why not just say it plainly and perhaps you will be surprised at how clear it actually can be if you keep it simple instead of attempting to complicate it too much.

**Questioner:** Okay. Well, I want to know who these beings are.

**Bashar:** Well, then ask them. If you recognize that they are present, have you ever just asked who are you?

**Questioner:** No, because I'm either in a totally ecstatic state where I don't really care who they are.

**Bashar:** Well, then or it's a state where it appears that they're doing something to me. Yeah. And I don't really have any control over it. I see. But so, is there some state in between those two in which you can take some time to ask who they are? Yeah, but I don't trust what I get.

**Bashar:** I see. Well, that's the real issue then, isn't it? Yeah, it is. So the first question to answer is who are you? So take a moment then in those moments when you believe you are in the appropriate state to do so to ask yourself who you are. Who am I? Who am I? And see what answer you get. You may be profoundly surprised. And in fact in some cases and I don't mean to lead you in some cases the answer to that question will be the same answer you get from them but perhaps just from another point of view. Okay I did any of that make sense? Yes. Yes it did. Thank you. Then have fun.

**Questioner:** What one more quick question? A couple years ago at a channeling at that onion building some of you remember that place. We I was walking away from the microphone and you called me a name and you said that you would tell me at some point in the future what that meant. And the name passion fruit. Okay.

**Bashar:** Have you not discovered yet your own sweetness? Yes. And your own passion? Yes. Do I need to tell you? Or do you not trust yourself yet still?

**Questioner:** No. I've learned a lot from this interaction. Thank you, Bashar.

**Bashar:** Does this help you? Yes. There may yet be other information to tell you about that name. Here we go again. Okay. Here we go again, but not on the same level. You understand far more about passion now than you did before. And you understand far more about the idea of plucking the fruit from the tree that will sustain you. That you are the tree that gives birth to the fruit that then feeds you in turn to give birth to more fruit. Passion is a self-sustaining concept, a self-replicating, expanding, spiraling concept. And that is but a fraction of a fragment of what passion fruit is all about. So passionate, so alive is she. Thank you, Bashar. Does it help you? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Number two.

### Tenth Questioner: Cone, Tetrahedron, and Geometry

**Questioner:** Greetings. Andrew, you good day. I played with the cone. Yes. Me and my friend Oscar. And I showed it to Darl and I was wondering if you knew that if it was the 33 it is a good beginning. Okay. You will get some effect from that. It will of course from time to time waver in and out of precision just because it is of a material that can in a sense stretch and collapse. However, you will get some good effects from time to time and it is a good thing to begin to play with. Now, putting on our head in the garden is Are these questions? Yeah, they are. Then perhaps you should put the hat on and make statements out of them. Okay. If you do wear the cone, does it allow you to choose to feel different? Of course. Then is the difference capable of allowing you to make statements? Oh, I don't need to wear it to make statements. That's true. But I could ask questions with the hat on, too. Yes. But you may find that when you do, you will answer more of them yourself. Oh, sure. You got it. And now I'm going to make some statements. Go ahead.

**Questioner:** I've been doing fun first in 97. Yes. And I'm actually doing the things that I would save to the end of the day and then be too tired to do. Now, does this have to do with the idea that you were making a question of for us? Would you address that issue with the hat on about being in the garden? I'd say try it. I'd say do it. Well, that's what I meant. Okay. Now, my other questions. You want to wear it? I don't want to wear it right now. You see, at this particular moment, she feels pointless. Pointless? No, I feel I feel just pointy without it. Thank you. Yes. We assume you understand that was one of your jokes. Of course. Thank you.

**Questioner:** I wanted to ask you, I was telling you about the fun first. I've been making a lot of mosaics and I've been playing with that and doing it. I also was going to ask you on the Could you tell me how tall the cone would be? That Okay, I was going to do centimeters because the 33 in would be big. The one that was 33 and a3 high and around the circumference. Yeah. If I was doing in centimeters with a 19.5 angle, if I was going to do that in centimeters, 33 and a3 around and 33 at the apex, is that the height of the cone, not the angle, the angle of the 33 cone in that sense or 33 and a3 more precisely. You understand? It's not 33. It's 33 and a3 units around the base and circumference and 33 and a3 units high for that particular cone. The angle of that cone is 19.5 degrees.

**Questioner:** Well, I was going to ask you how tall it has to be for what? For that 33 and a3 in metrics.

**Bashar:** That is how high it will be is the 33 and a third. 33 and a third of any unit you choose. Yeah. Well, I'm choosing the metrics. Okay. But again, it can be 33 and a3 centimeters. It can be 33 and a3 meters. It can be 33 and a3 kilometers as long as it is 33 and a3 of whatever unit you choose.

**Questioner:** When I when we were working on it, it just didn't work as easy as it sounds. In what way? Well, I got a strip of paper that was the circumference and I made one that would be that height, but then making it into a cone was changed the parameter. Is that what you were saying? I it just didn't translate. Yes. Well, this is what we have already discussed with you in terms of allowing yourself to practice and study and get used to the idea of geometry. Yeah, I like it. I want I'm going to play with that more.

**Questioner:** My friend Dave Pine Tree, speaking of pine trees, yes, he wanted to say hi. Do you remember him in some context? A dolphin Dave is what I call him. So he's over in Maui. He wanted me to say hi. Hi to you. All right. Hi Six from Dave. All right. Message received and sent.

**Questioner:** Would you tell me what Violet's birthday is? Right. By not this time. Okay.

**Questioner:** Our friend Joe Brown we came to tonight together and he start his heart was hurting him a lot and before I went to come here we are in discussion with him about this separately. So I don't need to ask you what he asked me to ask you. Not at this time. No. Okay.

**Questioner:** Do you know what the Zavuya is? Define. Jose Aras did a book called Surfers of the Zuya, I think the name of it. And it to me it seems like that wave of energy sort of like the photon belt.

**Bashar:** It is not the same. Not exactly. It is connected to the idea of a wave energy or perhaps an awakening and a recognition within a certain cultural context. But again, we will not go into detail at this time.

**Questioner:** And I wanted to share a fun synchronicity as I found a crystal that looks like a surfboard. All right. For myself, then ride your way.

**Bashar:** I am. Thanks. Thank you. How to you number one.

### Eleventh Questioner: Cone Patterns and Geometry

**Questioner:** Hi Bashar. And to you, good day. I was working I made a pattern of the drawing that Daryl gave us for the comb. Okay. And it came out quite different than Antonet's. I made three patterns and when I put them together it came together as three angles that came together as three angles that came together. Now so does this can this work also rather than being bent around in a circle.

**Bashar:** Define what you are describing as three angles coming together.

**Questioner:** They were straight angles so I had three hard angles as it came you know three triangles I'm going to call it triangles three-sided pyramid yes thank you a tetrahedron. That's how it came together.

**Bashar:** That is a different structure with a different effect. If it is in the proper ratio or a similar proportional ratio, it will have the ability to tap into the similar energy bandwidth. But being a tetrahedron, it will create very different effects than the cone which resonates precisely with regard to the idea as a wave guide for the concept of wavelengths of energy. Whereas the tetrahedron will automatically translate the energy in a variety of ways that may not necessarily be immediately perceivable or as perceivable to your instrumentation as the cone.

**Questioner:** Okay. All right. Well, that's what my question was because I couldn't see how the exact perimeters could be exact when it was circular. But I guess it would have to be of a rigid material to hold its exactly.

**Bashar:** Have you never made a cone? No. Well, no. I'll tell you the truth now. Do you have a flat piece of paper? Yeah, I do. Well, I'll do it. Starting at a corner, roll it up, but keep the corner at the apex and you will have a cone. Don't roll it into a tube. Okay. Roll it from the corner. One point. Roll it in that sense in an arc with that point always being at the apex and you will have a cone. Now how you gauge that will determine the dimensions of the cone. You understand? Yes. How hard you roll, how soft you roll, how full, how small, how far, how big the piece of paper will allow you to adjust the angle of the cone and so forth. Okay, but that is one way to make a cone. Again the idea is as we have suggested that if you want to play with these ideas gain some proficiency at the creation of these objects. There are many ways to do this however and again the idea is that you have technology to allow you a variety of ways of achieving this. You don't necessarily have to roll things and fold things in that sense. You can as you say carve them, lathe them, mold them, do a variety of things to create the cone form. Okay. Does this help you? Yes, it does. I'll start.

**Bashar:** There are three that we are discussing now specifically. Number one is a cone wherein it is represented at the apex of an angle of 33.9 degrees. You follow? Okay. The idea is that this represents the primary Fibonacci sequence constructed inside to represent the idea of phi ratio relationships. That phi ratio being 1 to 1.618 for each successive drop as we had originally instructed the diagram to be created. The other two are a cone as we have said of apex 19.5 degrees which will result in a cone that is 33.3 units high and 33.3 units around the circumference. This has a slightly different effect and connects into the idea of certain earth energies and template matrices. The other and most simple idea that often on your planet has been rendered into the idea of a four-sided pyramid is the cone or the four-sided pyramid that is represented by the idea of the Giza great pyramid. For you will find that that pyramid is directly representative of the phi ratio in that the height being one is exactly in ratio to the base which is 1.618. Thus giving you the idea of angles at the corners of 51 degrees and an angle at the apex of 78 degrees which is exactly the angles of the great pyramid. Does that make sense?

**Questioner:** In that sense what you would call the diameter. Yes.

**Questioner:** I have a question. I awakened thinking of this conical shape and I seemed to get this in my dream and what occurred to me is because I kept going around well how am I going to get this 33 and a3 units and what size unit and how would it work and what I came up with is that it wouldn't matter what the unit is if the height and the circumference are identical that would achieve what I'm trying to do. So, okay. So, but the format coat, yes, the form I constructed, I guess the piece of paper wasn't large enough for me to make the circumference go around my head, so it just kind of sat on my head. All right. And then I started noticing that there were conical shapes in many things like the party hat and I started seeing them all over the place. And those Yes. And I put on this New Year's hat to do some writing at my computer. Okay. And I thought that might be helpful to me and I decided I would wear the hat to access information. The cone was a different form.

**Bashar:** However, it was not like the all cones will in general function as etheric antennas to some degree, but the relative precision in following certain frequency ratios will determine how efficient the energy is brought in and how it is translated. But all cones will to some degree create that effect on some level. Okay.

**Questioner:** Well, what I'm checking out with you then, my idea was if the circumference and the height were the same and then I thought, well, I could measure this and then do it on a calculator and figure out what the unit is and get something if I needed to. But that seems superfluous. What the intent seemed to be the matching. Is that the correct idea here?

**Bashar:** And the creation of the 19.5 degree angle at the apex. That is critical.

**Questioner:** Okay. Well, I'm not sure I got that perfectly. What about the material though? I was using tag board.

**Bashar:** Again different effects will be created by different materials, different sizes, different locations. It is up to all of you to experiment and see what you get.

**Questioner:** So, we should just continue playing.

**Bashar:** You don't have to should. Well, I mean I want to that's what I intend to do. Thanks. There will be in what you call the near future, if you wish, a class given that will specifically deal with the idea of the creation of many such shapes and their appropriate utilization.

