---
heading: Part 1
title: "Tesseract Workshop"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1997-07-11
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 161
tags: ['']
---



## Polyhedral Structures and Dimensional Access -- The Nine Regular Polyhedra

We would like to begin first of all by recounting and illuminating the idea of how the polyhedron structures that you are exploring can be utilized in a variety of ways to enhance and increase and expand your understanding and your ability to connect to other dimensional realms of information within and without.

You first of all let us do what you would call in your language a recap of what you are familiar with as the regular polyhedral structures.

First of all you will find that there are actually in total of those we will discuss this day of your time nine. There will be six that will be physiological. There will be three that will be higher dimensional.

Now, more often than not, you will hear on your planet of the five regular solids specifically meaning what you refer to as the five platonic solids, again specifically meaning that they are associated their recognition in a sense their quote unquote discovery is associated with the entity that you call on your planet Plato but there are actually six regular solids one of which was not known to Plato but has since been recognized by your civilization.

Let us begin with the six physiological regular polyhedrin.


## The Six Physiological Regular Polyhedra

1. The tetrahedron is a four-sided structure or not counting the base, a three-sided pyramid, but including the base, four sides, each side being an equilateral triangle.

2. The cube has six sides each of which is a square.

3. The equilateral octahedron. Eight sides as equilateral triangles.

This would be like two four-sided pyramids stuck together at the square base.

4. The dodecahedron. You have two dodecahedrons.

5. The pentagonal dodecahedron made of 12 pentagons. 

There is the rhomboid dodecahedron made of 12 rhombus shapes which are diamond shapes. 

So there are two 12 faced polyhedrin two types of dodecahedron.

You can experiment and we will get to this in a moment with constructing the rhomboid dodecahedron.

6. The final sixth regular polyhedral structure is the 20-sided figure 20 triangles equilateral triangles that you call the icosahedron. 


## The Three Higher Dimensional Polyhedra

Now we enter the dimension of higher realms. 

7. The **tetragrammaton** is like a tetrahedron.

It is a 4-sided figure made of 4 regular equilateral triangles.

But unlike the typical regular tetrahedrin, each of the triangular faces, each of the four is actually the base of another whole tetrahedrin pointing inwards inside the structure.

It is as if each face were a completely separate tetrahedrin contained within the overall outside tetrahedrin. 

**This is because each face is actually the side of an interdimensional tetrahedrin and they all overlap.** 

**All of them overlap.**

So this is a 20-sided figure. You have:
- the overall tetrahedron which is the outside one with four sides
- the 16 as 4 x 4
- 16 + 4 is 20. 

You have a 20-sided **in another dimension**, not in your dimension. It only is 4-sided in your dimension.

**The next, the seventh, is the tesseract. That is the cube or the hyper cube as you may call it. Again, the same principle applies.**

This is that each square face is the side of a completely different cube. 

So you have 7 cubes:
- 1 whole cube outside
- each face represents another completely different cube making another six. 

So you have 42 faces in this polyhedral structure. But again most of them are in another dimension.

It's like a cube that you can step into any face and be inside the cube as if it were simply a hollow structure. 

But that is what would happen in your normal three-dimensional cube. You would simply step through one of the faces and be inside the same cube.

In the hyper cube, in the tesseract, any face you step through would actually put you into a cube separate from any other cube you step through any other face to enter. 

Each face is the side of a completely different cube. 

**They are all intersecting, but they do not interact. They do not meet.**

If you step through one face, you are in cube number one. 

If you step through another face, you're in cube number two.

The things that are contained inside cube number one, if anything at all, will not appear inside cube number two when you step through face number two. 

This is the whole concept of **higher dimensional polyhedral physics**.

The final in that sense is really simply what you recognize as a sphere for in that sense it is unidirectional.

You have this in a sense even in your own reality and it can be said to be the idea of the zero point even before the tetrahedrin in physical terms for when you step in a sphere is the same in all directions. 

This is the same in the higher dimensions as well.

When you step into the hypersphere, you now have an infinite array of possible realities that you could experience.

This is because each point on the surface of the sphere is really a completely different sphere.

So while in the physical reality the sphere being the zero (not the one) will simply be that you step into a ball and it is the same ball. 

But in the higher dimensions, the sphere will be an infinite array of realities an infinite array of spheres contained within the same sphere.

So you have the zero and infinity at either end of the spectrum of the interim 8 or an octave of polyhedra.



## The Numerical Progression of Polyhedra

So the progression in terms of the sides or faces starts with:

1. Physical sphere for 0
2. Tetrahedron for 4 
3. Cube for 6
4. Octahedron 8
5. 2 Dodecahedron 12
6. Icosahedron 20
7. Tetragrammaton 20
8. Tesseract or Hypercube 42
9. Hypersphere infinity

Then you will have the cube for six. Then you will have the equilateral octahedron for eight. Then you will have two dodecahedrons. 12-faced figures. 

Then you will have the icosahedron 420. Then you will have the tetragrammaton 420 again forming the bridge connector from physical to non-physical reality with the same number of faces inward that the icosahedron has outward. 

the tesseract or the hyper cube for 42
the hypersphere for infinity.

So this is the count. Then as you have it zero to the idea then of four and then six and then 8 and then 12 and then 20 and then 42 and then infinity.


## The Underlying Templates of Reality

These forms are some of:
- the most basic structures in what you call nature physical reality. 
- the underlying templates or building blocks for how things arrange themselves in physical reality.

These arrange themselves atomically and even subatomically, but also on a larger scale a macrocosmic scale.

Even relationships of energy follow these patterns in general. 

There are other patterns. But these are the regular ones, that is ones that have faces that are equal to every other face. 

These form the basic skeleton of the underlying template of how things are arranged or the relationships that exist throughout many different dimensions that are all connected to your particular universal reality, physical and etheric.

The hyperdimensional connections as well but we will concentrate and focus on what will be most applicable to your reality since of course that happens to be where you're focused at the moment.


## How to Use These Forms

One of the ways to use these forms is whether you do this in your own imaginations in your minds in your mind's eye so to speak or whether you create some kind of media format in which to view this occurring will not really matter as long as simultaneously to any assistive tool you may be using outside, you also will allow this to be going on in your imagination.

At the same time, when you can begin to imagine or visualize these forms inside your mind, inside your imagination, when you can see them in your mind's eye dimensionally, and you can begin to move them, to turn them, to spin them, to rotate them in your mind, you will find that they actually have the capability of making changes within you.

1. They will make energetic changes
2. They will instill neurological changes
3. They can even instill physiological changes within you

They are like skeleton keys.

When you can hold the form in energy strongly and begin to associate with it strongly and begin to move it in space and time, then it will move you in space and time. You will go along with it. 

It will carry you in a sense into different orientations, different perspectives, allow you to perceive and access different dimensional perspectives of information or reality.

So these are the keys turning in the locks. And as you become more proficient at turning them, then you will find you will be able to open more locks, open more doors, and begin to perceive through inspirational methods, through meditational methods, through artistic expressional methods, through many different creative methods.

You will be able to perceive instant insights and perceptions of things you heretofore had not imagined. And you will find that you can also use these to take these new perspectives of information and figure out ways to apply this information to adapt this information to your physical reality to create new things to have new ideas to apply new methodologies to create new results new effects in your reality.

This is the primary utilization that we will be discussing. There will be other utilizations that we can also perhaps touch on in this first preliminary discussion about the use of these regular polyhedra.



## Questions

### Discernment and Intention

Asker: Are there any discernment we should be aware of?

Bashar: There are many discernments that you need to be aware of. 

It will depend upon one primary thing and that is your intention. Your initial intention in going in. In other words, your reasons, your perspective about why you are using these things. For what reasons, what purposes, what applications are you using these techniques and these tools?

Your intention, your perception, and the clarity thereof will be the primary discernments that you need to have. If you are relatively clear about your intentions as to why you are doing what you're doing with these tools and you are relatively clear about your ideas for what you see for yourself and who you are then you will find that in being clear on that level almost no other discernment is really necessary for any other kind of discernment would be in a sense incidental or peripheral to those fundamental original factors of self discernment, self clarification.

use these tools to take a moment or two or three or four. There is no rush in this to make sure that you are clear in your intention at least in general as to why it is you think this is a tool you want to use. What is it you think it is supposed to be doing for you?

Now, yes, there will be issues from time to time of expectation and desire and so on and so forth that can be simplified, clarified so that you do not necessarily get, shall we say, caught up in the idea that there may or is supposed to be a particular and only one particular end result of this. There can be very very very many different kinds of effects you will receive from utilizing these tools.

And that's why it's so critical to be clear to begin with about who you are, what your intention is, because that is what will determine what you find in a sense on the other side of the tool.

But that takes self-assessment, honest self-examination about your beliefs, your emotions, your thoughts, what it is you define reality to be, all the basic fundamental tools we have discussed for 14 of your years with regard to clarifying your personality structure.

Once your personality structure is clarified through examination of thoughts, emotions and belief system patterns, then you will find that your intentions will also be clear and your applications will also be clear and sound.


Any other specific discernment that any of you need to shall we say be aware of or keep an eye out for we will touch on in the actual exercises in the meditation.


## Common Obstacles

**Okay. What are the most common obstacles that prevent us from accessing other dimensions realities in a sense?**

Bashar: The most common obstacle is yourself -- the non belief that you already contain everything. That is really the only obstacle that each of you have created on your planet is you simply are not being the fullest selves you can be.

You don't have to:
- berate yourself for this
- feel guilty about this because that will only add more judgment and more difficulty and more obstacles

But it is only how you see yourselves.

That's why we stressed it so strongly that it is imperative **you have clarity about who and what you are.**

Because it is only your definitions of yourself that create the limitations called obstacles that would prevent you from accessing this all the time because this is natural.

That's the first thing to remember -- This is natural. 

<!-- This that we are describing to you now and will continue to describe throughout this transmission are only descriptions in certain forms in certain terms of that which is your natural self as a being, as a consciousness, as an entity. -->

You create a personality structure as a mask to represent or present your consciousness in physical terms. 

This mask can contain thoughts, perspectives, ideas that will place limitations on your true knowing natural self's ability to access anything and everything within the infinite in whatever way is appropriate for the dimension in which you are focused.

So that's really the only obstacle. 

Anything that we may name as a specific obstacle, watch out for this, watch out for that, will still always only be a variant of the obstacle of not believing in yourself, of not knowing who you are, of not being your true natural original core self.

But that's what this transformational age on your planet is all about is remembering who you are. Not learning, not learning who you need to become. Remembering who you already are.

So in knowing this is step one really in knowing that it's all about simply remembering who you already are. 

That recognition and realization alone will accelerate your ability to utilize these tools in a much much much more profound way because you will know going in. It's not something you have to learn how to do that you don't already know how to do. You're just remembering what you've forgotten and therefore it's much easier.


## Preparation

But first and foremost again the idea has to do with personality structure. The most important thing you can do, any of you, to prepare yourselves, so to speak, just to use that euphemism in your language, because in some senses, even the concept of preparation can be misleading. But the most important thing you can do to use your words to prepare yourself is to again take time to examine your definitions of reality in every circumstance that you believe is important to you.

Look at all the things in your life that are important to you, really important and really representative of your true desires and excitement and decide, discover, explore and discover what really are your definitional relationships to that concept. How do you define yourself relative to that concept to that thing you say represents your ideal self? How are you the way you define your relationship to reality? How are you different than that ideal definition you have that you say you want to be?

That's the real first step of preparation is to find out what definitions allow there to be or appear to be a difference between the so-called idealized you and the you you believe yourself to be. When you discover what that difference is in definition, you will then have the automatic power to change that definition. And in changing and transforming that definition, bringing yourself either at least closer to or in perfect alignment with the vibration of your idealized self.

And that is really the preparation that needs to be done is definition and redefinition.

**Does it not make sense to anyone in particular? If so, speak up. We want to make sure you are all understanding what we mean by these translational terms.**

**Could you give an go through an example with us on top?**

**Yes.**

The idea again therefore is the concept of definition and we have used this many times. 

Look at even the definitions of some words such doubt.

Most of you have been taught to define doubt as a lack of trust. But this is not so. 

Doubt to us is a 100% trust in a definition that doesn't work for you, that isn't aligned to your truth. 

You never ever ever, and believe me, you can take me absolutely 100% literally on this with no exceptions whatsoever. 

You never for a second have ever had, are not now, and never ever for all time ever will have one moment where you actually lack trust.

The issue and the question is not how do you learn to trust but what definition are you putting your trust in? That's the only difference.

When you understand that you never lack trust then you never have to learn how to trust. It's automatic. It's who and what you are. It's built into you as a creator. 

You are made in the image of God or Creation. You are a creator, a cocreator.

Therefore, it's automatic that you must trust that something at any given moment is true.

Were it not so, you would have no experiential reality at all in that you have some experience that shows you you believe in something. You trust that something will happen. You may not always be consciously aware of what your trust is placed in. And that's part of the preparational experience.

Find out what definition you put your trust in that would then result in the reality that you get being the most likely one because it's that there is no empirical reason, none whatsoever, why that particular definition has to be any more real or less real than any other definition. You could put your trust in and get an experiential reflection from.

All definitions of reality are equal, neutral, equal and neutral. None of them have any more ability to manifest than any other. The ones that manifest are the ones you put your strongest energy in. And the way you determine, your motivation for determining what definition you buy into most strongly has to do with what definitions you have been taught to believe are true.

But it's only a definition and it is only a belief about reality, not of reality. Because there is no reality. There is no reality except your definition of it. That's what reality is.


## Supporting the Whole Through Individuality

Now we understand that because of inertia in a sense and momentum and agreements and agendas and the idea of playing a certain game by certain rules, you're going to all experience a certain level of automatic manifestation that makes it seem as if your physical reality is unchangeable except in very slight degrees.

But even that is an agreement. And while you don't necessarily have to completely change the fundamental agreement, you don't have to completely divest yourself from the overall collective consciousness of your species of your world in order to make a change. The idea is that you can be far more flexible with your definitions, far more malleable with your definitions about the kinds of reality individually that you can experience even within the collective.

You don't have to be rigidized in the sense of being homogenized to an overall collective idea of what is supposed to happen or what is possible to happen within that framework of that very fundamental basic agreement that certain things will probably stay the same such as gravity generally though you can change that too but generally for all of your personal desires. You will not necessarily need to change the idea of gravity in order to really experience fuller manifestation of your own individual truth within the collective.

Because again I remind you and this is also very important to understand and this is all very pertinent to the utilization of these tools. I remind you the only true way this is the paradox. Remember paradox is the true power. When you're in paradox that's when you're in your true center of power. So anytime you see paradox you know you're on the right track.

So the true way that you support the whole is not in a sense by homogenizing yourself so that everyone becomes alike but that you express your full individual uniqueness. That's how you support the whole.

The example we have used and this will be very quick so that we can move on to the next question is the puzzle picture. All of you have played with the idea generally or know about the idea of what you call picture puzzles on your planet. You have many little pieces that you put together and they form a big picture.

Now you know if you think about it for a moment that the only way you're going to get that big picture is if you take each and every one of those differently shaped pieces and find out exactly where they fit. If all of those pieces decided to change their shape from their natural selves, you wouldn't be able to form the big picture and therefore the big picture could not support or give in a sense validation to the individual pieces that came together to create it.

We are not saying that you should never change but that you will never necessarily need to not be yourself in any change that you make. 

You can change the picture on the puzzle pieces, but you don't necessarily have to change your basic shape, your truth, your nature, your true unique self in order to support the whole.

When you become your unique puzzle piece fully, when you honor your original shape fully, then you fit perfectly with all the other pieces who are also willing to be their true shape. And together automatically you create the whole picture that then supports all the pieces. It is only when you try to be something you are not that the whole picture cannot be created.


## Music for Access

**In preparing ourselves, is there any specific music that we can listen to for easy access?**

In a sense your favorite. However, do understand that again hearkening back to some of the generalized truths that you all have agreed to abide by in recognizing that what we are actually talking about here are ratios and relationships. Then you can understand that the music in general that has the highest representation of golden proportion ratios and relationships will be the kind of music in general most conducive to helping you vibrationally align with these tools.

Since the music that contains the same ratios as the tools themselves, the polyhedra exhibit, that will give you the best chance for some kind of synchronization with the form.

So the idea is in general you will find that many of what you would call your classical pieces especially what you would call again your Bach and Beethoven and your Mozart and this is not to exclude many of your modern pieces as well but allow yourself to feel or even analytically examine the chord structures the types of scales used and discover those pieces that have the highest amount and most consistent and coherent and creative use of what you would call classical golden proportion geometries in the relationship of the chords and the notes to each other will be the ones most conducive for success in this particular context.

Now in general though there are different ways to express this phi ratio. Proportions are those ratios that are in golden sections usually referred to as a ratio of 1 to 1.618. Look for that first.

Then allow yourself also the opportunity, if you are not necessarily the analytical type, to feel which pieces of music vibrate you, move you, and I mean even move you emotionally. Those pieces you can intuit it. And the ones that move you strongest are the ones that you need to use.

In general, it will be pieces that will allow you to experience a calm but profound sense of energy, of life, of fullness, bigness, if you wish, large scale energies and consciousnesses expressing these things if you wish.

These are the types of music to look for and they can be of great assistance since all is vibration and any form you can bring vibration, sound, light, what have you, will assist you in harmonizing, and synchronizing with these polyhedral tools.

But again understand that there may be variations of any particular kind or type of music that may exhibit more or less of the kind of ratios that we are talking about. And of course that can also vary from piece to piece. Right? In any general type of music there can be a piece that can exhibit a high degree or a high amount of phi ratio harmonics.


## Example: Holst's "Mars" and the Tetrahedrin

There are many examples, but it will depend also on intention and focus for what kind of energy you want to utilize or express.

For example, a given piece of music depending on its kind of harmonics will have a slightly different effect if you use that same piece of music while concentrating or meditating on a different polyhedron.

For example, Gustav Holst's Mars is a very strong harmonic piece that when used appropriately allows strong regenerative physical healing properties to link and anchor you to ground paradoxically to the Earth.

This is because the Earth is the polar opposite of Mars.

You can use Mars with various tetrahedral tools to form a gateway paradoxical link up to use that energy and translate and apply that energy, that vibration to ground you to the earth and energize your body simultaneously with the proper male and female polarities to achieve balance.

In using Mars, beginning with the tetrahedrin as a 3D star of David as a tetrahedrin pointing up, intersecting with a tetrahedrin pointing down.

Then slowly rotate both in a clockwise and counterclockwise direction. 

The one pointing up rotates clockwise.

The one pointing down rotates counterclockwise. 

You can reverse them as long as they are going in opposite directions.

That vibration from that music will function as a prismatic lens.

As you visualize these 2 tetrahedrons intersecting and turning within each other, it will help in:
- the energization of your body
- the balancing of the polarity of the male and female energy within you. 

This is symbolically represented by the idea of Earth and Mars. You follow Mars and Earth.


## The Shri Yantra

Asker: The mathematics of the Shri Yantra circle have been used as a basis for creating music based on the seven triangle. The nine triangle. I would assume that that has great power in the way you've been speaking now.**


It correlates to the nine levels of regular polyhedra that we have already discussed and described. Each of those triangles correlates to each of those polyhedral levels and evokes from them their specific and unique vibrational resonances in that you can use them all together. 

That is a master set. And in using all of those vibrations together as a master set, you can really unlock something powerful.

And so this is why in ancient times it was understood and this is a technique and an art that has to some degree been forgotten. The idea of the designing of mantras and yantras were for a shorthand encodation into gleaning and activating those specific resonant frequencies all at once in the proper and appropriate relational harmonic chord that would activate them all simultaneously. 

It's like a shorthand version of what we are doing in this overall process description today.

So, anything that has to do with meditational utilization in yogic practice or chanting practice of those mantras and yantras will to some degree also be an accelerative way to utilize much of the information that we will be discussing today.

This is because they are all correlated in ancient times. You can use them that way now when you understand what you're doing.


## Question: Accessing Different Realities

Asker: How do we go into and access the different realities?

To some degree, we will experience a little bit of this later. 

But to give you a little bit of a foundation, let us go back to the description we have already given of the Earth Mars connection and the two interpenetrating counterrotating tetrahedrin, one pointing up, one pointing down.

imagine those two tetrahedral structures, one pointing up, one pointing down, counterrotating slowly, gently, smoothly within each other.

if you approach this from a particular point of view, let us say that you imagine that you move into it and into the center of it. 

So that in looking up you see part of the structure turning. 

Looking down you see another part of the structure turning. Standing still looking ahead, you see the intersections merging, demerging, reemerging with each other.

If you learn how to perceive these things, and this is why sometimes visual aids can be of benefit.

you have the ability to create what you would call animations or computer graphic animations that will help you visualize these things. 

But if you can do that then the idea is that you will begin to perceive that each and every variant each and every intersection each and every blending each and every crossing will itself be like a different tone or a different key on an instrument.

You will begin to gravitate toward those particular patches or areas that to you represent the strongest correlation or synchronization with your original intention which is to be your fullest self. 

So your original intention to be your fullest self will help you **gravitate** toward those areas of vibrational resonance that will open up doorways that are most specifically already and automatically designed to bring you the information that will help you with that fundamental idea or intention.

Imagine that you have your spectrum in front of you. 

You have your red moving into your orange, into your yellow, into your green, into your blue, into your indigo, and into your violet.

What area did you gravitate toward first?

**Violet.**

Pure violet or a shade in between?

**Where are you in the violet? Are you toward the indigo? Are you purely in the violet?**

**Toward the indigo.**

This shows that your strongest fundamental desire is for the specific reaching and integrating with the higher self, the higher soul understanding, the higher soul point of view. 

That overview. This is what this is generally indicative of as your fundamental intention at that particular moment.

**Do you follow this analogy?**

**Yes. I'm hearing music.**

All right. Thing go around. Very good. Very good.

**What are you hearing? Can you describe it?**

**Tones, not a particular song, but just sounds as turns it makes a specific sound.**

Very good. This again as we have said will be part of the idea, part of the experience. 

It will be vibration in some form or another. And you will find the cord that represents you and it will pull you. You will gravitate to those sections that will be at that moment. Not that they won't change later, but at that moment most strongly synchronized with your highest intention.

And in that in letting yourself be immersed, here's the key. Just as you let yourself be attracted to the violet and you let yourself go into it, let yourself be attracted and let it overwhelm you. Let it go through you. Let it wash through you. Let it immerse you. Let it surround you. Let it completely engulf you.

That will be the state, the frequency at that moment.

If you open up your imagination, your inspiration, your creativity, your heart at that moment, you will start to receive feelings, information, pictures, insights, visualizations, sounds, all the things that are germane specifically to the vibrational frequency and the tools and the ideas and bits of information that are most conducive if you will use them and apply them to being your fullest self at that moment.


## Critical Point: Total Immersion

It is **CRITICAL** that you understand that you can really go into these shapes. 

When we say give yourself whatever assistance you can by building these shapes, by creating computer animations of these shapes, whatever you can do to enhance your ability as strongly as you can to fully feel the fullest form of the experience of being engulfed by these shapes and all of the nuances within them. Whatever you can do, do it. And I mean, do it.

You will find, and this may not seem at first to make a difference, but it will. You will find that if you hold back even one iota in expressing your full creative ability to simulate or manifest some kind of environment as best as you can that would give you the strongest sense of actually interacting with these shapes. If you hold back one iota, you may find that one iota can actually be the difference between achieving the desired effect or not achieving it at all.

This is heavily heavily reliant on your willingness to fully explore and actively experiment in creating the environment in all ways you can. In other words, you need to immerse yourself. You need to in a sense almost overwhelm yourself with these shapes.

And now I do not mean the following in a negative way but just to illustrate the point of how strongly this needs to be infused within your energy for the purpose and for the duration and for the timing that you want to achieve an effect that you want there to be an effect. You must become obsessed in all ways, shapes, and form you can with creating these shapes. Cut them out of paper, cut them out of cardboard, make animations, make drawings, make sounds that go with them. Get music, get color, get light, get everything, every ingredient.

Otherwise, it will be like baking a cake and leaving out an ingredient. It's not going to rise or it's not going to taste like you want it to taste unless you have everything there. So one of the strongest things in using what we are going to talk about is not only the idea of just meditating and just seeing it but really filling your world with these shapes until until they are so second nature.

Here's the key. until they are so second nature you start to dream about them. When you start to dream about them, when you start to think in them, then you will be speaking the higher dimensional language. And when you can speak the higher dimensional language, you will understand when the higher dimensional language is spoken to you.

It's just like what your people say about learning any other language. When you start to think in the other language, that's when you really know how to speak the other language. Up to that point, you are to some degree fluent. But up to that point, you're simply kind of mimicking. It's not in your blood. And therefore, you may have a little bit of difficulty understanding someone else when they speak that language very quickly. You have to say, "Slow down. I didn't quite get that. I'm not following you. I can't think that fast."

When you start dreaming of these shapes, when you start breathing these shapes, when you start thinking in these shapes, then when the messages from the higher dimensions come through these gates and shapes to you, you will automatically know how to translate them back into the language of your physical reality that will make it clear how to apply the information.

This is one of the most important things we have to tell you about how to utilize anything and everything that we're going to talk about in this transmission. 

So total immersion like learning a language?

Yes


## The Tesseract and the Fourth Dimension

**Asker:** Will the tesseract help us help put us permanently into the fourth dimension?

yes. Although you will remind yourself through it that you already exist in the fourth dimension.

Therefore, you'll become used to knowing you already exist in the fourth dimension. And you can utilize these tools to help you remember that.

permanency again has to do with choice and intention. Why wouldn't it be permanent? Unless there is some reason why you wouldn't want it to be. And if there is some reason why you wouldn't want it to be, then it's your reason. And that's all right too.

But the point is is that they will not have the power to do anything. They will be used by you to remind yourself that you are already there permanently. And if you know that, then there will be nothing to take you away from there. Because being there will always be your choice.

Remember, it's not a matter of slipping out of something. You never slip out of anything. You choose to go where you go, consciously or unconsciously. You may call the unconscious choice a slip, but it isn't really a slip. And that's one of those definitions that would be helpful for you to change. Because as long as you believe you can slip, then you'll experience an unconscious choice as a slip. You won't know it's a choice. It'll remain unconscious and you will never give yourself the opportunity to know that it is a choice that you can change.

**Will fourth dimension reality perspective enable us to better access other levels of reality and dimensions?**

**Does being on the fourth rung make it easier to get to the fifth?**

**Absolutely.**

**Then you know how to climb a ladder and your question answers itself. Okay?**

Because if the definition if your definition of fourth-dimensional or fourth density reality is that it has a broader perspective is that it allows you to see more information then would not more information make it easier to see yet more information and so on and so on and so on.

So yes, and without in any way, shape or form meaning any judgment or offense whatsoever, but just to illustrate a point to you, perhaps to help drive it home, that was a very third density question.

To wonder whether or not being on a higher level will allow you to see farther is the kind of doubt I or trust in realities that don't work for you that we were talking about before. This is very familiar.


## Time Travel

**Is this a form of time travel in a sense?**

Yes. It can be utilized in a variety of ways that will allow you to interpenetrate what you would call time streams. However, you must understand something very important about the concept you have on your planet of so-called time travel.

First of all again number one everything and everywhere and every when is here and now all times in other words coexist simultaneously.

So again, let's fine-tune the definition. Are you really traveling when you don't really go anywhere? No. What are you doing? You're changing your point of view. You're changing your perspective vibrationally. Then you can have an experience of another stream of space and or time or time and space.

Then in a sense you could call that euphemistically time travel. But in fact it's actually more real to say that it's traveling through you than you traveling through it because you are the modulator and the frequencies are shifting within you. Therefore time in a sense is traveling through you. You're not traveling through it.


This is a little bit of a linear perspective of time travel in the sense of going back, quote unquote, into your own past, quote unquote.**

**Are you with me? This is what you would call your quote unquote classic science fiction time travel scenario.**

**So, now, did you I'm going to ask you, you personally, the questioner, a question, if I may.**

**Let us say you were going to decide to travel back one day, 24 of your hours in time.**

**Do you remember what you were doing 24 hours ago roughly? Pick something roughly that you did yesterday.**

**All right. Now, can you give us a general idea of what you were doing?**

**Yes. I was cooking preparatory for tonight.**

**Cooking.**

**All right. Were you in your or someone else's kitchen?**

**Yes. Mine.**

**All right. Now, let us say you now decide to go back to that point in time.**

**All right.**

**Yes.**

**All right. Do you remember being in your kitchen?**

**Yes.**

**All right. You remember generally what you were doing?**

**Yes. Yes, I do.**

**Do you remember seeing another version of yourself anywhere in your kitchen at the same time?**

**No. I wish I had.**

**Okay. Do you?**

**No.**

**All right, then. Understand this. You cannot go back to that kitchen because you didn't. Do you understand? You weren't there twice. So, you can't go back there because going back there is not a part of what you already experienced when you were there. If you did go back, you would have already yesterday experienced another you in the kitchen.**

**So, when you do go back, so to speak, into the past, into the kitchen that you were in 24 hours ago, you will not be going to the same kitchen.**

**Exactly. You will be going to the kitchen of another parallel reality. You do you understand? And that you will experience the doubling of herself because that will be part of her history while you already know it wasn't part of yours.**

It isn't that you cannot time travel, but what you're doing when you're time traveling is going into parallel time tracks that may seem to be almost identical to the one you remember being in, but it actually isn't the same one because you already know you weren't there because you didn't meet yourself.

So you know that when you go back into the time in the past, you will be going into a parallel reality and meeting another version of you in another reality altogether. And that will be normal for her reality because then nothing will contradict the idea what you say you've already experienced in your reality 24 hours ago.

Now, here's an added twist just to make things even more complex. You can however identify your consciousness from her point of view. You can in essence experience her parallel reality meeting herself. This is where it gets a bit sticky.

It would seem as if the you you think yourself to be. We're meeting the future you who had come back in time. But mechanically, technically, this is not what's happening. What's happening is the you you are here that's deciding to go back in time that meets up with the parallel reality you will have already also decided to perceive the parallel reality experience through the parallel reality you meeting up with the you that decided to go back in time.

So it will seem as if you are having the experience but you won't be in your time track. You will simply be seeing through the eyes of your parallel reality self and having her experience simultaneously to allow you the experience of what that would be like to have experienced meeting yourself from the future coming back into the past.

**Are there going to be two over there or one over there?**

Well, in fact, there is an infinite number.

But again when we are delineating the various time tracks it will depend upon what arrangement you have made as to how many of yourselves or versions of yourself you will perceive at any one given an access point. Who the experiencer again is all of you. But you will each feel that you are the only experiencer. In other words, every component will feel that it is the only experiencer even though all of the components are experiencing simultaneously. And from the higher point of view, the higher point of view would experience the whole idea at once of all the components experiences. But that's another level.

All right. I'll put it this way. Imagine that you have a twin sister.


Imagine that you have a twin sister.

imagine that your twin sister finds out that you actually are triplets and finds another twin sister, a triplet sister. But you don't know about that yet.

She has now met the third sister. She then tells you about the third sister and recounts her meeting so strongly that you feel like you are there. In fact, you go into it so strongly you actually imagine that you are there. You start to identify with your twin sister so strongly. You actually literally experience all the sensations of what she experienced when she met the third sister. So you really feel like you experienced it too.

Then the third sister tells you what it was like for her to meet your twin and you experience it that fully from her point of view.

Now you have literally three points of view. Your original, your twin sisters, and the newly discovered triplets point of view, all mixing into this one event of meeting each other. Now just take that to the degree to where it doesn't feel like there's any difference from you hearing about the experience or having the experience.

So while on one hand you can actually feel like you had the experience on the other hand mechanically what's actually happened is you have heard about the experience. You know it exists. It's contained within your consciousness somehow and somewhere. And if you let it, it can actually become a true experience for you if you identify with it strongly enough. And that can create a reality for you.

But that's how you need to look at the mechanics of what happened rather than actually thinking that you per se, the you think yourself to be were the sister that met the triplet.

**Does that make sense to you?**

**Yes.**

So again, we have paradox. On one hand, you can have the experience in any way, shape, or form and in every way, shape, or form that would seem to make no difference as to whether it was you or your sister that had the experience. And on the other hand, there is still a differentiation as to exactly what path was followed to bring the information to you.

**Does that make sense?**

**Yes.**

So to wrap it all up simply, can you time travel? Yes and no. However, however, here really is the bottom line so that this entire very complicated story can be simplified and rendered down into a usable piece of information for you. You can have whatever experience you want to have.

Yes, just that you understand that because of the way you have structured your reality, I have told you this story and explain this convoluted mechanism so that there isn't confusion in you. If and when you start having these experiences and you start seeing all sorts of strange contradictory vibrations going along that you don't think you're going crazy. What you're seeing are the currents and the eddies of all the interacting and intersecting infinite probable reality directions of how this experience and this one event is being experienced from all the different points of view and parallel reality time tracks regardless of what you're experiencing from yours.


## Question: Losing Track of Physical Time

**All right. Now, here's something else to understand and this is a little bit of a linear perspective since you anything else.**

**Yes, I have a second question. Do we lose track of our physical time in the way that you probably mean that you can?**

**Yes.**

However, again, more specifically, when you have the experience on your planet of losing track of time, what you're actually doing is not creating it. Do you understand? When you don't experience the passage of time, it's not because really in most situations, though it's possible, yes, but in most situations, it's not because you just weren't paying attention. It's that you're actually not creating as much time as you were before.

When you live in the moment, the moment because there actually is only one. There's only one moment. Everything you experience as a series of different moments is the same moment from a different point of view. There's only one now. Totally one moment.

So when you live more in the moment, whatever that means to you experientially, you actually are creating less differentiation. You are allowing all moments to be the same moment from a different point of view. And when you don't experience the passage of time, you actually don't age.


For whatever that amount of time is that you collapsed, you actually don't age that amount of time. That's why living more in the moment makes you seem ageless and eternal.


## Question: Bringing Things Back

Bashar: The only dumb questions are the ones you don't ask. **You know, dumb as in silent.**

how do we actually bring things back with us?

Ah. we've already said that you're not actually going anywhere. Therefore you're not actually bringing anything back. 

**Everything is already here.**

So the first secret to bringing something back is to understand it's already here. When you start to really begin to immerse yourself in this and learn this as a language and start to break down the barriers of segregation and separation that you have created that makes it seem as if things are actually really somewhere else when they're not.

Then as those things break down, you will start to perceive that everything really is here. And it will simply be a matter of focus and attention and intention as to your ability to realize that in all the ways that you may take that phrase.

you know that all the programs in your TV are all there at the same time, are they not? But you only see one because that's where your channel is tuned. You know they're all there. What do you have to do to see another program? Change the channel. You didn't have to really go anywhere else. You didn't really have to bring the program from anywhere it already wasn't. 

All you had to do was switch frequencies and bingo, as you say, there it is in full living color.

So, it's the same thing with physical reality. Everything is here. 

If you think about it as a holographic matrix of every possible vibration, every possible energy frequency that represents every possible physical manifestation that's applicable in your reality. They're all overlapping like the television air waves. They're all vibrating right here, right now. But you only see or experience as manifested solidly the things that are representative of the frequency channel you happen to be on at any given moment. Change the channel and pop. 

There are other things.

The secret, so to speak, that is no secret at all, of true magic in the sense of making things appear and disappear in front of the crowds is to be able to know that they're already there. To shift to that frequency and to tell empathically, get the crowd to agree to shift to the frequency with you. Then they can see it too. 

That's how things are magically manifested because it's by agreement still. You have to have a shared reality for anyone else to experience what you're experiencing because each of you is your own universe. Each of you is your own reality and you have to experience commonality by agreement telepathically.

So if you can then be focused in the moment enough with yourself to shift that frequency and can learn to give off the frequency of that new reality through unconditional love. Then everyone will pick up on that unconditional love will automatically tune into that frequency and oh lo and behold look what we see appearing before us. Magic. How did that get there? You understand?

And disappearing is the same thing in reverse. You're just shifting it back into a frequency that in a sense is beyond your immediate perception in the consensus agreed upon reality. That's all it is. Hide and seek with yourself from one part of yourself to another. That's all.

So that is the fundamental essential answer to your question of how do you bring things back? You're not bringing them back. They're here.
