The Wedge

Many of you now in this age of transformation as you have called it in

Many of you now in this age of transformation as you have called it in your language are of course perceiving many different kinds of so-called predictions of a variety of probable future realities. And of course once again we remind you briefly that there really is no such thing as a prediction of the future but only a sensing of the energy that exists at the time the prediction is made. And if that energy of course does not change then it will perhaps come to pass. But many times the prediction being made and making individuals aware of where the energy may lie will have its effect and its impact upon itself. And a prediction once made now in the awareness of the collective population can actually by having made itself become aware render itself obsolete and thus can change the prediction even as it is spoken. The idea therefore is to always remember that the future is not fixed. That the choices are always up to you to decide both individually for your own unique lives and collectively altogether what kind of a reality you want to experience. And that when you sense a certain idea may seem to be the representation of the future. Please do take a moment to remember that all you're doing is sensing the energy that exists right then and there as the sensing is made and that it is up to you to determine whether you shall we say prefer that energy to go in that direction to keep moving along that path or whether you would prefer to exercise your free will, your choice and to change it in the direction that is more representative of the kind of reality you say is in alignment with your true self, your nature, your core creativity and who it is you prefer to be. The idea in a sense, therefore, is that as you become more proficient with regard to knowing consciously that you choose your reality and exercising that choice moment to moment, then you will in a sense become quite unpredictable and in that way free yourself from the idea that anything has to go in one particular direction or another. Aside from what might be the most generalized of themes that you have all agreed to play out, there is a lot of leeway, as you say, in exactly how it is you will experience any of the general agreements you share with each other as you create your mass consensus agreed upon reality. So free yourselves up, become unpredictable in your ability to spontaneously act and choose what realities you prefer and to change yourselves as you see fit so that you will become truly dynamic reflections of creation as you were designed by creation to be. We thank you for allowing us to take this opportunity to share this notion, this point of view with each and every one of you and allowing this transmission to take place. And we understand that you have a bit of a difference tonight with your format. And we will thus then go along with you in allowing there to be communication specifically with regard to the individuals who wish to open this dialogue this day of your time. You may proceed as you wish.

Good day to you. Good day. Um there have been a lot of mentions of UFOs and alien life in the last few days on the news. Yes. And I was wondering whether there is any truth to that.

There are always, shall we say, excursions and observations that are being made from a variety of different civilizations in observing the changes going on on your planet. From time to time, of course, individuals will perceive things that are not necessarily what you would call our spacecraft or the spacecraft of other civilizations. They will place upon these viewings their own interpretations of course but yes from time to time an individual may view a spacecraft from another civilization. It is not in that sense uncommon. But the idea also is that for a variety of reasons your people have a great fascination with our civilizations when in fact the real issue at hand is to develop a stronger fascination with your own civilization rather than looking so much to us. The idea is that to turn that view back on yourselves and to use the ideas that you find inspirational in knowing that there is other consciousness, other life to turn that idea back upon yourselves to create yourselves to be what you need to be. But yes, from time to time people do see our crafts and of course from time to time they have what you would call misinterpretations.

So joining you or another alien civilization would not be possible. It is possible but it is not yet the appropriate time for there is much that you have to do on your planet in order to become more cohesive. Understand that civilizations that function holistically that do not have the kind of divisions in their society that you exhibit and of course you are not the only planet that exhibits divisions but many of the civilizations that are observing your planet do not have the kind of divisions you have. These holistic civilizations operate on a very high frequency level of energy. And if your civilization were forced to be exposed to civilizations that operate on a higher frequency level, in a sense, exposure to that high energy would actually in some senses be detrimental to you. For exposure to that high energy would actually force you and your energy to change, force you to look at the things you have hidden within your consciousness, and in that sense can actually create psychotic shock if you're not ready to absorb the things that that energy might force you to look at within your own psyche. So the idea is that yes, you will be ready perhaps, again, remember what we said about predictions, but perhaps by no later than what you would call your year of 2037, your world, as best as we can sense it right now, may become a member of what we call the association of worlds in your immediate localized area of your galaxy. It is possible and you are making many changes that may make it probable but you are not ready yet. No, look at your own world. You can see that you are not ready to join other worlds who operate holistically.

One last question.