---
heading: Part 2 of Mirror of the Mind
title: "DNA"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1997-03-16
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 135
tags: ['dna']
---



## GRAND CANYON AND ABORIGINAL ELDERS

**Participant:** Since the uh subject of the Sphinx came up with with the uh uh all the information that's there. Uh I wondered if there's any kind of a time frame for the area in the Grand Canyon that has some of the same information.

**Bashar:** No comment at this time. there may be more understanding about the timing of that area that will occur in or around your 1999 year.

**Participant:** Okay. After more information from the Sphinx is brought out then.

**Bashar:** I am not making a connection.

**Participant:** Okay. Um, there are a couple Aboriginal ladies that are coming uh in a couple months and I know there's a uh coming where?

**Bashar:** Coming to the Los Angeles area.

**Participant:** All right. Uh and there's this feeling of a passing of the baton.

**Bashar:** Passing of a baton.

**Participant:** Yes. All right. And I'm I they've never traveled outside of Australia, but they really feel imperative to come here.

**Bashar:** Yes. And so and and so um I know there is a telepathic grid and I know that some of the ancient ones have been holding this. U is this part of that information?

**Bashar:** In an overall sense, it is a part of the general awakening and realization of the ability to access more information. Yes. as we are are more able to access information within ourselves, we're able to reach some of the information that they carry.


## DNA AND CONSCIOUSNESS

**Participant:** Um on another note on the DNA, you gave us an assignment quite a while ago.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant:** Um and some of the information I was able to find from zoos and places like that. Yes. that obviously all mammals do have that's one of the functions of a mammal would be to have umbilical cords but they're different than than obviously humans.

**Bashar:** Yes. And yet in our society they always felt like the ree monkey or a certain set certain kind of chimpanzees are really close to humans. And yet the whales also have this kind of a a structure and their energy goes back um in ancient writings.

**Participant:** Nice. Um and so I I wondered how close are we really to the serious energy to the whale energy?

**Bashar:** Closer than you may think.

**Participant:** Does it show up in our DNA?

**Bashar:** Yes. But then everything shows up in our DNA, doesn't it? All along the way, in some manner.

**Participant:** Yes. Though not always as blatant as some.

**Bashar:** But the whale DNA, we that would be a marker that would be able to be found.

**Participant:** Yes. U do we have that technology now?

**Bashar:** Yes. Um though it may be in your terms a little tedious or time-consuming.

**Participant:** Okay. Yeah. It's not probably generally known. We tend to use DNA for court cases and things.

**Bashar:** Yes. And of course do remember DNA is not something that your body contains. It is what you are as a physical being. Consciousness expresses itself first in physical reality as DNA. Then the DNA beings you are physically extend themselves into the idea of the physical vehicle you call a body.

But it isn't that your body has DNA. It's that you as a DNA being express that physicality in the form of a body. Do you understand the difference?

**Participant:** Yes. Is there another strand of DNA that we don't find in the body since the DNA actually is um there is a third strand in a sense though it does not express itself exactly as the other two and of course there are many others on different levels that you would call etheric representations of DNA but not physiologically so.

**Bashar:** Okay. But the third strand is to some degree physiological but does not express itself exactly in the same way. And this is what goes throughout what you would call your immunological system.

**Participant:** All right. Now when the vibration is raised does that that has an effect on cells. Does that have a that must have an effect on the DNA then also again turn it around.

**Bashar:** Okay. When the vibration is raised in the DNA, it has an effect on everything else that extends from it. The vibration is first raised in the DNA because that's what you are as a physical being first. Are you getting this?

**Participant:** Yes. As a physical being, you are not a human. You are not a female. You are a DNA strand. That's what physical consciousness is. That's how it expresses itself in a physical modality. So all of you are strands of DNA. That's what you are as physical beings. You understand this?

**Bashar:** Yes. Then each strand expresses itself in a unique format that allows it to wrap itself in a kind of vehicle that will allow it to function in a more expanded version of the concept of physical reality. But what you actually are first is the strand itself of DNA as a physical being. That's what you are. That's consciousness expressing itself as a physical being. DNA strands.

**Participant:** Okay. than say some of us that have been coming here many times through the ages.

**Bashar:** Yes. Um than our consciousness that expresses itself as a physical being. Um how does that translate into the DNA?

**Participant:** It is encoded and it is recognized by your people as quote unquote racial memory or what you would call inherited traits. But this is simply encoded within the DNA beings that you are to represent the level of experience you quote unquote have had in physical reality.

While it doesn't necessarily exist so strongly anymore in what you call your present day and age, it may still be possible to actually find individuals who do not necessarily have many experiences in physical reality earth plane and thus their DNA will actually in a sense be simpler. You follow?

**Bashar:** Yes. So they so that any experiences off planet wouldn't necessarily be picked up in the DNA.

**Participant:** It will if you know how to look, okay? But not in the way that you're looking now. It is expressed in a different way. Expressed in certain kinds of relationships, expressed even in certain angles of molecular adhesion and the way that it formulates or formats itself when it expands. There are a variety of ways to understand this if you know how to look. 

## QUESTION 6: PEARLS, INSECT BITES, AND PANDORA'S BOX

**Participant:** Great. Um, I had uh an interesting well just a little part of a dream where there were gray pearls that gray pearls gray pearls and they were pearls of wisdom.

**Bashar:** All right. Connected to it.

**Participant:** Nice. And uh interacting with these pearls and that in the dream. That's that's about all I remember.

**Bashar:** Nice. Uh with it.

**Participant:** Then um uh probably about seven or so days ago. I didn't notice it until about Saturday or Sunday that I had this what I thought was a bite on my arm. might still be, but uh um it was itching and I was uh scratching it and everything and and then about Tuesday uh it was sort of big and red and everything and so we took a look at it and it's like two two marks.

We thought maybe it was a spider bite or something before that, but when we looked at it, uh, it doesn't look like that could be any kind of a spider. And it's two definite marks. And it sounds like and looks like the marks that Stephanie had, only she had four.

**Bashar:** Nope. No insect bite.

**Participant:** It is an insect bite.

**Bashar:** Oh, okay. Good. All right.

**Participant:** Okay. Good. All right. Yeah. Uh, um, the great pearls.

**Bashar:** Yes. um of wisdom.

**Participant:** Yes. Are you going to wax poetic about them now? Are you going to enlighten us as to their reflection for you?

**Bashar:** I felt that um maybe an interaction with uh the children to some degree.

**Participant:** That is one aspect of it. Yes. Very good. Okay. But there are other things imparting wisdom to me.

**Bashar:** Yes. And also simply for yourself reflections of your own holographic matrix and your ability to tap into different points of view from where you are as the pearl as the perfect surface reflects everything in reality in that surface and all you have to do is go to that one pearl to see everything.

**Participant:** Okay. So, it's about my uh also tapping into my wanting um to stop I've stopped limiting myself to having bits and pieces of information.

**Bashar:** Yes. And having uh a lot more information.

**Participant:** Yes. Yeah. It is a symbol of holographic integration.

**Bashar:** Yes. Yes. Good. Because that's what I've been uh about in the last week or so. All right. Congratulations.

**Participant:** All right. Thank you for that. Then um you had talked about uh that I should talk with you about Paradox and Pandora's box.

**Bashar:** Well, Pandora's box when I did a little bit of research was that um she was given this box and was told not to open it and that it contained all the evils and and everything of mankind. All right.

God, her curiosity got the best of her and she opened it up. Now, one um idea was that there were all the evils, but the one thing was hope that was in the the box, guys. And she opened it up and therefore the story goes that mankind has all of this going on. I understand the legend. Yes. How does it read to you?

**Participant:** However, for the paradox, how it reads to me, what I connected with it. Yes. Was that I have a box also uh from my dream and and my Is it Pandora's box?

**Bashar:** It is. No, it's the opposite. It is the what?

**Participant:** Um it has I can go into it. We can go into it and it has everything. um of an opposite scope just everything that it contains at all uh of everything that you want you can imagine you can get all that is yes all right yeah positive and negative yes and when you open the lid what do you get well the when you open the lid what do you get get all other realities when you open the lid what do you yet. When you open the lid, what do you get? All of me.

**Bashar:** I haven't opened the lid yet. When you open the lid, what do you get? Not getting it. Remember the pearl. use it in this context.

**Participant:** All of the wisdom that I'm whatever is reflective of your vibration and Pandora's vibration was one of fear.

**Bashar:** Ah, when you open the lid, what do you get? All of the love. Thank you. Yes. Okay. Pandora's box or Paradox? Which do you prefer?

**Participant:** Yes, Paradox, of course. Thank you. Yes. Does that help you?

**Bashar:** Yes, that that does illuminate it more. All right. And and that is all I have. Thank you.

**Participant:** Thank you. Good day.

---

## QUESTION 7: LAS VEGAS GREY AND HYBRIDS

**Participant:** Good day, Bashar. How are you?

**Bashar:** Perfect. And you?

**Participant:** Excellent. All right. Um, I wanted to ask you two things. One, the last one, uh, is about the ET, the Las Vegas ET, and Las Vegas ET, the gray. I have questions on that, but you are talking about the interaction with the gray.

**Bashar:** Oh, yes. Do you want me to do that now and then?

**Participant:** It is up to you. We are simply clarifying what you Okay, let me do that now. But the other one is All right, I will let you. More important.

**Bashar:** Oh, I see. All right. More important.

**Participant:** What vibrational frequency was the gray from Las Vegas at?

**Bashar:** This would not in a sense make sense to you because they do not translate as individual frequencies per se. Do you understand? They are a hive mentality.

**Participant:** What is the hive mentality vibrating at? Can you can you tell us that?

**Bashar:** Yes. One moment. approximately 257,000 cycles per second.

**Participant:** Okay. The other uh question on that is um they said that you said that they were operational that seven of their chakras were unused and I was wondering if this was like a degeneration or will they be using them at all and they will as the hybrids and all of ours are operational?

**Bashar:** Well, more or less. Some of them need some tuning but more or less. Yes. And that would be done through those maybe some of those exercises from the Las Vegas that can be of assistance along with anything else that your imagination calls forth into your reality as being capable of helping you in that area.

**Participant:** Yes. And uh with those exercises, the Las Vegas exercises, I keep falling asleep and I know you said on the tape that I'm still getting it, but I really would like to be awake for it. Am I still getting it even though it's from the tape and I'm not in there?

**Bashar:** In a way you are. Yes. Although I will say that there is another way you could get it if you would allow yourself to be awake. Okay, I'll do that.

The question I have is one moment. Okay, the idea of expressing the collective as 257,000 cycles per second still has nothing at all to do in this particular case with a representation per se of integration in the way you understand it. The idea is a slightly different expression of that vibratory frequency than what 257,000 cycles per second would mean to a human.

Can you liken it to ours? In other words, the idea of a human operating at 257,000 cycles per second would be considered what you would call an ascended master while still in physical reality. The collective gray society operating at that frequency functions on that level in certain ways. But this does not mean that each individual component expresses that vibration exactly because they're different levels.

**Participant:** The one that the person was communicating with in Las Vegas, is there any way you can tell us what his that level of grace?

**Bashar:** It cannot be broken out but simply understand that they dive into or partake of the collective but it is not expressed in the same way that you would be capable of expressing it being that you also allow for emotionality which they no longer can express. It is expressed as a kind of intensity of energy and focus of intention and agenda. But it is not expressed in the same way that you would as the balance of the idea of mentality and emotionality or spirituality.

**Participant:** Well, when they interact with us, does it up their vibration in some senses?

**Bashar:** Yes. And in some senses, it also ups yours. But again, the two frequencies are not exactly compatible, nor are they representative of exactly the same universal domain. So in most areas of the frequency it is nontranslatable in either direction. Only a small fragment of that vibration is translatable in either direction.

**Participant:** Is that some of the problems with with making the hybrids?

**Bashar:** Yes, that has been one of the big ones. One of the biggest challenges is to find a way to allow the creation of the hybrids to happen within the particular frequency domain that represents the frequency domain wherein those two universal realities do come together in a balanced way.

**Participant:** And how are they doing on that?

**Bashar:** Fine, thank you.

**Participant:** Oh yes, you look wonderful.

**Bashar:** Thank you for that.

---

## QUESTION 8: NEIGHBOR'S HUSBAND'S DEATH

**Participant:** Um, I wanted to ask you, my neighbor across the street, um, her husband Is this your more important point?

**Bashar:** Yes, I think.

**Participant:** Yes. All right. I mean, it's not as whimsical.

**Bashar:** Whimsical. Um, my neighbor across the street, her husband was killed in a motorcycle accident yesterday morning. All right. and um she was going to come tonight but her family's here and I wanted to ask some questions if I could to see if we could maybe now I have felt like I've contacted Richard and I my first question would be how accurate do you think I was on what I told her what did you say?

**Participant:** I said um that he came here he's going to be helping her she's a therapist and she's getting into more spiritual things that he was going to he left early for one reason that he would be helping her and that He married, right?

**Bashar:** Yes, to some degree this is accurate, though it may not necessarily occur in the way that you or she would think. It may be a little bit more randomly creative than rigidly structured or disciplined. Does this make sense to you?

**Participant:** Um, could you elaborate on that and maybe say how she could look at the way he chose to die?

**Bashar:** Yes. What was he doing?

**Participant:** He was riding a bike, motorcycle, which to him was a feeling of, I guess, freedom and excitement.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Therefore, all the lessons he will be capable of sharing with her may come in a very open-ended, very freeing, very loosely structured format.

**Participant:** How can she partake of them at best? I mean, what what's the by going along for the ride?

**Bashar:** Okay. Now I if I can give you his full name and his age and everything. Can you can you see how he Okay. And also why he chose to go so early and and she feels somewhat responsible.

**Participant:** And responsible how well she felt all of your deaths are chosen in that sense. How was she responsible?

**Bashar:** I told Well, she felt because she nagged him a lot. I told her what I felt. I told her what I nagged him to death. Well, she said is that what she is saying? That's what she felt.

**Participant:** All right. Well, then that can be her first lesson to let go of and that would be a direct message from him.

**Bashar:** I told her also that people what I noticed from this whole thing is that people are individuals and they come here and even they are in a marriage or in relationship they each have their own choice of their life and even if they may feel nagged and like the v victim and maybe they might think of suicide or something because they are victimized or they can't take it anymore at the last moment before they make the decision it is theirs to do for their life.

**Participant:** Yes. And um I told her he said about camping to um to think about the times when they went camping and to go to spots that they went hiking and were in nature because that is a more free form expression.

**Bashar:** So that is accurate. Anything that will allow her to get into the energy of what would be more spontaneous, more expansive, more exploratory, more creative in that way will be an accurate energy to stay in to know that communication is being had between them.

**Participant:** Can can you tell me? So the first thing is to give up the guilt about the idea that she thinks she nagged him to death. Do you understand?

**Bashar:** Yes. Give it up. Give it up. Give it up. Shift gears.

**Participant:** Can uh I uh you tell why can I give you his name and and age? Would that help you tell? Okay. Why he uh chose at such a young age to leave?

**Bashar:** And um it is simply a matter of timing. Can can you be more specific on that?

**Participant:** Give us the full resonance. Okay. His name is Richard Henrik Lumley. He was born on February 2nd, 1960. Makes him 37. and he lives in Woodland Hills on Saltio, very very close to where uh Daryl used to live. Once more, the full resonant name Richard Henrik Lumley and her name um Vlatka. I don't know her middle name, Lumley.

**Bashar:** One moment. One moment. One moment. One moment. One moment. One moment. One moment. One moment.

What would you estimate Vlatka's personality structure to be like? What kind of a person do you deem her to be?

**Participant:** I think she's a little rigid in the way she thinks, but All right, then this may be why there is a reinforcement for her to lighten up. One moment. One moment. One moment. We would not normally recommend this, but since it isn't coming from us, we will pass the message along.

Now, again, this is not meant in any way, shape, or form to be taken to extremes. You follow? Yes. However, the recommendation is she needs a couple of shots of vodka.

**Participant:** Ah, so then maybe she will be open enough to listen and feel the communication and the love that is there and let go of the guilt.

**Bashar:** She may for a while cry in her vodka, but that is all right because she'll let it out and the tears will be tears that will lighten her and then perhaps she can breathe more freely, more easily and then really do the work she needs to do in the way she needs to do it.

**Participant:** I will help her, he says.

**Bashar:** Okay, but only when she is capable of relaxing a bit, otherwise she's on her own. because she will tighten the communication channel and close the door with her grief, her guilt, her fear, her self-incrimination. Enough of that. Let it go. Let it go. Let it go.

One moment. One moment. One moment. In times past in what would be called the old country. They knew each other well then too. Life was basic. Life was simple. For her a little bit too basic. She strives to make sure she will not be poor. But she's trying too hard. And so she is creating herself to be poor in spirit.

She needs to lighten up and not worry so much in this life about scratching the ground to grow potatoes. Take the potatoes, turn them into vodka. Have a little party in celebration and remembrance of him. A toast to the spirit realm. A toast to the spirit of life. A toast to freedom to be who you are. A toast to all that is. And a toast to herself for being strong enough to let go. Relay that message precisely.

**Participant:** I will I'm going to give her a copy of the tape. All right. Can you tell me why Richard chose to go so early?

**Bashar:** I just did. if you were paying attention to help her from the other side.

**Participant:** Thank you. That's what I told her. But I told you why precisely and how she can avail herself of his help best. So basically he left to help her then.

**Bashar:** Of course, but also it is his own journey not just for her but out of love and out of the timing that this is what she needs to be who she needs to be.

**Participant:** Can you tell me what he's doing over there now? Is it right now talking to us? Oh, can you say hi and tell him that that Don't you think that's been received?

**Bashar:** Well, she said she loves him and she He knows that, but she needs to love herself a little bit more. She needs to understand why he loved her so much and she needs to give herself some of that, too. All right, so a toast. Don't overdo it. A toast is called for and it will be simultaneously done on the other side with what on that side might pass for the equivalent of vodka. You follow?

**Participant:** Yes. And he's as you say spirits. Uhhuh. And he's happy over there.

**Bashar:** He's happy. Do you have to ask? Well, I'm Can you not pick that up in what we are transmitting to you?

**Participant:** Yeah, I'm sorry. I just Yeah. No, I'm not. You don't have to be sorry. Thank you.

**Bashar:** Okay. And my last little teeny thing is I have an interview. I'll slip it in. I'll slip it in. I have an interview for for a Mercedes commercial tomorrow.

**Participant:** All right. Have a good time. And I wanted to know, is that true about the sex thing in there? Maybe that'll help me with you. Um, you know what was it to be? Why not? No further comment is needed. Okay. Thank you so much.

**Bashar:** Good day.

---

## QUESTION 9: FOURTH DENSITY AND RESPONSIBILITY

**Participant:** Hi. Um, first I wanted to thank you for being so available to me this morning. It really helped.

**Bashar:** Our energy as always is available to all who wish to tap into the frequency.

**Participant:** Yeah. in the I meant it al meant it in the sense that sometimes as you have said you wean people when they're relying I I don't know I just felt like it was special so you have made it so for yourself in that way it is special to us we thank you for your co-creation.

**Bashar:** Yeah I'm just acknowledging you're part of the understanding okay I mean I know it was me but also understood okay.

**Participant:** Um not quite sure how to phrase this so bear with me it kind bleeds into what Jill was saying.

**Bashar:** Nice. I had a question about I think it was on your workshop tape you spoke of rules in physiological reality and personally I've been wondering and also experiencing there's a real different rule in fourth density.

One of that being that it used to be where we used to to be responsible meant you had to know every step of the way and to visualize and to plan everything out and to create your reality. Understood. And I'm all I'm getting a lot of for quite a while a lot of the information you gave Jill which is to just throw all caution to the wind and No, no, no, not all caution to the wind.

**Participant:** Well, that's what the way but be spontaneous.

**Bashar:** Yes. Yes. Well, that's not sensibility. No. No. But to to be aware and to act accordingly.

**Participant:** Yes. Well, in I don't know. Let's see. In making friends of the unknown. Yes. It seems to my personal experience is that part of that I need to be responsible in understanding and creating my belief. At the same time the belief of totally trusting the universe and love and the unknown in a sense you have to relinquish your control on that.

**Bashar:** Yes, it is a paradox. Absolutely. So so is that now more of the real the way we operate in the high in fourth density?

**Participant:** Yes. And in in a sense creating every little specific thing like watching your back and every move or watching every reflection was more of a third density way.

**Bashar:** Yes. Okay. Um because you are treating yourself more as a complete kit, knowing then that the things that will be the resultant manifestation of your state of being will fit, will belong, will work together holistically. Mhm. Instead of having to always second guess whether you have done something wrong that will come back to pounce on you.

**Participant:** Right. Yes. Yeah. That's I mean I really had a that came back a lot to me this this week was very interesting. very hard at certain times and of course very ecstatic ecstatic at others but to really give up this idea of always having to watch my back and what what happened was I was in not built that way anyway I know I know and that was the point it was like well oh this is my question I was doing very good until two days before my rent was due and not even having any money for food never mind rent and the other bills that were on the table nice and and what happened then what happened was and this was one of my questions about fourth density and I I want to ask you if I handled it properly.

Um physiologically my body went into fear even though my mind and my emotions weren't because I've been in this place so many times before but it was like my imprint clicked in understood. So I thought wow well as a fourth density being I mean in third density your imprint does override in many cases it will right in fourth density is the rule that You can create whether your imprint overrides or not.

**Bashar:** Yes. Good. So, I did that. Good. Yes. Is there anything else you want to give on some of these new rules for fourth density?

**Participant:** Nope. Okay. Can I um I had a wonderful I'm not going to go into it because it's kind of personal, but meditation with the goddess nice this week. Nice. And what I have always experienced when that happens um not let me rephrase that. Oh, all right. Um what I have experienced people's objection to the goddess energy here. Yes. On humans, yes, is the rage of the goddess.

Um, and her rage went through me this week, which is not which is not something I experience a lot, but it is something I've experienced enough to know that it's something she brings in the sense of speak in the sense of being very clear on what is not her. Oh, all right. In a sense, not only claiming what is you, but being very clear, equally as clear as what is not you. All right. That does not necessarily have to translate as rage.

**Participant:** Yeah. Well, that's the the that's the the only words I could put to it because it was in a sense anger that most people hear. Yes. Like I'm more I'm much more comfortable with my anger, but I'm still not comfortable with other people's reactions to it. Oh, all right. So, I'm obviously there's something more for me there to understand. Yes. Can you help me there?

**Bashar:** Well, I just have in a manner of speaking understand that that alignment of pure recognition of what is and is not your truth only manifests as rage and anger when there are still definitions through which that energy is flowing that are tantamount or connected to old third density definitions of being invalidated.

**Participant:** When I let that move through me, Yes. Let's say the emotion of anger. Yes. When I let it move through me, I got much clearer though. Yes. So that is the correct way to approach it.

**Bashar:** We are simply saying that the anger does not come from the recognition of the goddess. It comes from the intersection of the recognition of the goddess with old belief systems that may not be in alignment with the purity of that recognition because because her recognition is so pure.

**Participant:** Right. Um I also had a conversation with Archangel Lucifer. All right. And I had asked was it fun? Yeah. Well, you know, I love him so much. Sometimes he's like No, he's not with me yet. At least I think it's because I love him so much. He kind of then only that aspect can be presented to you. Yes. And in some ways I think the other beings are a little more tricky. Um the other aspects the other aspects um you know sometimes you I'm a little tired of hearing about all the loveydovey stuff and loveydovey all you know what I'm saying like I appreciate your dis your what other people would call non loveydovey yeah non- loveydvey but you're straight detached what we were talking about earlier about the sense that individuals may have that we seem uncompassionate but in fact it is exactly the opposite right I mean I appreciate ate both. Like sometimes your stuff's a little too rough and I need a Oh, all right. a little more sugar with it.

But um what Lucifer did say to me when I asked him, "What am I missing here?" Yes. He said was very similar to what I said a few minutes ago is that you have to equally claim everything you are not. As you claim everything you are, of course, you have to equally state.

**Bashar:** Is that Yes. Exactly. So cool. As we have said, as you grow in awareness, you become even more aware of the negative and the positive equally. And you must accept that all of that is a part of who you are in order to be capable of being free to choose what you prefer to manifest. So if you don't own everything, then it is not possible for you to choose freely what you prefer to manifest.

**Participant:** So yes, you know, I guess I get a little confused in the sense of saying this is not my vibration. How I'm owning that that is me you know in the logic of that the idea is to understand that you are representative of the one and within the one there is everything and in that sense collectively all vibrations are your own.

**Bashar:** But when you render it into a specific frequency of physiological personality experience, then you are drawing from the whole that you have claimed as your own and manifesting that which is the particular frequency of the experience you want at that time, so to speak, loosely put. Thank you. Does that help you?

**Participant:** Yes. Thank you. Thank you.

---

## QUESTION 10: DNA, PATTERNS, AND CODED INFORMATION

**Participant:** Male venue then you you are number two all right number one good day thank you for being here again tonight I was very fascinated as you were talking about the DNA and I had never heard it presented that way I didn't that's a really great viewpoint oh all right and I've been playing with the perspective that it's like all of existence is simply a play of pattern holders everything is is a pattern being magically held in its own patterns in its own ways for its own length of time.

**Bashar:** Yes. Exactly. So, and our difficulty is that we fail to see that and so we we're not accepting and recognizing how perfect they are. We keep trying to make them into patterns that they're not. Yes. Instead of seeing what they are. Yes. Uh so the DNA getting to the DNA though. Yes. That we are the DNA. Can I is it true then that um as I change physically, mentally, spiritually that my DNA is changing right along with me that's fluctuating in and out aspects of it are.

**Participant:** Yes. Certain aspects of the overall frequency, certain variables within the overall signature vibration are shifting. Yes. So if if somebody took it's like reading tree rings. somebody looked at at at the DNA as a baby and and could could sply it all out and then the same thing any moment in time through its life or at the end of its life. Yes. They would never compare identically. No. So they do vary and that's literally how we Yes. It's it's an interactive thing.

**Bashar:** That initial vibrational shift in the DNA that is representative of a vibrational shift on an energy level then expands out or ripples out through the entire cellular extension of the DNA that you call the body. Yes.

**Participant:** And as we go through we choose to create some of these experiences especially such as fear and anger which really have to flush this body with tremendous waves of energy and obviously the DNA. Yes. I mean to me that's got to be really high voltage stuff even though we just experienced it as a small wave of emotion. Yes. To on the molecular level or at the DNA level that's got to be a huge uh wafting of energy through those Yes. that state and does that and as somebody suggested that's another way that we use to reset our DNA.

**Bashar:** It can be. Yes. Somewhat of a jackhammer. It can create a feedback loop mechanism in that way. Yes. And that is to some degree what you do to create experiential reality. Yes.

**Participant:** And and I guess as I look at and it's very fascinating like you have said as I look at this planet evolve and I realize what tremendously varied u frequencies everybody is on. I mean some people are totally focusing on the on the dark and the negative real strong fearful vibrations and others are so high that it really amazes me.

**Bashar:** That's what makes your planet so interesting.

**Participant:** Yeah it is. It is pretty cool. and hot.

**Bashar:** And hot. Yeah. Now, the the when we choose to create, you know, to watch to go to the horror movies and to watch with horror at the news and go in the the roller coaster ride horizon and that find ways to really charge our DNA as opposed to sitting in meditation on a hillside, for example.

**Participant:** No, no, no. Each can charge to the same degree, but simply differently. Oh, okay. That that helps to explain it then. So it's not when when we choose to meditate and and choose that is like saying that the south pole of a magnet is inherently stronger than the north pole. It's just different. Okay. It's just different. But the yes, there's not more of a charge. There's just a different spin on how the charge takes effect and on how the charge is experienced and on how thus then the charge can be expressed.

Because really love is the containment of all frequencies. Yes. And it's just um and the expression thereof. Or the expression thereof. Yes. Okay. And and then our healing for example, if we are if we have genetic weaknesses or they keep lately they're they're getting so not not that we're adept at it, but they're getting better and better and they're finding that that are they're saying they link even the criminal behaviors etc.

So, so to speak, I do see where we are cuz like you said, should not be taken as the removal of responsibility from the individual, right? Because it is patterned into the idea of the DNA for a purpose and a reason. And just as that helps helps to keep the the status quo, the patterns in a certain way, we always have the ability to choose to to maintain it or to change it. Yes.

And as we to me, I see it as kind of like a flywheel. uh that flywheel helps maintain the momentum of an engine. Yes. No matter what speed you take it to. And it's the same way the DNA the pattern that's there does the same thing. Yes. And at the same time it can still change vectors.

**Bashar:** Okay. And from a from a higher point of view it's like another thing I'm seeing is that everything seems to be nothing. All of existence is basically not only a pattern holder, it's also encoded information. Everything is a bit of encoded information. Whether it's a thought which is basically encoded information that is one way to express DNA is encoded information. That is one way to express it.

It is all various states of being aware of yourself from different perspectives and that translates into information and so the whole of so that's basically what is is our description of God being yes uh the omniscient and and containing the totality of all information. Yes. The different perspectives of interaction with the self through self-awareness generates different vibrational patterns of self-awareness that you call information.

**Participant:** Oh, could you go see that again, please?

**Bashar:** The all that is interacting with itself in all the ways that it can. That self-interactive self-awareness, all the different states of self-interactive self-awareness are what you refer to as informational patterns.

**Participant:** Okay. And the the last thing is that you as I watch and see I think I read a quote the other day that said something about um there's nothing more terrifying than a human being who's convinced he's absolutely right.

**Bashar:** You're right about that. Yeah. Well, and to me just to play along. To me, the cool part about that though is that I mean it's showing me even if I look at my own anger or whatever, it's it's what it shows me is that in a way that to me is the love that's literally making existence move. I mean, it's it's our love for our ideas that that we think that they're right and we love them and we want to bring them into reality and somebody else of course always be expressed in positive and/or negative integrity, right? But the passion for the belief is what allows you to have the experience. Right.

And it seems like that's that's the whole play on this planet and maybe in the universe is everybody's passion for their ideas. Yes. Uh regardless of of what what they bring about. Yes. We we literally fall in love with our ideas. And we really want to experience because in that sense it is again the unconditional unconditional love of all that is experiencing itself in all the ways it possibly can.

**Participant:** Great. Thank you. Thank you. Number two.

---

## QUESTION 11: HYBRIDS AND INTERDIMENSIONALITY

**Participant:** Hello, Bashar. Tell you, good day. Um, I heard a a tape of a private that you did with my friend David, and you said something very intriguing, something that you said you might share with me when we met again, face to face, so to speak. Um, and you said that you might reveal some information about a a special aspect of the hybrids. um hybrid creation involving interdimensionality that maybe we hadn't heard of before.

**Bashar:** Yes. Do you feel like sharing that with me? I'm so so anxious to hear what you might have to say. One moment. We will see what is allowed within the group structure. For in the most part, this would be mostly aimed at you personally. One moment. moment. One moment. All right. We need to open a few doors to see what is acceptable first of all. Okay.

When you heard this information, what vibrational feelings and images came up for you?

**Participant:** Um I had the sense that um the hybrid experiment, whatever you want to call it, was much grander and bigger than any of us could imagine.

**Bashar:** All right. Number one, correct. Did you get any particular images?

**Participant:** Well, to tell you the truth, I was I for some reason I I had the sense that the hybridization process did not involve only the grays, that there might be uh other species that we're just not aware of to some degree.

**Bashar:** Number two, correct. Anything else that you gleaned upon hearing that information? Um, in what other way may it have triggered you?

**Participant:** Uh, I guess maybe I'd still felt a little nervous about meeting them face to face in third. Why? Density reality. Why? Because I really chickenen about being a parent of any kind, you know. Chicken. Yeah. Well, are you laying an egg? Sounds like I've laid a few. What do you imagine will hatch out of them? Well, I guess it's it's that old responsibility thing cuz I really hate the old responsibility.

**Bashar:** You hate responsibility? Yes. You mean in the old definition? Yes. In the old definition. But don't you have a fourth density definition for responsibility? Oh, that's true. The ability to respond. That's true. Well, that's true. I'm just dragging some old stuff with me. Well, why? What use is it to you? Why do you hold on to the handles of that old baggage?

**Participant:** I guess because it was such a um concerted um decision on my part to not be concerned in that way with any other entity, you know, to be so connected as to have an entity dependent or reliant on me in any way. Sounds selfish, huh?

**Bashar:** It is not the idea of whether it is selfish or not, but the idea that you don't think the synchronicity in your life will work out. Yeah, I'm not trying in a way that would be beneficial to all who would spontaneously need to be in your life. Yeah, I I definitely have to make peace with that. And it is more than making peace with it. It is changing your definition of it.

**Participant:** I'm working on it. Oh, with what tools? Hacksaw. No. Hammer, chisel, dynamite. Just trying to embrace and know that um everything What is it that prevents you from knowing and believing that everything works? What do you fear that allows you to buy into the idea that what is truly representative of your truth somehow would not fit in your life, would not work in your life, would impede you, would restrict you, would confine you. Where did you get such a definition that what is you doesn't work with you?

**Bashar:** I guess old values that I bought. All right. Well, you want to sell them? I do. You will make a profit. I'm sure I will. Then when will you let them go? I guess there's only now. You guess or you experience that there is only now. For guessing is not experiencing except the experience of guessing.

It is if you wish time for you to have a belief system garage sale. So, here is your homework. And anyone else who wants to play along certainly can do this. And I mean, do this. Have all the beliefs you no longer need. Write them out on cards or what have you and lay them out on tables as if they are for sale. Then sell them off. Go through the motion. Sell them off. Determine what you will get for each one. Be it the idea of a dime, a quarter, a dollar, it doesn't matter. Sell them off.

Let the old you buy them from the new you. So, put a pot of money off to the side, pennies if you wish, and go through the motions of the old you coming along this old belief system garage sale and being very excited about buying all these old beliefs because they fit the old you so perfectly.

The old you says, "Oh, this is exactly what I needed to furnish my old living situation. I'll buy this one. Oh, and look at that. I'll buy that one, too. And lol over there. I can't believe you have so many ideas and beliefs that work so well for me. I'll buy all of them."

Or treat it as different aspects of your old self, different aspects of your personality that are representative of old beliefs. Each one coming to buy the belief that works best for him or her, and have them put the penny in the new pot from the old pot to the new pot of the new self. Sell off all the old beliefs.

You follow? Go through the action, go through the motion, and you will find it actually can be very constructive for you, very freeing, very releasing. Then you can take all those pennies or whatever they are and go buy your new self a treat. Okay. On a job well done, a garage sale that is successful. Is there anything else you'd like to share about that particular Not until you've done this.

**Participant:** Okay. Um, I have a couple other questions because you may be surprised that a few of the people in your imagination who will show up may be there not to buy but to browse just long enough to let you see them and then be on their way. Mhm. And you will take notice and you will understand that they are in some ways part of your new self, but you will not really meet them nor really have a formal introduction till you sell all of these other things and they have simply stopped by to see how far along you have progressed in your garage sale. They will know when to come back. You follow?

**Participant:** Yes, I do. then you will have more information about what we are talking about and it will be possible for us to talk to you in more detail about it. All right. Okay. That's great.

---

## QUESTION 12: CONSPIRACY THEORIES AND ASTEROIDS

**Participant:** Um well uh interestingly that brings up another belief system that I have been struggling with struggling. Well pondering considering Yes. Yes. Yes. If you are struggling be honest. That's all right.

Well I'm not sure. I guess maybe it could be um interpreted that way, but I'm probably going to end up doing it anyway. I I'm getting really close to putting my uh music out and there's a new song that I wrote um recently. I've been for some reason very fascinated and intrigued by some of the conspiracy theories that I've um really what a surprise. Um and I don't know if it's my Jon of Arc thing or my warrior thing, but doesn't matter.

I feel like on one on one end that I want to express exposing some of it and then on on the sort of spiritual side of me I think you want to be able to also let it go and not have it in any way, shape or form rigidize you or manifest in my reality for for considering it.

**Bashar:** Well then don't bring fear into it and it won't remember the library analogy. Every idea in your imagination is a book in the library. The only one that manifests is the one you intentionally check out. All right. You can read them all day long. They will not go home with you unless you check them out.

**Participant:** Well, and I guess I had a a bit of a question about even putting this one song out because it's, you know, rather controversial, but if you do it in a way that brings the subject up and then perhaps brings some light to how such a fear can be let go, it can be of service.

**Bashar:** Well, that's what I was thinking, too. Well, then. All right, cool. I feel good about it now. Thank you. Um, the uh asteroid. Don't forget my cut. Your cut? No way. Are you kidding? Um, the uh How could I, darling? The um asteroid. Just kidding. The uh I already have my cut. I know. And I I would like you to release it uh on your dimension too. You have full distribution on the CD. It is already completely and totally distributed. Oo, I like that. Thank you. Well, it's my dream and it's it's in sight and I'm very excited.

Um Aroid. Yeah, the asteroid. Which at? Well, supposedly there's one on its way here again. again those pesky asteroids. Now, is there an asteroid belt and that the asteroids are in? Could that possibly be There are a few asteroid belts in your solar system. Yes. Okay. Now, is are any of them or is one of them uh the remnants of a planet that was within our solar system that was destroyed?

**Bashar:** Yes. Was was that the one that you call beyond your Martian planet? Yes. Between Mars and Jupiter? Yes. What was it called? Maldc. Mald. But it also called many other things.

**Participant:** Now, is it possible that some of us were were on that planet? Is that why we feel mis so misplaced here sometimes?

**Bashar:** Well, not really, but it is part and parcel of some of the vibrational cycles that you are still dealing with, especially from ancient Orion times from, again, do not always take me absolutely linearly, but this has some credence. incarnationally Orion to Maldic to Mars to Earth.

Now the Orions were are are depicted sort of as a warrior species in a way or again in the ancient times although they all blight that is more manifest in balance now but many of the old ideas are still being played out on Earth especially after the idea of destructions of Maldec, destructions of Mars, destructions of Atlantis and now here you are at the culmination point of the possible destruction of art. Yes. Tearing on the brink once again. But which way will you go?

**Participant:** Wow. Um I had a sneaky suspicion now because I I I really feel that most of us are somewhat out of a natural balance that really is so inherent in us really. And I and I used to think it was I I used to think it was because we had been tampered with so many times from extraterrestrial species. But it could be all of the above.

**Bashar:** It has nothing really to do with tampering in that sense. You know what I'm saying? Yes. But you know what I'm saying? Yes. Oh, absolutely. So, do not give in to the conspiratorial point of view. Which brings me to my next question. Remember everything that we've already discussed about the alteration of the vibration of the DNA. Yeah. Well, thank you. Yeah. And your next question.

**Participant:** Well, um it was the um the the 39 people that supposedly committed suicide. Well, supposedly yes, they did. Um I don't know. There is no conspiracy involved. There isn't. No. Oh, interesting. They made a conscious choice. They may have in many ways been misunderstanding the consequences of some of their belief systems and so forth, but they made a choice. There is no conspiracy involved. Okay.

Are you familiar at all with the Iron Mountain report defined? Um, which was in the 60s and it was a report that was found that um supposedly a group of um I don't even want to call them government because it was sort of global elite got together and planned ways of like cleansing the planet.

**Bashar:** Um uh there are snatches of people on your planet that have discussed such things and we are not saying that there are not snatches of individuals who have not progressed to some degree in what you would call mind control experiments and so forth and any number of other ideas and plots that again of course fundamentally could be defined as conspiratorial but that has nothing at all to do with your ability to live the reality that you prefer.

And in this particular case, it doesn't necessarily have as much to do with certain things as many people on your planet might think. And I remind you, the first key that allows the idea of conspiratorial thoughts to work is the idea that there is a conspiracy. Well, that is the first thing that allows individuals to buy into the reality enough to allow themselves to be impacted by any such individuals as may actually exist. Right?

But the thing is I've I feel that many of us have been affected in so many ways by the something like the media that is so but you choose to be affected. It can give you an opportunity when you look at it in a positive way to get in touch with areas that you allow yourself to be affected on and to decide whether or not you want to be impacted in those areas. So, you can still use it in a very free will sort of way unless you feel like buying into the scary story for some reason.

**Participant:** I don't think it's necessarily so much that I want to buy into it. I just want to beware generalized. Yeah. I just want to be aware of it and if there's anything I can do, you know, like be yourself, even if it's just write a song to be yourself is the only thing you can do. Everything that you then do will stem from being yourself and will create the vibration that is representative of the self you are being.


## QUESTION 13: MALE AND FEMALE ENERGY

**Participant:** Greetings, Bashar. To you. Good day. I just um wanted you to clarify one idea for you. Yes. Um it's the idea that um you have the option of being able to express yourselves in both a male and female form.

**Bashar:** Do you mean incarnationally?

**Participant:** Yes. Yes. Could you elaborate on that? Elaborate on the ability of a spirit to express itself as a male or a female. On your particular ability on your planet.

**Bashar:** Ah the idea is that we have male and female similar to your own idea of male and female. Though at this point in our evolution we are moving more into non-physicality as beings becoming more energy and thus in a sense there is less differentiation to a great degree now in our civilization but it would still be recognized in general as an overall male or female masculine or feminine vibration that is simply expressed in the most symbolic and archetypal of terms or ways, though there are still some attributes that you would recognize physiologically as male and female.

But again, it is more of a blended thing in that each and every being on our planet expresses the qualities of masculine and feminine energies within themselves equally. Does that make sense to you?

**Participant:** Yes. All right. What further clarification do you feel you require on this? Do you wish to take this in a particular direction?

**Bashar:** I I just I wanted clarification on uh the differences between male and female energy.

**Participant:** The idea can be most generally put as the difference between what you would call assertion and receptivity. But of course you can experience that in males and females. But just speaking archetypally this is the basic idea. That which cues into physiological focus is generally considered to be masculine. That which goes inward into inner receptivity to extract its knowledge and information is generally considered a feminine trait. Does that make sense to you?

**Bashar:** Yes. Thank you. So the idea of the working together, the harmonization of inner insight and outward expression of that insight is the blending and balancing of male and female energy in a fundamental and simplistic way. 


## QUESTION 14: CAT'S DEATH AND BLACK PANTHER

**Participant:** Hi. Do you good day? um my cat Casey that died this week.

**Bashar:** Yes. I'm continuing to explore that experience, particularly the experience of having a death. Death. Yes. In my life. Yes. Death in life.

Um and like for the first 24 hours after he died, it and this seems to be true of anyone that I know that when they die, it feels like a birth in that there's a strange sensation in the air for me.

**Bashar:** All right. That um everything feels very magical. Um, I could feel Casey's presence around me the whole and you are feeling dimensional doorways opening because you are stretching your senses in a sense to find them which is one of the things that is exciting about the idea of death, especially of the idea of ones close to you because their transition to the spirit side in some ways because of your love forces you to stretch after them and expand your sensory apparatus. Absolutely. Yes.

**Participant:** This to some degree is what you're experiencing. And is that that's part of the gift then that he was giving to me was to pull me in that direction.

**Bashar:** Yes. Oh, I see. And of course, like a cat, you followed with your curiosity. Oh, I just I can't imagine not feeling him around me because then don't.

**Participant:** All right. And a couple weeks ago, um, I saw Black Panther in Las Vegas and he was on a branch and I started communicating with him. Yes. And he started doing all the cat things that they generally do when I communicate in that way. Right. I've always been fascinated with black.

**Bashar:** This may have been a precursor to the idea of taking the black cat to a more expanded level symbolically. Do you understand?

**Participant:** Well, it feels like the energy of the I remember becoming a black panther one time in Hawaii in a bamboo forest. Yes. But do you understand what we mean in relation to the death of your cat? That I felt like the spirit of the panther was imbued within me from the death of my cat. Yes. And the interaction with the panther synchronistically was a premonatory representation of the expansion of the energy of the black cat.

**Bashar:** Oh, seeing the cat on a bigger level. And he was Yeah, he was definitely bigger. Yes. And in a way, the vibration of your cat was involved in that interaction with the panther. Oh, yeah. Cuz it's through Casey again. He's being the bridge in helping me feel that bigger energy. Now you understand.

**Participant:** Oh, well, when he was first born, he he came out screaming and he was he seemed very fearful and like he had brought that in from another life and he was always had to be dominant as far as eating and during meal times he would go around and slap everybody. Make sure again a reflection for you of issues that you have been dealing with with regard to how you relate to some other people in your life and in your upbringing.

**Bashar:** Yeah. And and so I watched him develop from this kind of scaredy-cat into this very self-empowered strong male cat that relished his life totally. Yes. Um a good lesson for you. And yeah, that was the whole thing was about I said, "Okay, you can have your freedom." And he got killed. Yes. And now you can have your freedom, too. So get killed metaphorically.

**Participant:** I I plan on it. And then when I was driving over here today, um I sort of bliss out for a moment. I guess that's what happened and I ran into the car in front of me and it was like a jolt for me and for the other person. The cars weren't damaged. All right.

But the idea more than blissing out again is to learn to bring that ecstasy into applicable focus because you still have the assumption that the only way you can experience that level of energy is to remove yourself from your immediate surroundings and that's not the case.

You actually have to become more involved rather than leaving. You have to actually learn to infuse yourself with that expansive feeling of bliss more deeply into your environment rather than thinking that that expansion can only be experienced by checking out of your environment.

**Bashar:** I can see that. Yes. And that also is a sign and symbol of the panther who is very very very very intertwined and infused into its environment. It is its environment. It doesn't segregate itself from its environment. At the same time, it experiences the concept of total bliss. That's the ultimate lesson of the panther for you. So, be more present by infusing that bliss into your environment rather than detaching from it and wandering away.

**Participant:** Okay. Okay. I will. Thank you. Thank you for giving yourself the jolt to awaken.


## QUESTION 15: LUCIFER, THE FALL, AND MALDEC

**Participant:** Could you uh explain what the story in the Bible about Lucifer being tossed out of heaven was about?

**Bashar:** The idea while to some degree on one level of dimensional reality possessing some literalness, the idea in essence is the notion of the all that is separating from itself and creating the idea of polarity and densification. lowering of the frequencies to create itself to be all levels of reality including the idea of the lower denser ones.

So, a portion of its awareness, a portion of its consciousness, splitting off in a sense, and quote unquote falling from the state of all that is down through the different dimensional levels of density until arriving at what would be considered the polar opposite of limitation and differentiation from the one.

That is the archetypal understanding that then also creates within it autonomous archetypal representations of consciousness that can be experienced as individuated beings that you might call Lucifer and so forth, but at the same time are ultimately completely and only the product of that differentiation of God from itself. 

**Participant:** But are you saying that that's on one level and then there was another sort of more? is that any manifestation of the consciousness of the one?

**Bashar:** While it can be looked at as still a part of the one will also automatically because it is a creator create representational forms of consciousness to represent and express that manifestation that you would perceive as autonomous beings.

So for example what you call angels are the first level of split off of the one into many. It is a reflection of the one. The first level of expression that results from the one being selfaware because that implies a reflection. At first in a sense just speaking linearly to make this easy the one had no self-reflection.

But as soon as the one became selfaware of itself as the one that implies a reflection and the first level of the one having that self-aware moment of reflection created the level of itself you call the angels. Then within that was the first ability to create polarity which then created what you would call the light angels and the dark angels archetypally. 

**Bashar:** this then brought with it the concept of the manifestation of further densification and changing of frequencies into denser and denser and denser and denser and more differentiated and more segregated and more separate realities which then brought with it in each reality level its own representation of the collective reflection of the one in all of its forms as would be best represented by that reality level.

So what you call the concept of Lucifer in your reality level represents the collective consciousness in what you would call its polarized format as opposed to what you would call the light format of Christ consciousness or Buddha nature or Krishna spirit or however well you wish to express it doesn't matter.

The idea simply is that is the polarized archetypal expression of the collective reality of your dimensional domain. Does that make sense?

I'm wondering if there's any relationship to I'm thinking in terms of the Bible. there was a war in heaven and I'm wondering if there's any relationship to um Neuru the Nephilim Mald exploding 


**Bashar:** there is the ideas of certain kinds of what would appear to be conflictive reflective energies has been expressed in conflictive ways on various levels at variant times and those experiences are archetypally lumped in with this more fundamental understanding of creating this reality diversification.

So archetypally yes you can say that that concept links to other such experiences and they can all be categorized in the same general energy signature or field. At the same time you can also look at it in general as an overall archetypal representation. Does that make sense?

**Participant:** It does and I understand the archetypes that you're talking about. 

Why did Maldek explode archetypally?

**Bashar:** It had to do with collisions of planetary bodies, but that the vibration of those attached to it were thus that they could allow themselves to be impacted in that way. He speaks of the vibration of the polarization we are archetypally addressing.


**Participant:** So is Lucifer Archangel Lucifer more represents in a sense the separation in consciousness where Archangel Michael is the bringing back together and that you need both to have this dance is that that he in a generalized sense.

**Bashar:** Yes. Although of course there are many other aspects that also need to come together in this including the goddess energy in order for there to be true integration. 

that idea of there there's a Sufi story where Archangel Lucifer loved God so much that when God said, you know, now you must serve man, he refused because he would not bow to anything other than God is I I see a reflective pattern even in this idea of Lucifer. Yes. Which is one who in a sense will separate out because it knows it's together. 

Like one time I I asked him how he could take such abuse and he told me that he never forgot the one. He always remembers the one he loves and he never forgets who they are. And that there was a real spin on who who they are and who this would be, shall we say, a cultural way of expressing the idea.

**Bashar:** We cannot explain it any more clearly than that.

**Participant:** I get it. But it is a cultural way of expressing an idea. 

But there's still an inclusion in there. I mean of a sort but there is also the concept itself of exclusion. Yes. Which is at the very core of the concept of the creation of what you are talking about when you refer to the entity archetypal concept consciousness of Lucifer. Yes. But if he's just the polarity let's say of Michael I mean one's not better than the other. 

They're both the same. Yes. Aren't they both? But it is also other than the polarity of just what you call Michael. 
