---
heading: Part 1
title: "Tapestry of Life"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1997-03-16
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 135
tags: ['remote viewing']
---


**Jim Sham (Host):** Hi, Jim Sham from Strange Universe. Can you tell our audience something about who you are and how and why you've come to work through Daryl?

**Bashar:** We represent ourselves as what you would call an extraterrestrial consciousness. We are a different civilization from your own, but we understand many of the same or similar things that you do. The idea of living life through joy, of expressing creativity, of connection to the infinite creation. And our purpose and our reason for this transmission, this contact, this communication is to provide each and every one of you individually and all of you together collectively an opportunity to examine, to explore new perspectives, new reflections, new ideas, new ways of examining your reality, of deciding whether or not you are living the lives you wish to live.

To expand both your reality and thus conversely our reality, for anyone we interact with is to us a reflection of ourselves, and whatever changes you decide to make will also allow us to experience creation in that many more perspectives, that many more ways. So, we are a civilization similar to your own, who wishes to answer your invitation to explore new levels of consciousness with you, to interact in whatever way you see fit, and to examine together in what ways we can both in the future perhaps interact more broadly. We are giving an opportunity to understand that you are the creators of your reality and to understand pragmatically how to go about applying this knowledge to your world so that you can gain the results that many of you say you want but perhaps have not necessarily been taught or trained to understand how to acquire. We can explain in a sense delineate and define the specific apparatus by which your consciousness does create the reality it already experiences, and by that examination perhaps illuminate how you can transform and change that mechanism to allow it to work for you in a more harmonious way, more creative way according to your own wishes and your own desires. This as you would say in your language in a nutshell is who we are and why we are communicating with your civilization at this time. 


## The Channeling Process

**Jim Sham:** Can you describe to me how how do you work through Daryl? How does a channeling process work from your side?

**Bashar:** Describe by a simple analogy. At least in this particular case, it is what we call resonance identification or a telepathic bond. In other words, similar to the concept of what you call two tuning forks that are tuned to each other, the channel has been trained to allow his brain waves to accelerate to a certain pitch or frequency. We change our brain wave frequency where we are in our location downward to match his frequency. He moves upward, we move downward because we are on a higher vibratory plane. Somewhere in the middle, our frequencies meet, synchronize, and lock. Thus, similar to the tuning fork analogy, when you start one tuning fork vibrating, if the other one is tuned to it, it will also vibrate in what you would call a type of sympathetic harmonization. This is a fundamental description of the basic mechanism. Once our brain waves are synchronized, our thoughts thus then are simply immediately and automatically translated through the channel's mind, and I am not actually there with you. But what you are getting is a model of my consciousness made out of the channel's energy on your planet.


**Jim Sham:** How how do you choose out of all of the subjects on Earth? How do you choose who you're going to channel through?

**Bashar:** In this particular case and in many cases, even though many people may not understand this or know about this, we always work with different aspects of the same oversoul. In other words, we are in a way in a manner of speaking the channel's future self. You can look at that incarnationally if you want to. You can say that at some point the physical channel will leave his life and will reincarnate in my civilization in what you call the future, and then in my reality I will have an opportunity to communicate backwards in time through my own past self. In this way linearly explained, you can simply see that what I have actually done is simply chosen myself. So that doesn't necessarily involve anyone who is automatically not willing or doesn't need to participate in this kind of interaction, since I already know that my past self is more than willing to because my past self became what I am. 

## Heaven's Gate and Hale-Bopp Comet

**Jim Sham:** I also have a more specific question regarding Heaven's Gate and the Hale-Bopp comet. Do you have any insight into exactly what happened there?

**Bashar:** All belief systems in their own right are valid, but we would in our opinion express that there may have been some confusion on the part of those individuals as to exactly what the consequences of certain actions would be.

There may have been misunderstanding and misinterpretation of certain metaphysical principles that would lead them to conclude that they would experience certain things that they now in spirit know they are not going to experience. We will put it this way again not meaning in any way, shape or form to be disrespectful to anyone's belief system.

But let us say that we can perceive that when they arrived on the other side in the spirit world, most of them were quite surprised that they did not wind up where they thought they were going to wind up. The idea simply is that they now are beginning to realize from that perspective that a more idealized interpretation of many of the beliefs, a more discerning interpretation of many of their beliefs would have allowed them to actually choose to remain on your planet and to help and assist with the transformation taking place. Though of course they can still do this in spirit. But the idea now is that they have recognized that the consequences of their action is not what they thought it would be. And this is a chance for their soul to learn and become more specific, more discerning, more precise in their understanding of the nature of creation.

Hale-Bopp is simply a comet. There is no spaceship attached to it. 

There is no large objects following it. 

But it is nevertheless a reflection because everything in physical reality is a reflection of consciousness. 

Thus while it doesn't control you nor determine your fate, it is a reflection of changes that you as a society have already decided in your collective consciousness to make. 

So the timing of the comet as a reflective symbol is much more profound and understandable than the idea that it actually brings with it any particular kind of thing that would impact or influence you directly. So this is another example of a misinterpretation of the physical universe that is connected to the idea of what might be hopes and dreams and wishes on behalf of many of your people. Yet at the same time, some of these hopes and dreams and wishes may actually result in a running away from the challenge rather than a true acceptance of the challenge to be firmly grounded where you are and apply your knowledge in beneficial ways to your society.



## Strange Universe

**Jim Sham:** is it indeed a strange universe out there?

**Bashar:** Absolutely. we would always trust that it will be, for strangeness is challenging and strangeness means that you will always discover something new. 

So we invite the idea of strangeness into our reality so that we will know there will always be a new corner, a new aspect, a new perspective, a new presentation of the infinite creation to discover, and that will always expand us into a new level of understanding. And yet still there will always be at least from our perspective and our experience more strangeness to behold.


## The Tapestry Analogy

**Bashar:** We would like now to begin with the following idea that we will call the tapestry. We have from time to time discussed the notion that your collective reality can be likened unto the analogy of a tapestry. Yet each and every one of you individually is like unto a thread within that overall tapestry. Now, as you trace the course of your individual thread through life, it would be of great value to you to not lose sight of the whole tapestry of what you and your colloquial language call the big picture. Many of you when you find yourselves tracing your individual threads may experience the idea of becoming detached from the whole picture, lost among all the other threads, feeling cut off, isolated, and feeling a lack of support. But the idea is that this only results when you define the forgetfulness, the forgetting that you are connected to the whole. When you define that forgetfulness as detachment, as being cut off, then it creates what you experience as a fearful isolation. But if you will in exploring your thread, understand and always remember that sometimes it is necessary to forget the whole in order to experience the individual thread.

Then you will understand that you can define forgetfulness as part of the experience of the thread rather than forgetfulness as a cutting off a detachment from the whole idea. If you always remember that the forgetfulness is simply a tool sometimes that works in your benefit so that you can have a full experience of the isolated and individual reality within the whole tapestry, then you will never be at a loss. You will never fear the idea of being cut off and you will be able to always bring yourself back to the perspective of the whole tapestry which then can support your individual journey as you travel down the thread.

So take time as you find yourself sometimes feeling at the end of your rope, as you say, out on that limb as you say, to remember that you are connected to a tree which is connected to the ground which is connected to everything. You can trace that thread back to another thread and another and another and another and another, and it altogether weaves to form this beautiful tapestry, the richness of light. Allow yourself to forget if you want to play that game, but at least give yourself the opportunity to allow forgetting to be part of the game and not be seen as an interruption in it or a cutting off of the thread that isolates you in a fear-inducing manner.

We thank you for allowing us to bring this perspective into this transmission, into this communication, this day of your time. And once again, we thank each and every one of you for allowing the co-creation of this transmission through this window. Each and every time you allow our civilization to interact with you in this way, it allows our civilization to see through you that many more ways that the infinite has of expressing itself. 



### Monroe Tapes

**Participant:** A friend loaned me the Monroe tapes and I got up to about five of them and put them aside and picked up one of my friend's other tapes. 

It's also a meditative tape, also a hemisync, but it wasn't the Monroe tapes. And I was laying in bed and when the tape was over I guess I woke up or came out or whatever and I lifted my head up to take the headphones up and at the edge of my bed there was a man standing there who also had headphones on and he was older, he's like 70s. 

I was kind of taken aback by that. But I closed my eyes and looked again and he was still there. I was wondering could that be somebody that was on the same frequency?

**Bashar:** To some degree, yes, this is actually several things symbolically. Number one, you were tapping into the idea of someone who simultaneously was on the same wavelength as you were, as you already instinctively picked up. But also what you were tapping into and getting a reflection of was an archetypal image of a sage that is letting you know that in that particular moment you are walking down the path most representative of your own truth, exploring and opening the doorways that are most representative of your own spiritual growth. And you got the reflection of someone reflecting back to you with that image. The idea that you are following the correct course for yourself at this time. 

**Bashar:** It is in that sense the archetypal image of the teacher, the archetypal image of the sage, the wizard, that which would allow you also to touch into what you would euphemistically call your future self. The idea of where you will be someday is a more expanded being. 

**Bashar:** That is basically what it represents to you as far as we can scan your energy at this moment. 

**Participant:** I have one other question. I liked what you opened with because I was dealing with a lot of stuff. Looking for another job and I've been really emotional with a lot of things going on and been feeling kind of lost with that. I was wondering if you could scan my energy and see if that's what's going on or if there's something like low in vitamins or something like that that I'm missing.

**Bashar:** Anything that occurs in your physiological reality will usually begin with a mental or emotional basis first. Of course you already understand that.

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So the idea is that whether or not you might experience a body that is low in nutrients, it still behooves you, as you say, to get back in touch with the idea that you yourself may be scattering your energy by not allowing yourself to be as cleanly focused on your joy, your excitement, your own inner core, higher purpose as much as you might want to. You follow?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Creating that kind of confusion within yourself by getting caught up in your definitions will sometimes cause stress upon the bodily system and allow there to be a depletion of nutrients and minerals. But the idea is that no matter how many of those you might take to rebalance the body, it will still always require that you bring yourself back into center. Bring yourself back into alignment and allow yourself a moment of relaxation and pause to take stock of exactly what it is you actually do want to do so that you are not scattering your energy but allowing it to flow coherently in a sense like a laser beam along one particular synchronistic path. Do you understand?

**Participant:** Mhm.

**Bashar:** So give yourself that opportunity and you will find generally that if you do require something in your body, you will synchronistically attract yourself to the information that will tell you what you need while at the same time you will bring your energy levels back up automatically and may find that you don't necessarily need that much physiological adjustment.


### Remote Viewing

**Participant:** I did a session just recently, remote viewing, and it was on myself. Purpose for current lifetime. What I did basically was access my higher self.

**Bashar:** Yes. And what did you find?

**Participant:** Unconditional love.

**Bashar:** That is the purpose of all of your lives. I mean all of you. Not just all of your lives, but all of your lives. The idea really is to simply be who you are. That's really the fundamental purpose to all of your life. Because you have never been this you before. You will never be this you again. So this you only does have one life to live. And therefore, the purpose of being this you is to be this you as best as you can. And the easiest way to accomplish that is to allow yourself to live through unconditional love and express yourself creatively in whatever ways you deem are representative of that unconditional love and creativity.

**Participant:** Basically a lot of the being part of the one and the all.

**Bashar:** Also, but that's automatic. That's one of the laws. Can't help that. Exactly.

**Participant:** Well, anyways, I wanted to ask you a question. I heard a tape recently on dyslexia and the gentleman was describing a lot of recent research that he's done. That really has opened up a lot of avenues to dyslexia and that really a lot more people are dyslexic than they originally thought.

**Bashar:** All right.

**Participant:** To some degree it is the result of certain short-circuiting functions along the neurological pathways within the brain in the sense that they are not creating a harmonious result or image within the brain matrix. You understand?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Because what I basically would like you to do is explain what the brain does while remote viewing. Because what I found from what this guy described, he said that Tesla, I believe it was Einstein, Leonardo Da Vinci, some of the greatest discoverers were dyslexics and they could see three-dimensional pictures in their minds before they ever created anything on paper or their discoveries.

**Bashar:** The idea being, if I may interrupt you, is that it is similar to the concept also of the channeling state in that there is similarity in the channeling state to the brain condition on your planet you call epilepsy, but it is a controlled version of the idea. Dyslexic entities are also in some senses tapping into the same random fluctuation, quantum fluctuation of brain activity. There is a chaotic factor involved in the way that brain connections are made. And if an individual cannot necessarily find a way to coordinate them on a new level in a new domain of brainwave frequency in a more holographic and cohesive manner, then it may simply result as dysfunctionality such as the concept of dyslexia or epilepsy. But when it can be elevated to a higher level and trusted to take its cue from a higher more etheric level, then it can be coordinated. This random chaotic brain activity can be coordinated from a higher level and thus by being coordinated from a higher level acting as a go-between, then it can extend the brain wave functions of sensitivity, what it's capable of picking up upon like an antenna to a higher realm that contains more of creation and thus more information can be accessed through the filter of the immediate etheric realm above the physical and then translated down into the physical brain matrix and expressed through your logical symbolic language. Did that make sense to you?

**Participant:** I'm sure once I listen to the tape...

**Bashar:** Let's simplify this idea. You have to some degree now on your planet expressed an understanding of what you call chaos theory.

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** The idea, however, is that you also know that if you place a number of dots on one of your pieces of paper seemingly at random, chaotically with no logical rhyme or reason, allowing the odds to simply dominate where the dots will fall, you now know that eventually with enough dots on the paper it will actually reveal an underlying structural pattern more often than not triangular or tetrahedral in structure. You follow me so far?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** The idea therefore is that when the brain goes into this random state, it is similar to what you would call one of your roulette wheels or your slot machines in that the wheels are spinning randomly. But if they only look for cues as to where to fall from the physical universe, things will become confused because they are trying to express a higher order, a higher magnitude of order. And thus when they look to physical reality for how to find that order, it will be more difficult to find. But when they look to the higher level, the pattern is already there in the etheric before it ever comes into the physical. So this random activity can actually more easily find a structure to lock onto by going up the scale of energy frequency, expanding its point of view into the higher energy dimensions and realms. And that will allow the coordination to automatically take place. It will allow the ball so to speak to fall into the correct pocket or the slots to fall where they need to to make sense organizationally in your physical reality. 


**Participant:** Would you say that the corpus callosum is the part of the brain that's the key to doing remote viewing?

**Bashar:** It is the key to many things. The idea of what you call the corpus callosum being the dividing line between the hemispheres of your brain acts to some degree as the clearing house for allowing the translation to come through and for deciding which hemisphere of the brain will handle what. So in that sense it is really the key to almost anything that you need to express back into physiological terminology. But it is the main access division point that accesses the higher realms. Everything comes through that and is regulated by what you call the pituitary and pineal glands.

**Participant:** Because information when you're remote viewing, at least with me, sometimes it comes in just words. Sometimes it'll come in an actual whole group of words, a sentence or a block of information.

**Bashar:** It will follow the path of least resistance based on the state of the physical receptor, i.e. your body at any given moment. Like water, like lightning, it will follow the path that is set up for it that implies the path of least resistance. And sometimes that will be words and sometimes that will be pictures depending upon your mood, your state and what it is you are connecting to and how it is you symbolically relate to that idea and interpret it. Do you understand?

**Participant:** Oh yes. Does that help you?

**Bashar:** Yes. Thank you very much.

---

### Third Questioner

**Bashar:** Number two, do you know who you are?

**Participant:** Good day. I attended a seminar today on the Illuminati and the New World Order. They talked about a lot of different things such as the fact that many members of our government were involved in the Oklahoma City bombing. The belief, not the fact, the belief that they were involved in it.

**Bashar:** Yes. Because many of what they call facts are not necessarily facts as you understand them. Some of them maybe, but they are also compounded and amplified with beliefs that take them beyond the realm of fact.

**Participant:** Well, they showed a photograph of a military camp that was set up that seemed to reveal that the Ryder truck was there and all the details seem to validate what they were saying.

**Bashar:** Yes, but you can make many things arrange to appear to validate almost anything. Okay, if you want to. Now, we are not saying that there is not some truth to this, but it is not as much as you might think. And many of these so-called clues can seem misleading. Even with the best of intentions, they can be misconstrued to mean things that they don't. We do understand that your government has factions that do involve themselves in these kinds of things surreptitiously. We understand that that does exist on your planet and we would never deny that. But we would also suggest that you take with a grain of salt the idea of any absolute examination of every single detail because many of these can be very misleading and might simply be bent to fit the agendas of individuals who want to make it look that way. We are again not saying that there was not some involvement and we will not go into great detail at this time about this idea. But it is not as grand a scale of involvement as many individuals might think that it is. In the same way that many individuals on your planet profess the idea that your government has something to do also with the incident you have referred to as the Heaven's Gate suicide. This is not so. You understand?

**Participant:** Yeah, they also said that they have met with gang leaders from the Bloods and the gangs and that they have in a sense an army of these gang members all around the country who are ready to war when they plan on doing this takeover.

**Bashar:** Let me ask you a question. How often do you see many of the gangs that exist in your culture cooperating with each other?

**Participant:** Well, I work with the gang bangers that do cooperate.

**Bashar:** So, when you work with a very select few, I am asking you the question on a general sense. Answer it generally if you please.

**Participant:** In general, not often at all.

**Bashar:** Right. This should tell you something. Well, what they propose is that this should tell you something. Okay. And this is as far as we will take it.

**Participant:** Okay. What? Well, the real essence of my question is it's not just the Illuminati and this whole thing that I'm hearing around me, but I seem to be meeting a lot of people lately that are living in a fear-based reality. They carry guns. They can't...

**Bashar:** This is a warning for you.

**Participant:** Well, I don't choose to live in that reality.

**Bashar:** But you often do. Many of the conversations we have involve fear-based belief systems. So this is a warning and an opportunity for you. You can look at it either way. You are being given an opportunity to see an acceleration in your reality of the result of continuing along a path of fear-based reality belief system to decide for yourself whether you prefer that idea or whether you would prefer to continue as you have relative to the idea of how it is you are in a positive and constructive way working with the gang members that are willing to reflect cooperation to you. This is an opportunity for you to choose which idea seems more real to you ultimately for your own personal life and not to get caught up in the idea of what actually might have more power to happen. The only thing you will be impacted by is the vibration of the reality that you decide is most real for you. And this is your opportunity to accelerate your ability to have that discernment and apply it in your own life as you prefer to. And that is the only level upon which we will address this issue at this time.

---

**Participant:** I'd also like to share with you a dream I had this week. It was pretty interesting for me. I usually don't remember my dreams, but there was a Siberian tiger in a cage. And I realized afterwards it represented me because that's my logo and I identify very strongly with tigers. And the Siberian is...

**Bashar:** It is a representation of your full self-empowerment.

**Participant:** Right. And I felt bad that this tiger was in a cage. It had a muzzle on as well. And so I released it and I let it go into my bedroom. And at first I was very scared and I was scared to go into my bedroom. But then I had friends around me including Daryl. And ultimately I went into my bedroom with my friends and I was cradling the tiger's head in my arm. And what was interesting is that the tiger was cuddling up to me and purring.

**Bashar:** Of course you let it out. You treated it with love.

**Participant:** And one of my friends bit my hand.

**Bashar:** Yes. It is very good as a symbol on what we have just discussed that this is a symbol that you are giving yourself of the correct path to take to make a friend of your true full power, not to be afraid of it, not to give into the idea of fear. While at the same time it was also showing you that maybe not from the direction you expect, you still hold in reserve sometimes that little trap door that says something can sneak in from behind and nip at you even if it doesn't come from the direction you think it would have come from. But this is a beautiful symbol for you to focus on the idea of exactly how beneficial it would be to let your power out of that cage of fear and definitions that you have been brought up with that do not serve you in a positive and constructive way. You follow?

**Participant:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** Thank you.

---

### Fourth Questioner

**Bashar:** Number two, do you know who you are?

**Participant:** Good day. I saw you on Thursday about creating my own reality. Things are kind of piling up on me and I'm trying to cope with my husband's death.

**Bashar:** Yes, I understand. And as we discussed, it is all right for you to take your time. You understand? You don't have to be in a rush with it. Your pace is your own to decide. You follow?

**Participant:** Yeah. Thing is that things I try to create my own reality.

**Bashar:** You are creating your own reality. You don't have to try to create your own reality. The idea is that you create your own reality already. The reality you create will always be the product of the strongest beliefs and definitions you hold to be true. So, it's a matter of deciding and choosing and creating definitions and beliefs that work more in harmony with who you prefer to be as opposed to creating definitions that are out of alignment with who you prefer to be. It's not about creating your reality as if you don't already do that. Do you understand the difference?

**Participant:** Trying to.

**Bashar:** No, not trying to. The idea again is stop trying to create your reality for now in your particular circumstance. The thing you need to do, remember the rocking, is to relax like the baby being rocked in the arms of the supportive and loving parent. That was the strongest symbol you were given regarding the correct path for you at this time to allow yourself to heal within the experience of the death of your husband.

**Participant:** Yeah, but there are other things that are not going right.

**Bashar:** No, no, no. You are defining them still. You are seeing the product of your definition. Definitions that are still out of alignment. The only way they would appear to quote unquote not be going right is because you're holding a definition that allows you to only view them in that light. You need to examine your definitions. Remember we discussed nothing has built-in meaning. You remember that?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So when you look at a situation, don't define it as something not going right. Allow yourself to define it as something that needs to be there. You may prefer it to ultimately change, but what is there is there for a reason. When you define it as being there for a reason, in other words, as being all right to be there, then you will be able to extract from the experience what you need to understand in order to use that information to allow it to transform in a way that you would prefer. But if you keep reacting to circumstances by defining them as being bad, as not being right, you will only be able to extract that kind of a result from the experience because the meaning you put in is what determines the effect you get out. That's the third law of creation. Does that make sense to you?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So you need to relax and give yourself an opportunity at every moment in every circumstance to not rush in to an assumption of what you think is happening, of what you think the situation means, to stop defining the things that are going on as not being right. Every single time that comes up, take a moment to pause and examine the situation completely neutrally without any meaning at all. Then even though you may not always intellectually be able to understand the specifics of how this could work for you, you have to begin in order to get it to work for you. You have to begin by at least assuming in general that it can be nothing but a situation that will work in your favor if you let it. And the way to allow it to show you how it can is to begin by laying the foundation of assumption that this is for some reason something that is going right for you even if the old you would have defined it otherwise. Does that make sense to you?

**Participant:** It does make sense.

**Bashar:** That is the process that will help you right now. So take the time to do that and don't push yourself so hard and don't try so hard right now. This is about healing. It's about being good to yourself, treating yourself well with the same kind of love that you know is coming from your husband. You understand?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So relax. Feel the rocking.

**Participant:** He's rocking me all the time. Yes, I know. Well, go with it. What do you think the message is? Go with it. Take time. Relax. Enjoy the walking. Don't be in such a hurry to be somewhere you're not. Be where you are. And everything will be able to be more easily changed. But don't be in such a hurry to change it. Otherwise, paradoxically, everything will stay exactly the same because that's the way the universe works. Okay? So, take your time. Be good to yourself. All right?

**Participant:** Thank you. Does that help you?

**Bashar:** Very much so. Thank you.

---

### Fifth Questioner

**Bashar:** Number two, do you know who you are?

**Participant:** I recently became aware of an old race in the northwestern part of our state and I was wondering what old race the Elven beings that are helping the Lily Hill Farms at their vineyard.

**Bashar:** All right. This is a dimensional interphase that exists quite commonly at different points around your planet. Do you understand?

**Participant:** I understand.

**Bashar:** Continue.

**Participant:** Is there a relationship between them and the missing Lake Superior copper ore from the mines in the northern peninsula?

**Bashar:** No. No relationship. Not a personal one. The idea is this. As interdimensional phasing takes place in certain areas, there may be a transmutation of certain elements in your reality to other forms that is a side effect of the dimensional interfacing. Does that make sense?

**Participant:** That makes perfect sense.

**Bashar:** So it isn't something that they are doing, but it is to some degree a side effect that is common with dimensional interfacing. This is also why sometimes when individuals will allow themselves to personally experience dimensional interfacing, they will find that it might be necessary to replace their electrolytes and their minerals very rapidly as they might become depleted. You follow?

**Participant:** I follow.

**Bashar:** Because those elements are used to conduct the energy and as they conduct the energy they also in some senses are transmuted and thus need to be replaced.

**Participant:** Thank you. Does that help you?

**Bashar:** That helps me a lot. Anything else?

**Participant:** Nothing else, sir.

---

### Sixth Questioner

**Bashar:** Number two, do you know who you are? All right, number one. All right. And number three, do you know who you are?

**Participant:** All right, Percy. Thank you for the help you've been to me. I am being asked from time to time to comment on a person's life purpose and the reading I get is that they will have fulfilled a certain percentage of their life's purpose and that in virtually all cases so far they are going to exceed their life's purpose in some sense.

**Bashar:** Because this is the transformational age on your planet. So in a sense everyone came in with certain themes that they wanted to explore in the manner of being themselves and fulfilling the purpose of being themselves and exploring those themes. But because this is the transformational age and the end of many old cycles and the beginning of a new one, then yes of course they will go beyond the old purposes and will start a new cycle. They will transcend it.

**Participant:** It just seemed reasonable enough when the numbers were up to exceeding their life's purpose by 50%, and then I've been getting a few that were like 1,600%.

**Bashar:** Yes. Oh, this is not unusual because the idea is that once you go into acceleration, then everything is accelerated. It is in a sense, as you would say, logarithmic. Do you understand?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So different things will be more capable of being accomplished once you accelerate and once you transcend beyond that threshold. Things that might have taken many different lifetimes can be done in one.

**Participant:** All right. I was a little unnerved by that by the big numbers and wondering whether I was...

**Bashar:** Collect your nerves and put them back. I'm glad for your comment. All right. Does that help you then?

**Participant:** That does. May I ask another question?

**Bashar:** That was a question. So, I guess you can.

---

**Participant:** Reflecting back on my own life, it seems to me that a lot of rapid changes began around 1987.

**Bashar:** That was what you typically referred to many of you as your harmonic convergence.

**Participant:** Yes. I was thinking that it might have begun in February of 1987.

**Bashar:** Oh, please, please, please, when you say begun, there are many, many, many uplift moments, many threshold crossings. They've been going on for quite some time now as you count time to exist. It isn't always necessary to look for a particular moment. When did it all begin? The idea really is that you are accelerating now constantly and different individuals will experience different thresholds at different times, but also collectively you will experience many different threshold moments.

**Participant:** Did 1987 supernova 1987A have an impact with its neutrino burst?

**Bashar:** Not an impact but a reflection. Remember anything, everything that goes on in the physical universe is a symbolic reflection of changes already taking place within the collective consciousness or individual consciousness of anyone perceiving that particular physical reflection. So the idea of that neutrino burst was an indication of not something that had an impact on you but something that was reflective of a jump up, a quantum leap. Do you understand?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** And it is also reflective specifically of the idea of packing more in to a smaller amount of time because as many of your scientists know neutrinos in a sense have a certain lifespan. You follow me?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Yet the idea is that they last many times longer apparently than their so-called lifespan ought to account for. But in that they are moving close to the speed of light, time for them is slowed down. So in that sense they are experiencing to some degree from your perspective a lot more time, getting a lot more done in a small amount of time. You follow?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So that is one of the other reflections going on within the acceleration of your consciousness. The bending and flexing of time and space is going to become very common place. You follow?

**Participant:** Yes. Does it help you?

**Bashar:** It helps. Thank you.

---

### Seventh Questioner

**Bashar:** Number two. And to you, good day. Speak up and be bold so that all may hear what you have to share.

**Participant:** All right. Okay. So, I want to talk to you about my relationship with Adrien.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right.

**Participant:** What started out to be what I thought was one of the most blissful experiences of my life has now come to a place where it's quite painful.

**Bashar:** I see.

**Participant:** And I wanted to talk to you about it.

**Bashar:** Go right ahead.

**Participant:** I've been thinking about...

**Bashar:** And before you continue, may I remind you respectfully that it still is a reflection of your bliss.

**Participant:** Okay, let's talk about that.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right. Thought you might want it. Yeah, but the idea is to not talk about it in past tense as if you thought it was one of the most blissful things and now it still even in past terms can be considered a blissful thing in your life.

**Participant:** Yes, it was a blissful experience. It still is. I'm in a lot of pain right now.

**Bashar:** I know. Where's the bliss? It is your pain. Remember that work? You only have one energy. You remember there is only one energy.

**Participant:** Okay.

**Bashar:** So, I'm believing that you are experiencing your energy as pain instead of bliss when you flow your energy through negative belief systems that are out of alignment with your truth. That's how it works. That's the mechanism. Okay. So because it changed in a way you didn't expect it to, you found that you had certain expectations that is now allowing you to experience your energy as pain instead of bliss because you are creating negative definitions with regard to the change instead of assuming that they are a continuation of your bliss.

**Participant:** They don't feel like a continuation.

**Bashar:** Why don't they feel like it?

**Participant:** Because rejection...

**Bashar:** No, no, no, no. Okay. So what? Remember all that we have already taught.

**Participant:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** A feeling is what?

**Participant:** Secondary to a belief.

**Bashar:** Yes. Right. Do you remember that?

**Participant:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** All right. So why does it feel painful?

**Participant:** Because I believe it.

**Bashar:** Thank you. So you can't use the idea. I'm not taking away from your feelings. I am not invalidating what you feel. You feel whatever you want. And that in and of itself is beautiful. But the idea is that the only reason you can have a feeling is because you have a belief. The feeling will always reflect the belief. So it is not painful because rejection is painful. It is painful because you are defining it as rejection in a negative sense because you have other definitions that are allowing you to experience the change in a negative way. That's why you're experiencing your energy as painful because you have constricted it. That's what the pain is. You have constricted yourself because you do not believe that the change is reflective of your bliss. So in that sense what you are saying is that you are doubting your life. You are doubting your reality. You are choosing to define this as a loss instead of a change leading to higher bliss and more opportunity for greater bliss. And thus you're only experiencing it as a loss because you're defining it as such. So you can only see the pain and feel the pain and you cannot therefore see the opportunities that would allow you to experience the greater bliss that the change could have allowed you and can still allow you to experience but will only be visible to you when you define the change in a blissful way. You have to define the change in a blissful way in order to experience the opportunity for more bliss. If you define the change in a painful way, you can only experience pain. This is the third law of creation. What you put out is what you get back. That's it. Can't break that law. No matter how much you may want to.

**Participant:** So, yes, being a human that you know I've led my life up until this point where I have defined things in this way.

**Bashar:** And you're doing smashingly by the way. Really like it. I know. But you're doing better than you might think.

**Participant:** Okay. So, I mean I have moments.

**Bashar:** Moments. Yes. And the idea is that more and more and more of you are learning to allow those moments to be longer and longer and longer so that eventually all the moments will meet and become one moment. Because after all, as we've said, there is only one moment and everything you define as another moment is the same one moment from another point of view. So this is exactly what you're learning to do is to allow your life to be experienced not necessarily meaning that it will be experienced temporarily as a single moment but energetically as a single moment. You follow?

**Participant:** Mhm.

**Bashar:** Although of course time will also collapse because as you know when you are involved in your bliss and your love you do not experience as much passage of physical time because you're not creating as much. Okay. So there will be some time contraction as well in the experiencing of your life as a single moment. But the idea energetically is to experience it that way. And one of the ways to begin to do that is to remember to practice in every circumstance no matter what it is. The tools we have discussed of course this is your choice but you can practice the tools we have discussed of taking that moment and defining it, even now in a positive way to see how it can be reflective of your bliss because it can be if you will let it be by defining it as such even if only generally.

**Participant:** So this opportunity for me then is a chance to redefine my reality.

**Bashar:** Yes. And your definition of relationships and what you think you need and so on and so on and so on. But the idea is for you to really lock onto the understanding that this change represents an opportunity for even greater bliss. Can you imagine that?

**Participant:** Yeah, it'd be great.

**Bashar:** It is. It is great. Thank you. So the idea is when you experience the concept in the past of having experienced bliss and this kind of a change comes about, aside from whatever it is you feel is appropriate to do to see if it can be in a sense kept on track. You understand? Because you should always allow yourself to explore the possibility that you can work together in the relationship to allow it to expand. But if you find that the circumstances are simply not allowing that to be the case and no opportunity therein is provided for you to do that, then that is your symbol to yourself to get really excited because what's coming up by definition must be even more blissful than what you just experienced.

**Participant:** Right. Okay. And that will get your motor going. That sounds good. Yes. But you have to do that every time something changes. Right. It is a moment-to-moment choice. Does that make sense to you?

**Participant:** It does make sense.

**Bashar:** And by the way, do you know that we love you?

**Participant:** Oh, God. Yes.

**Bashar:** All right. Thank you. Then all you have to do is remember that you love yourself just as much even when you forget that.

**Participant:** Well, I mean, I was thinking that what I had co-created in this relationship was maybe me saying that I didn't feel like I deserved this.

**Bashar:** But you know you do.

**Participant:** I know I do. And I was like, wait a minute. But you see, the assumption was simply that the change represented lack of deservability instead of representing even a greater expression of deservability. That's the difference in definition. That makes all the difference in experience.

**Participant:** Okay. Okay. Make sense?

**Bashar:** I'll buy that. Thank you very much.

---

### Eighth Questioner

**Bashar:** Number three. All right. Thank you.

**Participant:** Hi. And are you good? This is a personal question. I was divorced recently and my life seems to be in limbo. I don't know what direction I'm going in.

**Bashar:** All right. Well, what direction do you prefer to go in?

**Participant:** Forward.

**Bashar:** What does that mean?

**Participant:** I don't know.

**Bashar:** Yes, you do. Do you understand the concept of why we suggest so strongly that individuals follow their highest joy? Do you understand why we say that?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** All right. Explain it to me. I'm listening. In fact, 227 million of us are listening.

**Participant:** That's how you get your most excitement from what you do, what you love to do.

**Bashar:** And what is excitement?

**Participant:** Well, when you do something you love, you're just excited about it.

**Bashar:** But what is it? What is that sensation? What is it actually? What is excitement?

**Participant:** Energy.

**Bashar:** Yes. An energy. Whose energy?

**Participant:** My energy.

**Bashar:** Yes. Excitement is energy vibrating at the pitch that represents your true original natural self. Okay. So what direction would you always prefer to go in? The direction of your true natural self. Would you not?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Then that means all you have to do to accomplish that and be in alignment with that is at any given moment take an assessment of what excites you the most and take some action in that direction. Go after it. Simple, isn't it? But not really go after it because that may set up an expectation that the direction of your excitement may have to come to some particular fruition. All you have to do is act on that excitement to the best of your ability regardless of how it may play out ultimately because in the next moment something else may excite you. Okay? So the idea is to simply act on your excitement because that is what is going to provide you with all the opportunities to allow you to accomplish the only task, only mission, only goal any of you have and that is to be who you are. Okay. Everything you may choose to actually do, a career, a project, an expression creatively, those are the side effects, the expressions of your goal of being yourself. They are not your goals. They are the expressions of the goal of being yourself. And the easiest way to be yourself guaranteed is to simply act on your highest excitement at every single moment. And then when you do that, you will know you are, as you say, moving forward and in alignment with your true natural original self and becoming more holistic, becoming more excited, becoming more expansive, becoming more capable of experiencing more expansiveness and more excitement because it is a self-perpetuating cycle. Okay. Does that make sense to you mechanically?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Is it something that you believe you can act upon?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Does this serve you then?

**Participant:** Yes. Thank you.

---

### Ninth Questioner

**Participant:** Can I ask you one moment? I have another question. My friend has a daughter that he hasn't seen since 1983 and he wanted to know where to look for her.

**Bashar:** If you would have any idea where? What is the full resonance name?

**Participant:** Her name, the one that he's looking for. His daughter is Raquel Mckendry, and the name of your friend?

**Bashar:** Mac Mckendry. Approximate physical age of the daughter?

**Participant:** She'll be 18 in August. She was born August 14th, 1979. Approximate last known location on your planet: Hanford, California near Fresno.

**Bashar:** The only piece of information we can give is to look in what you would call the general Oregon area of your planet. We cannot at this time narrow it down any more than that.

**Participant:** Okay. Thank you.

**Bashar:** But go north.

**Participant:** Okay. Thank you very much.

---

### Tenth Questioner

**Bashar:** Number one proceed.

**Participant:** Hi Bashar. Good day. I want to share a most beautiful experience that was a great gift to me. Last Saturday and I've been in this bliss all week. Last Saturday I picked up Shaughnessy who's three and a half. Robert's little girl Shaughnessy. And we spent the day together. I had noticed the couple weeks before that she had these red shoes on like Dorothy in the Wizard of Oz. So, I rented that film and we watched The Wizard of Oz and we got up and we sang and we were on the yellow brick road, right? And clap for the good witch and booed for the wicked witch and just had a really great time. And then we shared strawberries and then we went into my office and she looked at my water fountains and then I have two bears that are musical. They play music when you wind them up. And then I had a little house that's musical and then I have a little Christmas tree that turns around that's musical. And so we took the bears and we danced with the bears and then we ordered from her restaurant and she then decided that it was their birthday and so we sang happy birthday five times. This is beginning to sound like a day on a...

**Bashar:** Oh, is it? Oh boy, what a day.

**Participant:** And then we went to the lake and we fed the ducks, although we don't have ducks. Okay. And we had also started to watch 101 Dalmatians. Oh, all right. Understood. We got halfway through that. Then we went to feed the dog only to 50 and a half. All right. We completed it afterwards, but then we went out for dinner and then we came back. And all in all, when I was taking her home, we're looking at the colors in the sky. And then she said, "Let's sing colors." And we did. And I said, "Do you want to sing Jingle Bells?" And she said, "Let's sing Jingle Bells. Let's sing Jingle in the Moon and we did that." Oh, all right. And then I noticed ever since then that energy, that vibration is that innocence of the child vibration. And what I've been tapping into when I am that vibration is that there was no difference. We were two people. It was ageless.

**Bashar:** One moment. What were we discussing synchronistically this day of your time? The concept of in the like there's the stage and there's the backdrop that is ever changing and the all that is the zero point energy, the fabric of everything that feels if we were almost home. Oh, yeah. Very close. Very, very, very close. Yes. Congratulations. Thank you. We could almost tell no difference in that moment between our world and yours. Oh, how beautiful. And again. And now we're going to go. We're going to do it again for the very first.

**Participant:** Oh, and you know what's so beautiful about that? What is that? I talked to her about because I love all the Christmas movies. And so we've made a date to watch all the Christmas movies. The Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer.

---

### Eleventh Questioner

**Bashar:** Number two.

**Participant:** Good day. Kind of a light topic and that is it has to do with the raising of the baby boomers from the parent standpoint.

**Bashar:** Baby boomers. That's right. Okay. These are the children.

**Participant:** Booming baby. Yeah. We had a big baby boom right after World War II.

**Bashar:** We understand the concept. We are simply playing with the wording.

**Participant:** You know that people get is from their parents and they from theirs and they from theirs and they from theirs and they from theirs but now I'd like to give you the concept of a break from that that came by all means from the parents had into the world to shove them that's right and shove in order to form their own beliefs. Oh, all right. And they had adventures. We let them have all the adventures they wanted. And of course there is always still a need for they learned. They learned the hard way. They experimented and had adventures in. In other words, they learned by living. That's right. All right. With some guidance. Yeah. Right. So anyway, so at least we feel that we made a break from All right. Thank you. from the ancestral heritage. All right. Thank you.

**Bashar:** And now many of your baby boomers are sharing the words not of doctor but of Mr. Spock to their children.

**Participant:** Well, we hope that they learned well. Okay. So, anyway, I just wanted you to know that there was a somewhat of a qualification of that continuing of that chain.

**Bashar:** Oh, we know that. But thank you for your sharing.

**Participant:** All right. Thank you.

---

### Twelfth Questioner

**Bashar:** Number three.

**Participant:** Good day, Bashar. I realize that in the formulation of a question, the answer is already there.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant:** Could you help me in formulating what question am I not asking?

**Bashar:** So when you say is there a question I am not asking, right then no. However in the next moment you may become another you that might have a new question that the other you didn't need to ask. Does that make sense?

**Participant:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** If you understand at every given moment, if you are doing the best you can to view and there any question that needs to be asked. If however in the next instant you formulate a question that is simply a part of being who you are and push that's of where you actually prefer to be in an idealized sense. At the same time there is also the physiological personality choice I prefer.

**Participant:** That's my question.

**Bashar:** Well I asked first you do it. There's a lot of things that I have discovered being here and one of them would be that I'm on a totally different life path.

**Participant:** Oh yes.

**Bashar:** Okay.

**Participant:** Well, in the end, yes. I don't care when it occurred. Why are you being so specifically conditional?

**Bashar:** Was I? I guess I'm trying to figure out...

**Participant:** Will stop trying and you'll do much better.

**Bashar:** I heard that earlier this evening. Yes.

**Participant:** Relax for a moment. Push you to California or not. That's what you did. Okay. And so in that sense, you chose it because you allowed the synchronicity of your life to move you in that direction. Okay. You may have the ability to bifurcate yourself and polarize your consciousness to allow yourself though you Yes. to make it confusing and is the first question and therefore that's what you wanted. Period. Now as you're experiencing the consequences of what you wanted then saying however that your own ability to create what you prefer because if you insist that where you are is not where you wanted to be then what you're actually saying is you're out of control. You don't create your reality and therefore you haven't the clue as to how to create the reality you prefer.

**Participant:** Is that from me? Is it all from or is it external?

**Bashar:** It's all from you. Even if there is a so-called external agent participating, it is always a co-participation because you cannot experience the idea of an external agent unless you create what's being created by you in your reality in order for you even be able to perceive that such a thing may even exist in another reality. Does that make sense?

**Participant:** Yes, that makes sense.

**Bashar:** Therefore, it is up to you to decide what your relationship to that unconsciously instead of being aware of the definitions you had within you that resulted in the choice that came about. Make sense?

**Participant:** Yep. Does that help clarify this sufficiently for you?

**Bashar:** Mhm. Are you sure?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** All right. Pleasant dreams.

---

### Thirteenth Questioner

**Participant:** Has Luna ever been detained?

**Bashar:** Yes. And more specifically accurate in this case detained because the idea really if you define the concept of detainment in your specific it is one language. Detainment is simply more accurately portrayed as someone being kept where they are. And so in that sense the dog is more accurately been detained.

**Participant:** Well, then I want to know if she's ever been abducted.

**Bashar:** No. I had a dream when I was in Hawaii and I think it was her and it was on a ship and it was like red and orange light and she was sick and she acknowledged me being there.

**Participant:** But that is more of the idea of what you would call an astral encounter, not an abduction.

**Participant:** Okay, I have another question.

**Bashar:** No. All right. Are the hybrid children ever present when things are being done to us?

**Participant:** Yes, sometimes. But rarely. Do they know how they're created?

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Participant:** Okay. Does that help you? Two more little things. Oh, all right. Two more little things. Can you tell me Poppy's birthday?

**Bashar:** Define for yourself the idea for a moment of the energy of Poppy. Feel it. Do you feel it?

**Participant:** It's like spring.

**Bashar:** All right. Very good. So you're actually pretty close. Coming up. Coming up.

**Participant:** Yes. End of hours. End of toward the end of... Do I get to pick a number?

**Bashar:** Yes. You get to if you wish. I will tell you how accurate you are.

**Participant:** 27.

**Bashar:** 21. Okay.

**Participant:** And the last thing is what's the connection between the hibiscus flower and Violet and myself?

**Bashar:** It represents for all of you an opening, a vulnerability of self-awareness, an opening into vulnerability which will bring about more self-awareness and a trusting of the natural portion of yourselves as belonging in nature.



### Plane Crash

**Participant:** We recently had an airplane, an A10 in Colorado that disappeared or crashed into the mountain side. There was really no explanation for the aberrancy of the pilot.

**Bashar:** And we will give you none now.

**Participant:** Except for there was rumor that he had a problem with his homosexuality and dealing with...

**Bashar:** We will give you none now. Okay. Anything else?

**Participant:** Yes. How do you differentiate a gray male from female? Is there a way to by looking at it physiologically?

**Bashar:** You feel the energy. The energy will feel to you the idea of feminine or masculine to some degree. There is actually both in many of them at this point. But the idea is that you will feel the energy as it chooses to differentiate itself and represent itself to you more than you will be able to ascertain from what you would call physiological observation. Do you follow?

**Participant:** Yes. Is there a percentage of males to females?

**Bashar:** It depends on the cross-section of which aspect and faction of the grays you are referring to.

**Participant:** Okay. When you discussed the beings from the red planet, the Martians, you said that there were two main factions on the planet. One was in New Mexico and one was down in Mexico. Yes. And you said that one was for the infusion of the culture into our society and one was for more of a processing type plant. Which one is for the processing and what are they processing?

**Bashar:** The idea of what you would call your New Mexico will be more for the concept of processing in the sense of absorption of certain traits of your society that they can then help others of their kind to understand and acclimate. The idea of the other ones which are actually more down in what you would call your South American region will be more for the true infusion of living in your society in an isolated experimental way to see if any adjustments need to be made with the idea of the acclimatization process.

**Participant:** How are they proceeding currently?

**Bashar:** Just fine. Thank you. Let us say if you wish that they are about 77% where they need to be.

**Participant:** Okay. All right. And two questions on health. One in relation to ozone. You commented a while back that in charging the final product of the ozone which was going to be administered, the proper magnetic field would be the frequency of a lodestone. What happens to a gas when it's exposed to a higher magnetic field that would cause it not to be as bio-available to the individual?

**Bashar:** Are you referring specifically to ozone or any gas?

**Participant:** To ozone.

**Bashar:** All right. Depending of course on the output of the magnetic field, different things will happen. Different alignments will occur within a certain bandwidth. You will find that it will become polarized and thus to some degree a literal anathema to the individual. With another bandwidth, it will tap very specifically into certain bodily functions and can be utilized with laser-like accuracy when this is controllable and understood by your society with regard to many different kinds of health applications or even the idea of applications of healing process, even physiologically as well as energetically. There will be many other applications that we will discuss at another time.

**Participant:** And the last question has to do with our teeth and specifically in regenerating some of the decays and regrowing.

**Bashar:** To some degree, some ozone is beneficial for this, but also the idea of the low amperage magnetic fields and especially those that are operating on a frequency that is analogous to what you would call blue light.

**Participant:** As far as the ozone, is that injected directly into the gum?

**Bashar:** No, no, no, no, no, no. This is again simply concentrations in air in parts per million that are equivalent to the same amount you find after what you would call a thunderstorm. So just the general induction of ozone into the system in that breathed in, held in the mouth area but also vibrating or being vibrated by a magnetic field at the same frequency as what you would call blue light. This will activate certain principles within the ozone that will then have the beneficial impact and results.


## Closing

**Bashar:** At this time, we will once again extend to each and every one of you our deep appreciation in allowing our civilization to communicate through this particular window in this way. And at this time our deep abiding eternal and unconditional love to each and every one of you. And again, we remind you it is highly critical to allow yourself when exploring your own unique thread to remember that if for a time you seem to forget that you are connected to the whole, you allow yourself to choose to define the forgetfulness as part of the experience in a positive and beneficial way rather than defining it as somehow being cut off from your source which actually can never occur.

