---
heading: Part 1
title: "Sudden Observable Shift"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1997-03-16
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 135
tags: ['']
---



**BASHAR:** We cannot at this time pinpoint it into any degree of specificity. The idea is that there is a pressure buildup of energy on your planet at this time that should release itself or realize itself in some fashion over the course of what you would call the next three months of your time at the longest. The idea might be that you will find that within the next three months of your time, difficult to say exactly when, there may be certain kinds of very observable changes and shifts that may take place. We don't know if it is in your local, the local to which we are communicating or in other locales on your planet at this time, but it should be relatively observable. These may play themselves out as what you would call a few earthquakes here and there, may play itself out as certain kinds of political or social changes or economic changes. But look to the next three months for an acceleration and an increase in the idea of some very observable, very recognizable and sudden shift that may have a great deal of impact upon a lot of people. We can only at this time sense the buildup in the energy of your civilization, but not any degree of specificity because it has not yet crystallized or congealed through your own consciousness as to exactly in what manner it needs to express itself to allow the energy to be realized and manifested in your reality. But we can sense the buildup. So we will give you what it is possible for us to sense at this time and see what happens together.

We would also at this time like to address another concept, that being that as this energy change and as any energy change or threshold is crossed in your society, occurs as any kind of buildup, as any kind of new momentum, new idea, new shift, new awakening occurs within your collective or individual consciousness. I would like to at this time remind you once again of the importance of understanding physical reality as nothing but a mirror and a reflection of the things that are going on within you, both individually and collectively, and to remember that there is really no such thing as a situation with built-in meaning. We have discussed these things many times, but now we find it is important to remind you, especially in this upcoming buildup, to pay attention and remember these concepts so that you will not automatically ascribe certain kinds of negative meaning to certain circumstances that may occur, but will allow yourself to remember that all situations and circumstances are fundamentally neutral. And that you will supply whatever meaning you wish. And the meaning you supply is what will determine the kind of effect any given circumstance has in your own personal life. Positive meaning in, positive effect out, negative meaning in, negative effect out. This is simply the law of creation. So we remind you to take a moment, no matter what sweeping things may appear to happen, no matter what consequences may seem to be the result of any kind of change that you may perceive in your reality, always take a moment of pause to allow yourself the conscious choice of placing the kind, the quality of meaning to the circumstance that you prefer to apply to it. So that you are not simply reacting automatically in a negative way because you simply have been taught to react that way through your upbringing and thus by acting in a negative way reap only a negative benefit from something that in that sense could actually give you positive repercussions as well. So take that moment and realize that you are the creator of your reality in the sense that physical reality is nothing but a mirror. And I remind you that it is absolutely impossible really for the mirror, if you are smiling, to give you anything back but a smile. And conversely, I remind you that the mirror cannot smile until you do first. So when you allow yourself to take the time to change your energy, your frequency to that which is of a positive construction, then your physical reality, no matter what form it reflects to you in, you will only receive or reap a positive effect from that.

Now, I'm not talking about the idea of glossing things over. I'm not talking about the idea of not recognizing when someone else might be perpetuating or observing or perceiving something to be negative. I am not talking about the idea of feeling emotions come up within you that may be emotions you need to deal with. I am not talking about saying that you do not feel bad if you do. I am talking about the idea that you have the ability to recognize that if you do choose to feel bad, it is a choice. Acknowledge it, own it, then you will be able to redefine it so that you will not necessarily have to experience the negative idea from that point forward. This is not a matter of denial. This is a matter of ownership and transformation. So if something does come up that you still do react to in a negative way, then own it. Be honest about it. Don't hide it. Don't gloss it over and say, "Oh no, that was nothing." And smile while you're actually quaking in your boots. Acknowledge whatever fear you might feel. For only in acknowledging it as fear first, if that's what you're creating, will you then have the ownership and the power to transform your fear into joy because you cannot change what you do not own. So we remind you of these ideas now in this upcoming acceleration and shifting that is taking place in this buildup over the course of your next three months up until what you call your springtime. Of course there will be changes beyond that but this is a particularly auspicious timing, especially that it is centered around what you call your March 15th, your Ides of March, your pivot point, your gateway point of transition and transformation when almost anything can happen. So by all means take advantage of the fact that this is a very shifty time in your energy and ride the wave in a positive direction instead of succumbing to the training and the habits that you have been taught to succumb yourself to. And know that you have the ability to choose the way you will experience your reality by owning all of it in the way that it does happen so that whatever is happening can be used by you and allowed to be transformed into whatever it is you prefer to have happen. That's the way it works.



**QUESTION 1:** how long has Azie been in my life?

**BASHAR:** No comment. 

**QUESTION 1:** Is it possible for me to communicate with him tonight?

**BASHAR:** Okay. Can that take place right now? This moment? Yes.

**QUESTION 1:** In what way will it happen then? As you have already suggested, you can attempt this in what you call first your dream time to strengthen the bond and establish the kinds of links with your own mentality that are appropriate for this kind of communication and conversation.

**QUESTION 1:** Well, I understand that. Wait now to tell you that this being has been with you since childhood. Okay. Um I've been asking a lot for conscious participation or contact and I don't remember my dreams or any contact.

**BASHAR:** That is because you are trying too hard because you need it too much. Relax. Make a game of it. Play with it. Play with him. Understand him as a childhood playmate and it will help you understand the correct approach to retain the information that you need. But if you need the information too desperately, you will expunge it from your memory. Relax and let it go. Do not need it. Just enjoy it. And what needs to remain in your memory will remain. You understand?

**QUESTION 1:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Go into this as if you are playing at night with the being that you have named Azy and see what happens with a more playful, lighter attitude rather than desperately needing to retrieve information for other purposes. You follow. Play, play, play, play. Dream time is playtime. Playtime. Do you understand?

**QUESTION 1:** Yes. Playtime.

**BASHAR:** You will be in the sandbox, the playground, so to speak, euphemistically. You understand?

**QUESTION 1:** Uh-huh. Um, last week I asked what I could get my son Adam as a gift, and you said that I would know on my birthday, but my birthday came and went, and I still don't know what to get him next week.

**BASHAR:** Where has your imagination and creativity gone?

**QUESTION 1:** Well, you know, initially my thought was something that American children can relate to, such as a baseball or a mitt, and then I thought that's so mundane.

**BASHAR:** I see. So, you judged yourself and dismissed it.

**QUESTION 1:** Yes. Thank you. So, I should go with my—

**BASHAR:** Would you like to now reconsider?

**QUESTION 1:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Well, then why do you distrust your initial understandings of things? Why do you put reasons on them that make them seem mundane? Do you not think that a child who has never experienced what a child in your civilization experiences all the time would find the same thing mundane? Do you think a child who has never played baseball would find it mundane?

**QUESTION 1:** No.

**BASHAR:** Do you think that the child who might find it important to find ways to relate to you in your civilization would think a thing of your civilization that is normal to be mundane?

**QUESTION 1:** No.

**BASHAR:** Then why dismiss it? Why not trust your instincts and your imagination more than you do?

**QUESTION 1:** Thank you.

**BASHAR:** You're welcome. I assume that means you got the point.

**QUESTION 1:** Yes. All right. And we've discussed the fact that I'm working on this project about the grays.

**BASHAR:** Yes, we have discussed this.

**QUESTION 1:** And I'm trying to—you are what I am communicating—yes through this project the fact that we need to do some things to save our planet so that we don't follow what they did to their planet. Oh, all right. And I'm not sure at this point if it's more essential that I focus on the deforestation issue or the ocean toxicity.

**BASHAR:** But I have already let you know that I am not functioning as a story consultant.

**QUESTION 1:** No, I understand. I'm not asking you to do that. I'm asking you to elaborate on which issue in terms of pollution is more crucial to this planet at this time.

**BASHAR:** All right. So what you are saying is that the word elaboration is a fancy way of asking me to function as a story consultant.

**QUESTION 1:** No, I'm trying to find out for myself.

**BASHAR:** But find out for yourself. It's your planet. Do you not have the resources and the abilities and the organizations that you can initiate communication with to make your own assessment of this? And in all reality, does one really need to be more important than another?

**QUESTION 1:** Well, they're all important.

**BASHAR:** Well, then begin anywhere you wish.

**QUESTION 1:** Well, what made me question it was in rereading Cosmic Voyage and some other material such as Witnessed. Yes. It seemed as if the grays were focusing a lot on the issue of fish being killed by toxicity. Yes. So, I'm curious as to whether that's an issue that is important to their planet.

**BASHAR:** Um, how does that relate to their planet in the sense that do they survive mostly on fish?

**QUESTION 1:** No.

**BASHAR:** To their world, it has in that sense no relevance. To your world, it does. And we have already told you many times past that large sections of your own ocean are already dead. You figure it out. Does that seem important to you?

**QUESTION 1:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Well, then does that answer your question?

**QUESTION 1:** Yes, it does. And just briefly, if we could discuss the concept of expectations.

**BASHAR:** Go right ahead.

**QUESTION 1:** I'm dealing with the concept of how not to have them and how to live to my fullest without having expectations about what I expect from other people.

**BASHAR:** Oh, all right. And how are you doing with this concept?

**QUESTION 1:** I think I'm growing.

**BASHAR:** Yes, of course.

**QUESTION 1:** That was safe.

**BASHAR:** Yes, but I'm still dealing with some issues of pain.

**QUESTION 1:** Oh, all right. Okay. And so I was wondering if you had some guidance for me in that area.

**BASHAR:** Only to remind you once again that everything comes down to the idea of definition, motivation based on the idea of pleasure and pain and choice. You make your choices to behave the way you behave, to react or respond the way that you do, to do the things you choose to do based on your motivations which are always based only on either going toward more pleasure or what you perceive to be more pleasurable, or going away from pain or what you perceive to be more painful. And the reason that you perceive this or that to be more pleasurable, more painful is because of the definitions you have been taught. So it is all simply a matter of choice, motivation, definition. Choices based on motivation based on pleasure, pain, based on your definition of what contains more pleasure and less pain. Not that it necessarily does, but your definition of what does. Understand?

**QUESTION 1:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** So the pain you are feeling in that sense all has to do with the definitions you have been taught of yourself most of all because all of that pain starts with lack of self-worth ideas and issues of lack of self-worth and then projecting and extrapolating that concept of lack of self-worth on all the things that happen in your life around you. So start with your definitions, why you are defining certain things, why you think you need certain things in order to be whole, to be complete, to be yourself. And when you get a handle on what those definitions are and change them, you will change your motivations, which will change your choices automatically. Remember that there are only two reasons that you are motivated to do anything. And again, it is because of what you perceive to be more pleasurable and less painful. What you perceive to be, what you define to be more pleasurable is what you go toward. What you define to be more painful is what you move away from. Understand?

**QUESTION 1:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Does this help?

**QUESTION 1:** Yes. Thank you very much.

**BASHAR:** Thank you. Number two.

---

**QUESTION 2:** Hello, Bashar. And are you a good day? Um, I was wondering if we could talk a little bit about my physical health and healing.

**BASHAR:** You go right ahead.

**QUESTION 2:** Um, I've had asthma since I was a young child and I'm getting to a point right now where I feel healthier than I've ever felt.

**BASHAR:** Yes.

**QUESTION 2:** And I'm very excited about this and I'm going to start decreasing the medication that I take this week.

**BASHAR:** All right.

**QUESTION 2:** And I was interested about the concept of extraterrestrials aiding in people's healing. And I was wondering if that has been happening for me.

**BASHAR:** Only in the sense for you that they are in your interactions reflecting to you certain concepts and principles that you yourself are clever enough to apply to your own consciousness and heal yourself with. There has been no direct healing in that sense as you may mean it. But only in that you are exposed to ideas that you are willing to apply.

**QUESTION 2:** Mhm. Okay. You understand?

**QUESTION 2:** Yes. Yes.

**BASHAR:** What in your early life were the issues that you had with the idea of self-expression?

**QUESTION 2:** I didn't express myself.

**BASHAR:** Yes. Why not? How were you taught not to in that sense?

**QUESTION 2:** Well, I was taught to speak when spoken to as a child.

**BASHAR:** Yes. And most of the individuals on your planet, not all, but most of the individuals on your planet that experience what you call the condition of asthma are dealing with self-expression issues. You understand?

**QUESTION 2:** Yeah. Yeah.

**BASHAR:** So in that you are now learning to be more yourself and that it is all right to express who it is you are. You will find of course your asthma and any other conditions that are reflective of that automatically diminishing as you allow your energy to be more whole and as you allow yourself to be capable of being sustained by yourself in that sense. Oxygenating yourself, supporting yourself, breathing life into who you are is what will diminish any shortness of breath. You follow.

**QUESTION 2:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Take a deep breath now.

**QUESTION 2:** Oh, yes.

**QUESTION 2:** Um, I find it really interesting. I realized just a few years ago that my last name is pronounced air.

**BASHAR:** Nice.

**QUESTION 2:** And so I really feel like I was incarnated this time to overcome this.

**BASHAR:** All right. Um, remember what is the first thing you do when tension hits? When stress fills your life?

**QUESTION 2:** Hold my breath.

**BASHAR:** Yes, all of you. That's the first thing you do. Therefore, what's the first thing you need to do to go through the tension?

**QUESTION 2:** Breathe.

**BASHAR:** Breathe. Yes. Breath will get you farther than you think.

**QUESTION 2:** Mhm. Okay. Thank you.

**BASHAR:** Is this helping you?

**QUESTION 2:** Yes, very much.

**BASHAR:** All right. Anything else?

**QUESTION 2:** Yes. Um, I've been having a lot of fun with my dream time.

**BASHAR:** Oh, all right.

**QUESTION 2:** I was wondering if you could perhaps you could teach a class on it.

**BASHAR:** Oh, that would be fun.

**QUESTION 2:** I am not being facetious.

**BASHAR:** I'm sure you're not. I am picking up on your energy and your capabilities.

**QUESTION 2:** Oh, great. Well, thank you.

**BASHAR:** Is this something that would excite you?

**QUESTION 2:** Oh, yes. I think so.

**BASHAR:** Oh, all right. I think so. Then we will leave it up to your own creative imagination as to exactly how to go about doing this. But it is something that you can do. Talk about dreams. Very, very familiar are you with the idea of dream energy. If you will simply sit down and give your mind a little organization in this direction, you will find yourself coming up with lots of information you can share if that's something that excites you.

**QUESTION 2:** Great. Thank you. I'll think about that.

**BASHAR:** Go right ahead and think about it.

**QUESTION 2:** Um, I had a wonderful dream last week with April and all right we were she was sitting on a log at the beach and with her was this creature and I don't know how to explain this creature, he looked a little bit like a human but he had six fingers and he was kind of short and a little bit heavy very sweet and roly poly kind of funny.

**BASHAR:** Funny roly poly. All right yes understood.

**QUESTION 2:** And I kind of thought of him in my mind as a wood or a nature nymph or something like that.

**BASHAR:** That's all right.

**QUESTION 2:** And I walked by and started interacting with them and I don't remember very much about it, but that is all right.

**BASHAR:** Um, what do you remember?

**QUESTION 2:** I remember that he was very sweet and he was talking with us and maybe teaching us or I remember seeing a little nest of birds nearby and I was very protective of these little baby birds.

**BASHAR:** Because as you attempted to be protective of yourself as a child.

**QUESTION 2:** Yes. Oh, okay. Yeah, there were a lot of people walking by and I really felt like I needed to shelter these birds.

**BASHAR:** Yes, you are beginning to recreate with help and guidance. Yes, but you are beginning to recreate and establish a foundation of safety for yourself and what you would call your inner child modality to in a sense raise yourself again the way that you would wish you had been raised. You understand?

**QUESTION 2:** Yes, little bird. Yes. Yes, I sure do.

**BASHAR:** All right.

**QUESTION 2:** Could you explain to me a little bit about who this character was that we were with?

**BASHAR:** In a sense it was a reflection of a guide and also a reflection of a portion of your own archetypal self. That portion that is connected to the concept of nature and support and sustenance and that portion that knows that everything is all right. Your woly playful self. You understand? But also it was in a sense enhanced and triggered by guidance from your guides.

**QUESTION 2:** Okay. Okay. Does that help you?

**QUESTION 2:** Uh-huh. Yes, it does.

**BASHAR:** All right. You can be next then you. Are you finished?

**QUESTION 2:** I know. Go ahead. Thank you. Thank you.

---

**QUESTION 3:** Um, I had some dreams last night. I don't want to go into a lot of detail about them, but they had to do with me performing surgery on one time was a cat and one time was a chicken. And I don't understand where this came from.

**BASHAR:** Except came from you, of course. What does the cat symbolize to you beyond the idea of the general symbol that the cat on your planet has of being that being, that entity, that animal, that consciousness that bridges realities, that sees into different dimensions, that sees beyond what humans think of as the normal spectrum of reality? Does that give you any clue?

**QUESTION 3:** Yeah, it does.

**BASHAR:** And what does the other animal, the chicken, represent to you?

**QUESTION 3:** Oh, well, you seem to have a lot of representation in the bird family.

**QUESTION 3:** I do. And I've been—I'm not a vegetarian, but whenever I've been eating chicken lately, I just feel sick and I feel like I really need to stop eating chicken.

**BASHAR:** That is up to you. You must always pay attention to your body consciousness. It will tell you what you need.

**QUESTION 3:** Okay. Okay.

**BASHAR:** Well, I'm so drawn to cats. I have—

**BASHAR:** Why? Why?

**QUESTION 3:** I guess I look in their eyes and I go to other places and I relate to them.

**BASHAR:** Yes. All right.

**QUESTION 3:** And so performing surgery on this animal is an exemplification and a symbolization of helping them, of healing them, and healing that portion of yourself that can see farther than you have been allowed to see before. You understand?

**QUESTION 3:** Yes. Does this help very much.

**BASHAR:** Thank you so much, Bashar.

**BASHAR:** As you continue, please be abundant with yourself. Do not be cheap. Okay. Cheap. Thank you.

**QUESTION 3:** Thank you. Next.

---

**QUESTION 4:** Evening, Bashar.

**BASHAR:** And to you. Good day.

**QUESTION 4:** I have a couple of things I want to discuss with you. Um, I got a juicer and I've been doing like a lot of vegetable and fruit juices.

**BASHAR:** Seems like I'm detoxing quite a bit. Yes.

**QUESTION 4:** And I'm really having a good time with it.

**BASHAR:** Oh, it's so much fun.

**QUESTION 4:** You know, before I was trying to eat like fresh fruits and vegetables. We've talked about this on and on, but since I got my juicer, I'm like having a lot of fun.

**BASHAR:** Thank you for allowing yourself to find an exciting way to do this.

**QUESTION 4:** Yes. I want to know if you could recommend, you know, like scanning my energy or whatever, any kind of juices or combinations of juices.

**BASHAR:** No. Okay. We will leave this up to your intuition for now so that you can have more fun.

**QUESTION 4:** Okay. Um, I have a little concern about my two boys, too.

**BASHAR:** Uh, yes. What is your little concern?

**QUESTION 4:** Well, you know, I'm not a cook and they grow.

**BASHAR:** One does not necessarily need to be to make juice. Well, absolutely.

**QUESTION 4:** Now, one of them I'm giving like apple juice and strawberry juice. But the other one doesn't live with me, but he comes home a lot and he'll be here for the summer.

**BASHAR:** And what do you mean when you say you are not a cook?

**QUESTION 4:** Well, I brought them up on junk food basically because I'm not, you know, the things that I cook they never liked and it's just not a priority.

**BASHAR:** What would you prefer to cook if anything at all? Not that you have to, but if you do, what would you prefer to cook?

**QUESTION 4:** Nothing.

**BASHAR:** Are you sure that is a preference? Or is it only that you feel it is something that you lack the ability to do? Or that is not representative of a preference if it is coming from that direction.

**QUESTION 4:** I don't think it's a lack. I think it's just not an interest.

**BASHAR:** All right. But I'm concerned.

**QUESTION 4:** Then you eat your food raw, whatever it may be. Is that what you are saying? Or you have someone else cook it for you.

**BASHAR:** Well, that would be nice. But I'm concerned about my two boys that they don't have the proper nutrition. And I'm wondering if there's anything you can see that I might be able to give them or suggest to them.

**BASHAR:** Are you capable of exploring the idea of what you would deem to be proper nutrition?

**QUESTION 4:** Well, I have explored it for ages and ages and it's like there's so many different belief systems on our planet and I don't know, you know, some people say this is good and this isn't good.

**BASHAR:** Always rule of thumb as you say, start simple. Go from there. Always start with the simplest idea. What you would call the natural, raw, unprocessed, uncooked, largely water-bearing foods. Start there because that is indicative of the fact that you are natural, water-bearing and uncooked. You understand?

**QUESTION 4:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** So start there. Then build upon that slowly if necessary and pay attention and teach them to pay attention to body consciousness. Sometimes the body will need certain things, but always start with the natural things. Go from there. At least make an attempt to stay as close to the natural as possible. What you call non-toxic, organic, raw, if at all possible. If you're going to cook, cook as little as possible, the things that you cook, such as the fresh vegetables, so on and so forth. If your body consciousness tells you that meat is necessary, again, make it as clean and natural as you possibly can until it is simply just enough that the body feels satisfied. Understand and research the balance of nutrients and minerals that are required by the body on your planet. And you will understand in general what is needed and also the understanding that a few smaller meals during the course of the day are more easily digested by your system than two or three large meals. You understand?

**QUESTION 4:** I'm noticing that I'm just not digesting things like I used to before. I mean, it's almost maybe my body is telling me, um, no, you know, we're going to get to like the natural things.

**BASHAR:** This may be your way. Yes, it may be one way, but fewer things in more meals is more natural. Remember the idea in general that in essence you are foragers. You follow?

**QUESTION 4:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** So, you eat a little bit here and then you move on and a little bit here, a little bit here, a little bit there. Yes. And this throughout the day will actually keep you far more energized than eating several big meals. You understand?

**QUESTION 4:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** And of course, pay attention to the idea that whatever your natural biological cycle of high energy, low energy is, attempt to allow yourself to regulate the idea of the meals in a natural way so that you are not necessarily eating large quantities of food before your cycle goes down. So that in that sense you are not needing to use energy to digest when you need to use the energy for rest in that sense. You understand?

**QUESTION 4:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** So just pay attention to these things in a natural way. They are really quite obvious and observable. If you would simply allow yourself to look at life in a natural way, it'll be easier to understand these things and it will not be a confusing mystery. You follow?

**QUESTION 4:** Yes. The other thing is I've been talking to you about the sitcom that I want to be in and I found the one I want to be in.

**BASHAR:** Oh, all right. And go be in it.

**QUESTION 4:** Well, I'm getting closer and closer and it's exciting.

**BASHAR:** I'm thinking don't make it a goal. Don't make it an expectation. Remember that you do what you do, all of you, because you have no other choice because that's the thing that excites you the most. The doing of whatever it is you're doing at any given moment. Not that you have to have it work out this way or that, but whatever it is you're focused on, you are focused on. And whatever it is you're doing at the moment, you're doing at the moment because there is no other choice of anything else for you to do, no other way for you to behave. And that in and of itself is its own reward. That paradoxically and automatically is allowing every—Jill about dreams having fun, more like having fun going towards this, you know, having a good time and enjoying going towards yes, but understanding that going towards it is in and of itself where you are right now and it's not really that you're going towards anything. It is simply the apparentness of going towards something that is the act in and of itself right now. That is what you need to focus on as your excitement. Do you understand?

**QUESTION 4:** Sort of. Well, I want to make a comment about that.

**BASHAR:** Oh, go right ahead.

**QUESTION 4:** I'm thinking that show or if maybe they're writing a new show, something better. I'm leaving an opening, but I really like that show and I was thinking the other day like they were up for an award at the Screen Actors Guild Award and they didn't get it and it really crushed me.

**BASHAR:** Why did you allow yourself to be crushed by that?

**QUESTION 4:** Because I wanted them to get the award, you know.

**BASHAR:** Well, anyway, the thing is I felt like— So, don't go on to another subject. Okay, you have just said a mouthful. Back up. Why did you choose to be crushed by that? Why did you choose to experience that event that way? Why did you give it the meaning you gave it? You chose to. It wasn't built in.

**QUESTION 4:** Okay, I got it. Okay, so the thing is I could be excited. They don't need the award. I mean, I could just— I understand.

**BASHAR:** Focus on the elements of any situation that are the elements that are representative of your excitement. And whatever it is you allow yourself to perceive, allow yourself to understand that it will always only work to your benefit if you choose to perceive it that way, regardless of what it may reflect or mean to someone else. So always, like you were talking earlier, see it in the right way because I know I felt if this show goes off the air, I'll be devastated and I won't want to live.

**QUESTION 4:** No, that's what you're going for.

**BASHAR:** Sounds like an interesting plot in and of itself.

**QUESTION 4:** No, but because remember what you said—if there's nothing else like no other choice. No other choice. I feel that way. It's like no—

**BASHAR:** You are misinterpreting this understanding. It is that you are making that thing a specific needful choice. That's not what we are saying. What we are saying is at any given moment whatever is available to you as the thing that contains the highest excitement, whatever that may be, not that it has to be this thing or it's nothing, whatever that thing at any given moment may be. In other words, if this show no longer exists, something else will be representative of your highest joy. Something else will take its place. Don't you understand that?

**QUESTION 4:** Yes, I do.

**BASHAR:** Then that is the thing that there is no other choice about but to act upon whatever it is because it isn't what it is. It's that it's the most exciting thing that's important, not what it is. You're making it an insistence that it has to be this thing. Must be the most exciting thing. That's not what we're saying. We are saying whatever is the most exciting thing that's in your life at any given moment, that's the thing that there is no other choice but to act upon. Not that you insist it must be a certain thing. You understand?

**QUESTION 4:** Yes, I do. Sometimes when I'm home, you know, when I'm not working or something, I tend to get discouraged.

**BASHAR:** No, you do not tend to get discouraged. You choose to get discouraged. To be discouraged. All right. Now, why would you want to give your courage away?

**QUESTION 4:** Um, you are discouraging yourself.

**BASHAR:** Habit of thought.

**QUESTION 4:** I beg your pardon. You know that won't work with us anymore.

**BASHAR:** All right. Um, what is a habit?

**QUESTION 4:** Something that when you know you're doing it, you can choose to do it or not.

**BASHAR:** What is a habit? A habit is something you don't know that you're doing. Thank you. So, when you know you're doing it, you choose to. It's a choice. I choose to do it because maybe I'm Jewish and I like to suffer.

**QUESTION 4:** You may enjoy suffering, but if that is, then own it and enjoy it.

**BASHAR:** No, I really don't. I don't.

**QUESTION 4:** Well, if you say so. However, I point out that if you do, you obviously at least for that moment really do.

**BASHAR:** Well, you know, it's like the symbol.

**QUESTION 4:** See, that's the point. Don't be in denial. Okay. I choose to do it because choosing to suffer. Yes. Own and acknowledge that obviously at least at that moment for whatever reason you do enjoy choosing to suffer because only by acknowledging that that's what you're choosing will you actually then be capable of choosing something else. As long as you deny what is right in front of your face, you will not be able to change it. So if you do choose to suffer, own and acknowledge that you made that choice. And if it's a choice, obviously what that actually means is that's what you wanted at that moment for some reason. Find out what that reason is. And you may find another reason to choose something else. But by all means, don't deny that you obviously gave yourself enough of a reason to choose to do that. Otherwise, you will have nothing to change. You'll have nothing to work with if you don't own the fact that you gave yourself a reason to make that choice. You follow this?

**QUESTION 4:** I understand 100%. I want to make one—see about that. Okay, we'll see. I want to make one more comment.

**BASHAR:** Yes. What's your hurry?

**QUESTION 4:** Well, what's your hurry?

**BASHAR:** Oh, okay.

**QUESTION 4:** I was just thinking you are always in a hurry to get somewhere other than where you are.

**BASHAR:** Okay, I'll just be here enjoy myself. Take up the whole evening. Both tapes.

**QUESTION 4:** No. Okay, I understand. Yeah. Does this help you?

**BASHAR:** Yes, I would. Okay. All right. Okay. I have Can I— Yes. Go ahead. Just relax. Okay.

---

**QUESTION 5:** I think there's something—for instance when I'm driving. I live on a street that the cops sit and wait to give tickets, but it's up in the hills. So, a lot of people don't realize the reason that I'm driving slowly is because the cops are waiting to give tickets because you can go fast. Do you mean driving slowly or driving what you call the speed limit?

**BASHAR:** That's acceptable. Yes. Speed limit and what's enjoyable to me? But the thing is when people get on my tail and they flash their—the lights in my rearview mirror. I turn the mirrors. But I am I make the choice to be bugged by that.

**QUESTION 5:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** But I trying—I am making why do you make the choice to be as you say bugged by that. Okay. Now that's the thing I'm talking about by other things distracting me off my course.

**QUESTION 5:** It seems like you choose those things. Obviously it's not a distraction. They're choices. But it seems that that's so much more powerful than because those blinding lights you are motivated to go in those directions because of your definition. Of course they seem powerful because that's the definition you have and therefore that's the motivation you have and therefore that's the choice you make. Of course it's going to be powerful if your motivations and your definitions are lined up. Of course you're going to make those choices and it's going to seem powerful. But that's the only reason it seems powerful is because your definition and your motivation is lined up in that direction to make that kind of a choice. It's no other reason that it's powerful. But it is powerful if you line those things up. Yes, of course. But understand it's a choice and you will diffuse the idea that they have innate power. They have no innate power. You give them the power because obviously for some reason that's the way you want to go. Okay? It's not a distraction. You're choosing to go that way for your own reasons. Find out what they are and don't treat it as a distraction. And you see, calling something like that a distraction is another way of saying that you're in denial about the fact that you're choosing to go in this direction. Saying it's a distraction says, "Oh, this has nothing to do with what I really want, but obviously that's what you want. You're choosing it. So, you're in denial of what you're choosing. So, don't treat it as a distraction. Don't define it as a distraction. You choose to be bugged. It's not a distraction. You chose to be bugged. Period. Own it. Be honest. Then play with it. Find out why you chose to be bugged. Don't say, 'Oh, that's just a distraction.' Now, back to my regularly scheduled program. Find out why that is your program. Find out why that is your regularly scheduled program right there. Yes, it is. So, find out why and don't define it as a distraction. That's exactly where you need to be. Exactly.

**QUESTION 5:** And that is like it's almost like a symbol of the things that happen at home where I choose to get discouraged. It's like that whole one. It's all the same.

**BASHAR:** Yes. And that's what I need to look at and that's what I will look at.

**QUESTION 5:** And thank you very much. Number two.

---

**QUESTION 6:** Number two. You can be next. Hi.

**BASHAR:** And to you. Good day.

**QUESTION 6:** First time I've ever been here.

**BASHAR:** Oh. All right then. This is the first time our civilization is communicated with you as well.

**QUESTION 6:** Thank you. Yes. I seem to be ill.

**BASHAR:** You seem to be ill. I am ill with what?

**QUESTION 6:** Well, I was diagnosed with narcolepsy. Yes. And I also have radiation poisoning and I don't know why.

**BASHAR:** And you have been diagnosed with radiation poisoning. Right. All right. And you have no recollection of how this could have occurred. Is what you are saying?

**QUESTION 6:** Right.

**BASHAR:** All right. And I also have three separate viruses.

**QUESTION 6:** And is this an extrapolation or something actually observed within your system?

**BASHAR:** This was I guess an extrapolation. It was found on tests.

**QUESTION 6:** Yes. And tests of what nature?

**BASHAR:** Um, blood tests.

**QUESTION 6:** Yes. Okay. To determine what?

**BASHAR:** Whether I had any active viruses in my body.

**QUESTION 6:** And you are suggesting that they determined that you did. Yes. The nature of these tests being specifically that they are looking for what?

**BASHAR:** Um, well just in general anything that's wrong with me I guess, specific viruses what I have is—

**QUESTION 6:** What we are saying is that in general you will find that most of the tests of that nature on your planet are tests that look for what you would call certain antibody factors in your blood.

**BASHAR:** Exactly. You're right. But if you have the antibodies, then how is the virus still active?

**QUESTION 6:** Uh, is that a good question?

**BASHAR:** Yeah, that's a good question. I can't explain that. I— All right. Um, I guess there was a time when I probably could, but right now I'm kind of on the spot and I'm not able to.

**QUESTION 6:** Oh, all right. Would you like to move over? I just want to know if you can tell me if I'm going to get better.

**BASHAR:** How is your diet right now?

**QUESTION 6:** Um, well, I'm trying to eat more vegetables.

**BASHAR:** Trying. Yeah. You're having difficulty doing this.

**QUESTION 6:** I don't like them.

**BASHAR:** I see. Interesting. Because I was going to recommend that you need to eat more green beans and green peas, the long kind. Yeah. You understand?

**QUESTION 6:** Yeah.

**BASHAR:** This will help you, right? Quite a bit.

**QUESTION 6:** Uhhuh.

**BASHAR:** Now, what is it about them you do not like?

**QUESTION 6:** Well, I guess I have a problem a little bit. Like the last lady, I don't really enjoy cooking.

**BASHAR:** You do not have to cook them to eat them. Yeah, that's true. Do you like them when you don't have to cook them?

**QUESTION 6:** Yeah, I actually do. I like them raw.

**BASHAR:** Oh, well then, very good. By all means, allow yourself to begin ingesting more of what you would call the raw green beans. You follow?

**QUESTION 6:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Eat those. They will help you with the radiation and other things. One moment. How is your water intake on a daily basis?

**QUESTION 6:** On a daily basis, I probably not as good as it should be.

**BASHAR:** What is the amount that you typically consume on a daily basis if you can give a volume to it?

**QUESTION 6:** Oh, maybe four or five glasses of water.

**BASHAR:** Allow yourself to drink at least a quart and a half a day. Okay? Okay. You follow?

**QUESTION 6:** Yeah.

**BASHAR:** A quart and a half. Do you understand the measurement?

**QUESTION 6:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** All right. You need to flush toxins from the system. You need to give your body what it needs to do this. You follow?

**QUESTION 6:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** One moment. Have you in your own intuition attracted yourself to what you might call an individual who has the capability to the degree that you trust of what you would call energy healing?

**QUESTION 6:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Is this recent?

**QUESTION 6:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Do you feel that you do trust this individual's abilities?

**QUESTION 6:** Yes, she's in Santa Barbara and I haven't been able to get back to her. Have you had any sessions at all?

**BASHAR:** Yes, I've had five sessions with her.

**QUESTION 6:** And how do they make you feel?

**BASHAR:** Much better.

**QUESTION 6:** Then I would suggest that you accelerate this for this is what you need also. All right. All right. Make the time.

**BASHAR:** Okay. What else have you got to do?

**QUESTION 6:** This is true. Thank you. I want to get back to work again.

**BASHAR:** And that would be what? Would it be the kind of work that would be an expression of your joy and creativity? Or would it simply be that which gets you through the day?

**QUESTION 6:** No, it's an expression of my joy and creativity. And that would be what?

**BASHAR:** I'm a metal smith.

**QUESTION 6:** A metal smith. All right. Are you certain that you are taking appropriate precautions to prevent toxic metal poisoning in your system?

**BASHAR:** No.

**QUESTION 6:** This is another big issue that definitely I feel I have been very cavalier and not protecting myself which is going to change.

**BASHAR:** Thank you. Yes, these things do rub off you know. I know I found out and they do penetrate you know so yes be nice to yourself.

**QUESTION 6:** Okay. May I ask you something else?

**BASHAR:** I suppose you can. Let's see.

**QUESTION 6:** I'm wondering if the abduction experiences that I remember are really true or whether they're something that have just been made up on my own.

**BASHAR:** For how long do you imagine you have been having these experiences?

**QUESTION 6:** Well, I have memories that are from my childhood.

**BASHAR:** Yes. And what do you remember?

**QUESTION 6:** I remember beings being in my room.

**BASHAR:** Yes. Do you have instances where you remember being under liquid and breathing under liquid?

**QUESTION 6:** Wow. Yeah. That triggers some kind of memory.

**BASHAR:** Yes. For me? Yes. Yes. You're having contact.

**QUESTION 6:** Am I still?

**BASHAR:** Yes. Now, is there possibility that I could be conscious and remember this?

**QUESTION 6:** Yes. The more you detoxify yourself, the easier it will be to be conscious of some of these experiences. But there are other things that you may need to do as well. How do you feel about the idea of meditation?

**BASHAR:** I like it. I've done it before.

**QUESTION 6:** All right. I would suggest that you may want to accelerate that along with the energy healings. These will help to center and align your magnetic fields and will help you gain more conscious ability to interact on higher dimensional levels in a more aware state. You follow?

**BASHAR:** Yes.

**QUESTION 6:** Among other things of course. Now, how do you feel about these interactions that they're right?

**BASHAR:** Oh, you mean the interactions with the beings you're talking about? Yes.

**QUESTION 6:** Uh, you know, I feel good about it. I really do. In fact, I'm eager to have more knowledge.

**BASHAR:** All right. One moment. One moment. Do you have any kind of a special box?

**QUESTION 6:** That you bought, you made—some kind of a special little storage box in which you keep things that are precious to you, important to you.

**BASHAR:** Yes. Describe it.

**QUESTION 6:** Well, I have—

**BASHAR:** Is it made of metal?

**QUESTION 6:** Actually, yes, I do have a silver box.

**BASHAR:** Silver box. What is in the silver box?

**QUESTION 6:** Right now, there's just silver coins in it.

**BASHAR:** Silver coins. What has been in it?

**QUESTION 6:** I'm not certain.

**BASHAR:** I'll ask it this way. If you were living in what you would call a fairy tale or a fantasy, what would be in it?

**QUESTION 6:** Something I could eat that would make me perfectly well.

**BASHAR:** And beyond that, what would be in it? What would be the greatest treasure you would want to put in the box?

**QUESTION 6:** Love. Love.

**BASHAR:** Silver, gleaming, vibrant, scintillating, warm, passionate love. All love. All right, then go home. I suggest that you take yourself through an exercise where you do just that. You understand?

**QUESTION 6:** Okay.

**BASHAR:** And also at the same time as you put love in the box, allow yourself to understand that you are symbolically giving yourself that love. Giving yourself permission to have all that love unconditionally. Unconditionally from the infinite to you, just yours, just for you in that box of silver. You understand?

**QUESTION 6:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** See what happens when you do this. You will find that there may be a profound shift within your energy almost immediately. You follow?

**QUESTION 6:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Does this help you?

**QUESTION 6:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Where's my cat?

**QUESTION 6:** One of my cats is gone.

**BASHAR:** For how long?

**QUESTION 6:** About 3 days.

**BASHAR:** Name of animal?

**QUESTION 6:** Mona.

**BASHAR:** Mona. In what area on your planet do you reside?

**QUESTION 6:** I live in Silmar.

**BASHAR:** Let us take this for now a step at a time with love in the box as a gesture of giving this to yourself. See if within a week's time of doing this, there is not some news of the cat. No matter what the news may be, understand it is a reflection of the idea of time for shifts and changes. All right?

**QUESTION 6:** Okay.

**BASHAR:** And pleasant dreams to you.

**QUESTION 6:** Thank you.

**BASHAR:** Thank you. You will have help in your dreams as well.

**QUESTION 6:** Thank you. Thank you, male.

**BASHAR:** Good day.

**QUESTION 6:** Good day to you. Thank you for being here.

**BASHAR:** I am not there, but thank you for the sentiment.

---

**QUESTION 7:** Um, why am I attracting witches?

**BASHAR:** Which witches are you attracting?

**QUESTION 7:** It's just it just seems like I'm attracting people into my life that have either manipulative intentions and also are very—and other kinds of people that are equally powerful and wonderful to be with that I feel that I've been with before.

**BASHAR:** Are you saying that you are seeing more extremes of polarity in your life?

**QUESTION 7:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Is that what you are essentially saying?

**QUESTION 7:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Good. Congratulations. The more one expands, the more one grows and the more one integrates, the more extremes, dichotomies, polarities and paradoxes one will see in their life. Because the more you expand, the more you realize that you contain everything—dark and light. It does not have to be seen as a symbol that the attraction of more extreme expressions of dark necessarily means that you yourself are expressing dark, but that it is an expression that as you expand and know that you contain and now can see and allow everything to be equal, you will as a gesture and an expression of that equality. Allow yourself to become more aware of not only more light but of the possibility of more dark. Not that you have to choose it, not that it has to affect you in a negative way. Make sense? So it is a symptom of acceleration to attract more light and dark. You now simply always have the opportunity to stay squarely in the center of yourself and thus once it has been attracted choose with whom you prefer to interact. Understand?

**QUESTION 7:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Second question?

**QUESTION 7:** Why am I having a colorful time relocating from my current location?

**BASHAR:** Because you like color. Where is it you are? Where is it you wish to be on your planet?

**QUESTION 7:** Where I am is 30 miles south of San Francisco.

**BASHAR:** All right. And where do you wish to locate to?

**QUESTION 7:** You know, if I had the answer to that question, I would feel lighter.

**BASHAR:** Are you saying thus that you are making an attempt to relocate without a location to relocate to?

**QUESTION 7:** No, it's Los Angeles. It is Los Angeles that I intend to relocate to.

**BASHAR:** Are you certain that that area is representative of the most exciting area you can imagine living in on your planet?

**QUESTION 7:** Absolutely not.

**BASHAR:** Then that is the reason for your difficulty. If you are accelerating and acceleration means only aligning with the energy of your true self which is experienced in your reality as the feeling you call excitement, joy, creativity, love and you say that you are attempting to go somewhere that's not in alignment with that energy. Why should you be surprised that you would have difficulty going there? That would be like saying that you have a compass and that you have a magnet and you are wondering why you cannot make the compass needle point off to the side. You understand? Why would you want to go somewhere that is not representative of your joy? Why would you want to be somewhere that is not magnetically aligned with your truth? And to finish the question, where would be a place that is more representative of your joy? If you could be anywhere and if you could answer this question without cluttering it with conditionality—"I can't be there because I can't be there because I can't be there because"—and so forth. If you could be anywhere, where would you rather be?

**QUESTION 7:** I can be anywhere I choose. I have no clutter. I have total choice. The question, if you are within your joy right now, then what kind of location on your planet is more representative of that joy? Is there a specific location that stands out or is where you already are representative of your highest joy?

**BASHAR:** The reason Los Angeles is because my career is in the motion picture industry. Yes. Producing films.

**QUESTION 7:** So, you're saying that that is your joy? Producing films and developing films is my joy.

**BASHAR:** All right. I will ask you several different things now. Number one, are you saying that for some reason you cannot do the thing you love to do in another location other than Los Angeles? Is that the assumption you have made?

**QUESTION 7:** Correct.

**BASHAR:** Question two. Are you through your own definitions not allowing Los Angeles to be as exciting as it could be? In other words, are you making Los Angeles actually seem unexciting rather than it actually not being representative of your frequency of truth?

**QUESTION 7:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Well, then why are you doing that? I mean, just shift the frequency. In other words, use your imagination to allow yourself to know that whatever it is that really excites you the most will bring with it as a complete kit all the methodologies and pathways and opportunities that are representative of your joy. You don't have to go about doing it in the way that is not representative of your excitement no matter where you are. And you don't have to be in a place that's truly not representative of your excitement if it isn't in order to do whatever it is that does excite you. So, A) you have to realize that you don't necessarily have to be in a place that doesn't excite you to do the thing that excites you. In fact, by being in a place that doesn't excite you, you won't be able to do the thing that excites you because it's all part of the same formula. B) you have to first check in with yourself to make sure that if something doesn't seem to be the thing that excites you the most, that it isn't exciting because you have to check in to make sure you are not coloring it to seem unexciting when it could be as opposed to it really not being aligned with your excitement. Once you have cleared those things up by allowing yourself to know that you can allow it to happen in the most exciting way regardless of where you are, then perhaps you will take the judgment off of the idea of going to that city. Or you will allow yourself to realize that it really isn't representative of your joy and you can do whatever it is you need to do wherever it is you really want to be. It's up to you to make this determination, but it's a simple determination to make once you unclutter the definitions you have about where you think you need to be and why you think you need or don't need to be there. Because many individuals will have certain ideas that have been planted in their head about this, that or the other thing about this place or that place or this way of doing things that they think, well, that's the only way it can be done and that's what's not exciting to me. So, being there is not exciting. But that doesn't necessarily mean that that's true. You can always be an exception to the rule. In fact, all of you are if you'd only allow yourself to be more often. So, is this helping clarify the issue at all?

**QUESTION 7:** Absolutely. The place that comes to mind and I've never visited there physically.

**BASHAR:** Yes. So, don't make excuses, just say it.

**QUESTION 7:** Australia.

**BASHAR:** All right. You know that there is in your terms a very vast and fast growing film industry in that area on your planet. What city you'll find out. You can start with what you call Sydney and work your way from there and see what—but it is a very rapid industry in that area on your planet, rapidly growing. But again make the determination as to whether or not that really is the true excitement. Make sure you're not just making Los Angeles seem unexciting, but when you determine if it really is not the place, then by all means take, as soon as you have determined what is representative of your joy, clearly take an action in that direction to the best of your ability. Otherwise, you are denying your own self, your own truth, your own joy, and your own ability to allow reality to show you that that's who you are. Does that make sense?

**QUESTION 7:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** And take the action. If I may add one very important little thing, take the action when you determine what really is representative of your joy. Take the action with zero expectation that that's got to work out somehow. Just take the action because it feels like the most exciting thing you can do right now. Then the next thing that comes along that really contains the highest degree of excitement, take that action. Even if it seems completely unconnected and 180 degrees from the last action you took, it's the excitement that you follow, not what it looks like on the surface. Does that make sense?

**QUESTION 7:** Yes, sir.

**BASHAR:** One last question, sir.

**QUESTION 7:** All right. Yes, sir.

**BASHAR:** Um, in developing some of these film projects, I would like to attract like-minded writers.

**QUESTION 7:** How can you not when you have all your energy cohesively in the direction of that which represents your highest joy and function within that as if you know it's a complete kit. The complete kit contains all the tools and attracts all the tools that are of like vibration when they need to be attracted automatically synchronistically with no effort whatsoever. You just wind up at the right place at the right time, meet exactly who you need to meet and you will know and recognize them for who they need to be and who they are. You have to function holistically with this idea. So that by being a holism, the whole already contains all the parts that define the whole, including anyone you haven't even yet met. When you need to meet them, they will automatically be there because you will simply follow your joy. And again, as an example, one day suddenly you may just find that the most exciting thing available to you at that particular moment is to simply take a walk somewhere. You may start to talk yourself out of it going, "Now, how am I supposed to meet a writer?" By taking a walk over there, but who knows who you're going to run into if that really is representative of your excitement. That's exactly the shortest path that would allow you to meet exactly who you need to meet, even though it may appear to have nothing at all to do with what you started out to do. Do you understand?

**QUESTION 7:** Yes. Yes. Can you allow it?

**BASHAR:** Can you allow it to be this simple is the biggest question of all because this is the way life works if you let it. You don't have to make it work. It already works. All you have to do is let it work by being yourself. That's all you have to do. Be yourself. Follow your joy at every moment to the best of your ability to the highest degree you have the capability of taking action on your highest joy. Take that action first. Then as soon as you have gone as far as you can go with that, look around. What's the next most exciting thing you are capable of taking some action on? Take that action next. Follow that down the line. Whatever it is you have time to do in the course of a day by doing it that way is all you need to do in the course of that day. You understand?

**QUESTION 7:** Yes. Does this help?

**BASHAR:** We'll see. We'll see.

**QUESTION 7:** All right, then I simply leave you with lights, camera, action, you and then you.

**BASHAR:** Number two, do you know who you are? Number three, the mail. You know who you are. Number one, good day. Aloha.

**QUESTION 7:** Aloha to you.

---

**QUESTION 8:** Yippy, I got my ticket paid for.

**BASHAR:** All right. Thank you for your synchronistic co-creation.

**QUESTION 8:** Um, my birthday is on Tuesday and since I can't—happy birthday coordinated with thank you with the class.

**BASHAR:** Um, I could get a straight answer or two out of you.

**QUESTION 8:** Do you mean as a special birthday present?

**BASHAR:** Yeah.

**QUESTION 8:** A straight answer or two? Well, actually three is our favorite number.

**BASHAR:** A straight answer or three?

**QUESTION 8:** We will see. Depends on how straight your questions are.

**BASHAR:** What's Violet's birthday?

**QUESTION 8:** One moment. There seems to be, for some reason, a fluctuation between two conceptual dates in your reality. I'll pick November 22nd. April 22nd. Okay, I know. And then I would go for April 22nd. All right. Question number two.

**BASHAR:** This is a really off-the-wall one. It's actually I don't know if I should even use it for one of my questions. It's really silly, but it's just sort of a—

**QUESTION 8:** All right, I'll wait till you're through judging yourself. Well, if I'm getting straight answers, I better go for the good ones. Then again, ask the question in a straight manner.

**BASHAR:** Um, my mom passed away a couple years ago.

**QUESTION 8:** All right. Is that a question?

**BASHAR:** No, this is I'm giving you the little background. Yes. And—but your vibration rose at the end of your sentence. Well, I wasn't sure how I was going to say it.

**QUESTION 8:** Oh, all right. Seemed to come out just fine. What? I want to know if she was off the same cloth as some saint—cloth? You know, like from the same oversoul.

**BASHAR:** Yes. Yes. Can you tell me which one?

**QUESTION 8:** One moment. Christopher. That's beautiful. Does that help you?

**BASHAR:** That's lovely. All right. And number three, um, a few days ago, one of my uncles died that I wasn't particularly close to, but that day, um, I found out that my younger sister was pregnant. Guys, there I could feel it coming on. Um, I had a real emotional experience that day, which was—whenever somebody tells me they're pregnant. Yes. It just I get the eebie-jeebies.

**QUESTION 8:** The ET gibbies. I guess that's what it is. I chose not to have kids in this life when I was 18, and I never regret that. I don't want any now.

**BASHAR:** I understand. This doesn't mean that this is always the reason why this is so, but it is quite a common reaction to individuals who do have experiences with the idea of extraterrestrials in terms of being a part of the hybridization agenda and who have children, shall we say, up there. It's quite a normal reaction to not have children on Earth when you do have genetic children on the spaceships.

**QUESTION 8:** So, why do I get so emotional about pregnancy?

**BASHAR:** Because it is an emotional issue to feel that you have been impregnated and then to not be able to see the child.

**QUESTION 8:** That's what I thought.

**BASHAR:** Because there is a bond and it always will be there and there will be a time when you will be reunited physiologically with the child on your planet but since that time is not yet now you feel that connection and since it cannot be shall we say physically realized you have the emotional response that you are having.

**QUESTION 8:** I had a really fun day that day. I told my dad that whole thing. I told him that's what I thought it was and that was a real eye-opener for him because he doesn't want to, you know, think about any of this stuff and I'm never emotional like that. I could not stop crying that day.

**BASHAR:** All right. And so that was a fun part of it that you know he has to like actually hear that and it's like really is a reality.

**QUESTION 8:** Yes. You have now had your three straight answers. Does this serve you?

**BASHAR:** Yeah. Then happy birthday.

**QUESTION 8:** Thank you. Can I ask you that crazy thing? Is this a bonus? You don't have to give a straight answer.

**BASHAR:** How's that? Thank you. We will see.

**QUESTION 8:** One of the trips in Hawaii, I saw on the path to my little cabin a little—it looked like I think it was a bug. It looked like a bead or something. And it was about 4 mm or less. And it was just a half round and it was an iridescent blue or black. Nice. And I picked it up and it didn't look like it had any legs. So that maybe it was like a plant scale or something. But for some reason that stuck out. I took pictures with I have a really good lens and I took really good pictures of it which didn't come out. And I've always wondered if that was more than some kind of bug that I have never imagined could exist.

**BASHAR:** As we scan your energy, it is our perception that it was in your terms the remnant of an insect. Just a piece of something. Yes. A piece of what you would call a part of a shell structure. You understand? An iridescent shell structure.

**QUESTION 8:** Yeah. It was just weird how the picture didn't come out.

**BASHAR:** You know about what you said at the beginning. Yes. About the something exploding. I love when you stuff tell stuff like that because when I hear that stuff I think exploding like you said—the choice—I think magic, I think fun and I think new, new dimensions and I was that's exciting to me because I think just like popping into one or amped up more magic reality.

**QUESTION 8:** Then you have within the symbol of the item that you found on the ground in its magnificent iridescence that all of that brilliance could occur in such a small little spot. You have a beautiful symbol for understanding aspects of yourself more clearly. So magic end of discussion.

**BASHAR:** I love you.

**QUESTION 8:** Our love to you as well. Next.

---

**QUESTION 9:** Hi Bashar.

**BASHAR:** And to you. Good day.

**QUESTION 9:** Um, I have a blue green stone.

**BASHAR:** Do you mean glass?

**QUESTION 9:** Pardon?

**BASHAR:** Do you mean glass?

**QUESTION 9:** Yes. We've been calling them stones. Glass stone if you—Oh, all right. If you wish to use that terminology. All right. Yes. I've just called them stones. Yes. But yeah, it is the monoatomic glass stones. Nice. And it's very unique and a very different color. Now, I had some information from the blue stone when I sat down and I had Daryl read the information.

**BASHAR:** Yes. You misspelled the word shining. There is only one N.

**QUESTION 9:** You're right. That was it. Just I misspelled that word for now. Okay. This was pretty exciting information.

**BASHAR:** Yes, you will find that there is to some degree a correlation with the concept of the 333,000 cycles per second in certain levels of the frequency. Of course, it is not across the entire bandwidth or spectrum. Otherwise, it would not exist in physiological reality at all. Right? So, it is representative of that threshold frequency and can help to accelerate or catalyze or boost other energies into that high and rarified electromagnetic bandwidth representative of that color. Yes. Okay. And then the it tied into—it is a booster in that sense a catalyzing reflective booster a focusing device in the same way that what you call a dish shape focuses rays of energy. It is similar to that concept. Yes. And the shape reminds me of a spacecraft. Yes. Of a dish. A dish. Yes. Or what you call a saucer shape. Yes. Saucer shape. Yes. Serious. Oh.

**QUESTION 9:** It is something different than serious energy though that is contained in the matrix. It is something more.

**BASHAR:** Oh, it's more.

**QUESTION 9:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Okay. It is many things. It is serious. It is earth. It is our vibration. It is other vibrations. It is an amalgam in that sense.

**QUESTION 9:** Ah and that it's the shift from the grace.

**BASHAR:** It is a higher level, a rarified aspect, an offshoot of that idea. Yes.

**QUESTION 9:** Yeah. The amped up energy.

**BASHAR:** It is like the etheric body to the physical body, the blue stone to the gray stone. Yes.

**QUESTION 9:** Uhhuh. Okay. Okay. And then I connect it with my dream that I had in '86.

**BASHAR:** It is good for inducing dream states. Yes. For catalyzing and triggering the idea of that electromagnetic level on which your spirit experiences the concept you remember as a dream when you physicalize in the morning. Okay.

**QUESTION 9:** Yeah, this is pretty exciting. I also wanted to share this dream that I had.

**BASHAR:** Proceed.

**QUESTION 9:** Um, I was working at a military base. I was a scientist and went in on a weekend because there weren't many people there. I was working on a special project, one that was an ongoing one but seemed very familiar and that had been around a long time even in other lives. I had been sleeping myself and a kid—I was either a kid or a short person because upon waking—a short person—and upon waking I went to his—we were in the same room and found that he had disappeared. Guys, there was this box, a magical box that I was working with that he disappeared into. All right. When looking into it, you could see crisscross patterns of layers of dimensions. I went about my business with tesseract.

**BASHAR:** Pardon?

**QUESTION 9:** Tesseract.

**BASHAR:** Tesseract. How's that spelled?

**QUESTION 9:** T E S E R A C T.

**BASHAR:** That's the layers of the crisscross pattern. No. Tesseract or what is in your language called hyper cube?

**QUESTION 9:** Cube within a cube.

**BASHAR:** Cube within a cube in that each face represents a whole cube interlaced with other cubes. It is only seen as a perspective shadow trick in your reality. But the tesseract is the structural interface doorway from your dimension to other dimensions. Tesseract, it is represented in shadow form in your reality as if you were to draw a transparent cube, thus being able to see all the edges. You understand?

**QUESTION 9:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** In the center floating in the center, draw a smaller cube. Do you understand?

**QUESTION 9:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Connect each corner of the inner cube to the inner corner of the outer cube. So that by looking into the face of the outer cube, it is as if you see the perspective of the whole cube from each face, but knowing it is not just the perspective of the same cube, but a totally different cube, a totally different reality. This is called in your mathematical construction a tesseract or hyper cube.

**QUESTION 9:** Wow. Okay. That is what you are calling the box in your dream.

**BASHAR:** Okay. Well, I went about my business.

**QUESTION 9:** It is analogous to folded space. Folded space. Yes. Folded spacetime.

**BASHAR:** Oh, this was so exciting. And when I got up in the morning, I just started writing.

**QUESTION 9:** So, I went about my business with a smaller box and a statue with writing on her that I was looking at very closely. I could read in English most of what was inscribed, but there were also a few words in another language.

**BASHAR:** What did you read?

**QUESTION 9:** I don't recall anything at all. Not even a word, not even a letter, not even a symbol.

**BASHAR:** No, I just don't have it in my memory.

**QUESTION 9:** Then I would suggest this. Allow yourself to construct out of whatever material—it does not have to be in your terms expensive—a tesseract. Use it as a meditational device to focus upon as the box and see if by projecting in your meditation your consciousness into the tesseract you can retrieve the information. Okay, this is your homework.

**BASHAR:** All right, there's more.

**QUESTION 9:** On there always is. Yes. This statue was of a woman's outline about as tall as our Oscar statue. Understood. Okay. Now here I write that I put the statue aside as I understood what that was about. I guess at that time in the dream I picked up this box and it had a lot of papers with it. This smaller box. Yes. I was looking for a duplicating machine when I noticed in a mirror my reflection of having a black top and pants and I had white powder handprints on the front and back of my pants where I had touched or had brushed my hands against the pants. Yes. I took off looking for a place in private to wash this. I went back into the room where this kid had disappeared into the larger box and he had returned. Yes. The idea of his going into the larger box was that he could go—we could go after and bring back anything we wanted into physical form. Yes. He brought back lots of money.

**BASHAR:** And you—I didn't bring back anything from the box. He brought back what will you bring?

**QUESTION 9:** What will I bring? What will you bring?

**BASHAR:** What will I bring? What will you bring? Let's leave it at that question. Yes.

**QUESTION 9:** Now let's leave it at that question. What will you bring? What will I bring?

**BASHAR:** Through the box.

**QUESTION 9:** Through the box.

**BASHAR:** Through the gate, through the window, through the door. That is the tesseract. The hyper cube. Okay. Of course, taking into account the symbology for yourself also of bringing through the abundance. That counts for you as well. Yes. But the idea now is for you to focus on the hyper cube and to determine what form of abundance you will also bring through the box as your particular unique expression of abundance and recognition of self and expression of self.

**QUESTION 9:** Okay, let's leave it at that.

**BASHAR:** All right, suggest that you to the next interaction bring your tesseract.

**QUESTION 9:** All right, it does not have to be too big, but make it a comfortable size for you to consider it to be the gateway and doorway that it needs to be.

**BASHAR:** All right. Thank you. And the mail. Thank you.

---

**QUESTION 10:** I'm reading your book and I'm almost done with it. The one—Good day.

**BASHAR:** Good day. Good day to you.

**QUESTION 10:** I'm reading your book and I'm really excited about it and there's a couple things and this book would be the blueprints of your channeling from '87—Blueprints for Change.

**BASHAR:** Yeah. All right. Understood.

**QUESTION 10:** It's a book of your channeling. And the part that I'm really excited about, but I don't quite understand yet, is the part of agreed upon realities between two people and the background being prioritized. Yes. And then the other part I don't understand is the part where you talk about the strobing effect, how two people within the same frequency of strobe perceive the same reality.

**BASHAR:** It is simply an analogy of the idea of whatever bandwidth, whatever frequency you're on is the reality you perceive out of the entire matrix of all possible realities which already exist. It is similar to the analogy of your television set in the sense that all the programs you could possibly perceive at any given moment are all there at the same time, so to speak, in the airwaves. You only get the one you are tuned to the frequency of on your channel. But that doesn't mean the others aren't there, aren't real. If another person is tuned to another channel, they see another program. If you are on one wavelength, one frequency, you perceive the reality you perceive because of the frequency you are on. If another person is on the same frequency, they will perceive a similar reality. If they shift their frequency too greatly, they will perceive another reality altogether that is no less real, but it will be a reality different than yours. And yours will be different than theirs because all reality is real because there is no reality. That's what reality is. Does that make sense to you?

**QUESTION 10:** Yeah, that makes sense for the strobe effect. I'm interested also in the background. You talk about backgrounds of people's realities and how prioritized.

**BASHAR:** Yes. When you make an agreement, so to speak, to participate in a particular reality domain. In other words, to play a certain game, you generally agree to play by the rules of that game. There can be some tweaking, some stretching, and there certainly can be a lot of freedom of movement within the structure of the general rules. But in order to play that game, you have to abide by those rules. Otherwise, you're playing another game altogether. Therefore, when individuals decide to incarnate into any particular physical reality, while each and every one of them will have their own unique signature vibration, they will also make a part of the overall rules of the game a part of their own signature vibration so that they will automatically abide at least in general by the rules of that reality domain. So, they don't have to think about it. You follow?

**QUESTION 10:** Yeah.

**BASHAR:** Then there will be certain levels, shall we say, of priority as to what is really most important in general at any given moment for playing that particular reality game. For example, even though obviously this can be changed because there is no real reality except what you deem it to be. In general, you have all on your planet agreed that to allow the game to be easy and to focus on the things you really want to focus on, you will agree to automatically create the concept of gravity so that you don't have to spend time consciously doing that. That is a background priority that you will all generally abide by until such time as it becomes necessary that your excitement says that you should focus on that and change that in another way that you don't necessarily have to pay attention to that background rule. Does that make sense?

**QUESTION 10:** Yeah, it does. Yeah. Does that help clarify the idea?

**BASHAR:** Um yeah. Is there some other avenue down which you wish to take these concepts?

**QUESTION 10:** Um, so in agreement of like concepts of buildings being a reality to the agreed upon people in that particular area. Yes. And as it gets more and more personalized, you have to some degree more and more leeway within the structure as to what kind of reality within the game you can experience on a personal level. So two people together would have to agree upon the same reality pretty much in general.

**BASHAR:** And you obviously do in general, though from time to time you do create differences, not always just as the result of someone having misinterpreted something, but truly sometimes as the result of people creating a different enough reality that you actually experienced something different. So two people in the same place could see different things. Is it?

**QUESTION 10:** Absolutely. Because place has nothing to do with what you're experiencing because place is a part of the equation that you're creating. There is no place but here. There is no time but now. There is only one now. Everything you experience as a different time is simply the same now from another point of view. There is only here. Every place you experience as a different place is simply another perspective of the same here. Does that make sense to you?

**QUESTION 10:** Yeah. Yeah.

**BASHAR:** I was also trying to perceive everybody around me as being a reflection of myself. Yes. And thus trying to see everything as the whole. All right. Well, what might help is the physiological analogy that we have often given that we in our own ancient language call the prime radiant. But the idea to put it very briefly and very simply is—and this is only an illustrative analogy. It doesn't necessarily have to be taken too literally, but it will work for the purposes of this illustration. Imagine you are familiar first of all yes with the concept of subatomic particles. Yeah. Imagine one—one just one subatomic particle in a vast emptiness that is infinite. You follow? All right. Now imagine that this particle is not bound by any laws or any rules whatsoever. It can go as fast as it wants. Doesn't have to worry about the speed of light. You follow? Imagine now if you will that this one particle thus then exercises its right to move as fast as it possibly can which basically means it can move at infinite speed. You follow? Mhm. What this translates out to mean is that this one particle by moving at infinite speed can actually appear to be everywhere at once. You follow? Yeah. So what you perceive as more than one particle is actually the same particle moving so fast that it appears next to itself simultaneously and to you looks like two particles, three particles, a million particles, a billion particles, an infinite number of particles. But it's the same one particle taking shifts through thought of the intense. Yes. But that is the nature of the essence of the existence of physiological reality on its most fundamental level at all. Thus, you, anyone else, the chair, the wall, the farthest star is literally made from the same single particle just taking a certain geometric course through infinity at infinite speed. So any change you make at all is a change with your intention, with your focus in the path the particle takes. In fact, that's what creates the illusion of motion. You understand? Mhm. But any change you make changes the path for everything. Which means any change you make at all, no matter how subtle it may be, actually changes the makeup of the path the particle takes in the farthest star. Powerful. Yeah. Yeah. Does that help you get a better sense of the fact that everything even physically is actually one thing?

**QUESTION 10:** Yeah, that does.

**BASHAR:** Yet at the same time, of course, the richness of the one is in its inherent diversity in all its expression, all the ways that it can represent itself instantly, simultaneously. That from your level of reality can only be perceived one thing at a time, one aspect at a time, one perspective, one angle at a time. In the same way that your television sets are generally, at least if they're functioning correctly, capable of perceiving usually only one program at a time, even though all the other programs are there simultaneously and maybe being perceived by other people tuned to those channels. You follow.

**QUESTION 10:** Yeah.

**BASHAR:** Does that help?

**QUESTION 10:** Yeah. You and then you. Number one. Number two, do you know who you are?

**BASHAR:** All right. Hi.

---

**QUESTION 11:** Good day. Um, in the last six months, I've had a number of experiences.

**BASHAR:** Speak up and be bold so that all may hear what you have to share.

**QUESTION 11:** Okay. Um, that I would terrifying.

**BASHAR:** Oh, all right. This is getting exciting. Do continue. And when these experience terror is another form of excitement, you know.

**QUESTION 11:** Well, I guess that's partly what I'm talking about right now. Terror a little differently.

**BASHAR:** And what's happening? I mean like is things being released when I go through those experiences?

**QUESTION 11:** And it's up to you to use them as you wish. It's up to you to turn them into constructive realizations to add to your awareness of who and what you are. Remember again that fear is your own energy, your own excitement being filtered through definitions that are out of tune or out of alignment with your true self. So terror in that sense is simply shall we say a representation of a definition that may be very much out of alignment with your true self.

**BASHAR:** Yeah. And it seems like it takes time after I have the realization with the terror.

**QUESTION 11:** That's all right. You live in a world of spacetime. It's all right if it takes some time. Don't be hard on yourself.

**BASHAR:** Yeah. Because it is kind of interesting.

**QUESTION 11:** Yes. Like this. This is what you signed up for.

**BASHAR:** Yeah. I was thinking about that, but I'm not clear yet what that's all about.

**QUESTION 11:** No, that's all right. You are becoming clearer.

**BASHAR:** Okay. It's all about being your true self is what it's all about.

**QUESTION 11:** I chose some interesting experiences.

**BASHAR:** You all have. Very interesting. Why do you think we're all so fascinated with your planet? You're all very creative.

**QUESTION 11:** Well, you know, like I'm very emotional.

**BASHAR:** You're all very emotional.

**QUESTION 11:** Well, I feel it so much.

**BASHAR:** Yes. So, well, it seems like maybe more than most people.

**QUESTION 11:** Not necessarily. Maybe you just express it differently.

**BASHAR:** Oh, obviously you do allow yourself to feel more than some other individuals might allow themselves to feel, but that doesn't mean that you feel more than they do.

**QUESTION 11:** Right. I guess that was more what I was sensing.

**BASHAR:** All right. And so I just wondered about that like as if I had made that choice even before I came.

**QUESTION 11:** And in some senses that might be part of your original matrix. Yes, your original agreement with yourself. But that might also be a part of what it is you are attempting to balance.

**BASHAR:** Okay, I understand.

**QUESTION 11:** Because it is all well and good to feel as much as you want to feel. But if you also find that allowing yourself to feel to that extent is also what's bringing up the idea of some of the fear that you experience, then that is an indication in and of itself that feeling to that extent in the way that you do—not feeling to that extent, but feeling to that extent in the way that you do might be also part of the issue that you're attempting to balance within yourself. Does that make sense? Wait a sec. Time's up.

**BASHAR:** The extent of the—not the extent of the feeling, but the way you translate the idea. Make sense?

**QUESTION 11:** Yeah. I'm going to have to listen to it again.

**BASHAR:** Okay. You don't have to say it again, but I will listen to it again.

**QUESTION 11:** All right. Um, and I started reading The Secret School.

**BASHAR:** Yes. And I started writing. I've been writing a lot.

**QUESTION 11:** All right. Which has been very freeing.

**BASHAR:** Thank you. And as I was reading it, it was sort of like it would trigger feelings in me about events or things that had taken place.

**QUESTION 11:** Yes. What about painting? Have you started painting yet?

**BASHAR:** Painting? You know, I no—just wait till you see what that triggers.

**QUESTION 11:** Oh my. Oh no. It will take you deep into childhood. Deep deep deep deep into childhood.

**BASHAR:** Fun. Well, you know this whole thing just with school— Yes. I mean, and this sort of this idea of what I experienced on Earth and what I experienced in this other—

**QUESTION 11:** Yes. I leave you with this. In the school of life, there is no recess. However, all of your life is a recess—is playtime. Paradox. That's what you look for and that's when you know you're at the center of your truth. So the way that I feel this as far as the two extremes in terms of the way that I was treated—

**BASHAR:** Yes. is the paradox.

**QUESTION 11:** Yes. You are at the center.

**BASHAR:** I can feel that the true you is at the center. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Does that help you?

**QUESTION 11:** Yeah. I know. I had one. Oh, but the other side of all this is at the same time the computer program thing sort of all came together. Yes. And like I have three computers now.

**BASHAR:** Effortlessly just came together. Yes.

**QUESTION 11:** What a shock. That's the loveliest part of I guess one of the love.

**BASHAR:** Thank you for realizing that part of yourself to the degree where you could allow your life to reflect that part of yourself to you. It truly is a roller coaster.

**QUESTION 11:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** But many of you like roller coasters, don't you?

**QUESTION 11:** You think I do?

**BASHAR:** Yes, I know. So remember the next time you feel that your life is a roller coaster, you bought the ticket.

**QUESTION 11:** Yeah. I always try and remember that on the part where it's going down and it's tough.

**BASHAR:** Yes. But that's what you like because that's what makes you stretch and grow. And that's what makes you realize that what is at first perceived as tough is actually a reflection of how strong you actually are. And when you know it for what it is, it won't feel tough. It will feel powerful.

**QUESTION 11:** Oh, I love it. Oh, that sounds great.

**BASHAR:** Follow. Thank you. Thank you, Bashar. I'm the mail. Good day. Hello. Thank you.

---

**QUESTION 12:** Good day. Um, my question is, how does your helping us help your kind?

**BASHAR:** Why, thank you. There are many connections that we have to your civilization. First of all, of course, if you are familiar to any degree with what on your planet has been euphemistically called the abduction phenomenology. Yes or no?

**QUESTION 12:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Are you familiar that part of the so-called agenda is the creation of a hybrid race? Genetically half human, genetically half extraterrestrial. Are you familiar with this aspect of what is called the abduction phenomenology?

**QUESTION 12:** No.

**BASHAR:** All right. Then you are familiar with it now. You will find in the literature—if you will take some time, if it is of interest to you, to research the literature that exists on your planet from individuals who have recounted their experiences, that the largest conclusion, in fact, almost the only thing your people are certain about that is going on in what is called the abduction interactions is the creation of a hybrid race. We are a future result of that hybridization. That's one way we are connected to you. In that sense, you are literally our ancestors and we are your descendants and we are now speaking to you from what you might call a future time. Also in interacting with you, in seeing how it is that you are choosing to transform the great degree of limitations that exist in your reality domain, we get to learn many more ways that the infinite has of realizing itself and expressing itself within that reality domain and it expands our understanding of the possibility of what creation can do. We use that information also for other worlds experiencing similar limitations. You are as a planet a great teacher of how to transform great limitation. In the past we have told you—we meaning no offense—have referred to your world as the masters of limitation in that you are such masters of limitation. There are other worlds who are also going through great transformations and limitations attempting to transform them and we have taken many of the lessons we have learned from you and how to do that and shared it with them which has helped them greatly. You are of great service to many other planets in the universe whether you know it or not. Also, as you do decide to integrate and transform these limitations into unlimited creative reality and become closer and closer and closer to our frequency of existence, then as one day in what you call your near future, we are thus by your acceleration capable of interacting with you as a race, as a planet more physically, more concretely than we have—you new playmates to explore creation with and this we love. So we thank you for the opportunity that is upcoming to do this as well. There are many things that we get from you but at the same time we are doing what we are doing interacting with your species and other civilizations not because we need to get anything from it but just because this is what we love to do and we would do this no matter what because this is who we are and there is no other choice for us but to be who we are. Mhm. So whether any of you in any way, shape or form listen to anything that we say, believe anything that we say, choose to take anything that we say at face value or to heart or not, doesn't really much matter to us because the greatest gift you are giving to us to begin with is simply the ability to express who and what we are and for that we love you.

**QUESTION 12:** Uh, two more quick questions. One relates to—does that mean therefore that on your end this is like a seance?

**BASHAR:** In some senses I suppose I am reclining in what you would recognize as my spacecraft in a state of repose. My consciousness is amplified by what—this may be a misleading term but it perhaps will do for now—by what you would recognize as a self-aware computerized intelligence that I call my ship. It is helping to amplify the telepathic link between myself and the channel before you so that this biological transmission can take place through the translator you know as the physical embodiment of the channel. In a sense it is like having an imaginary conversation but I understand it is also real.

**QUESTION 12:** The other question I have relates to gravity. Yes. I just discovered that heavier helicopters auto rotate slower than lighter helicopters. Does that mean that if I threw a rock—does that mean that depending upon the speed at which I throw a rock up that the speed that is the speed at which it will come down?

**BASHAR:** There may be many multiple factors and the idea of the description of what you call a rock and the shape of a device on your planet you call a helicopter are very different. The difference in the helicopter is that the weight in that it initially falls faster because of its weight because there is shall we say not as much ability for the air to slow it down. You follow? Mhm. It speeds up initially which causes the blades to spin faster which then slows its descent. Does that make sense to you?

**QUESTION 12:** Absolutely.

**BASHAR:** But the analogy of a rock is something quite different.

**QUESTION 12:** Okay. Does that help?

**BASHAR:** Yes. Thank you.

**QUESTION 12:** Thank you. What? What? What? What? What? You. You. Good day.

---

**QUESTION 13:** You and you as well. I was given the name Allara through automatic writing and I was wondering if you could tell me something about the syllables lan and rah.

**BASHAR:** It is like unto an identification resonance for you to help you align or focus in or target something that is closer to your own frequency and your connections as all of you have them to other domains and realms of consciousness. Ara as a frequency as a combination amalgam vibration is representative of a large bandwidth of experiences that you have had in different incarnations that represents the ability to tap into that large bandwidth now in this present life to help you focus in on what might be called your essential frequency, your signature vibration and to help you gain more familiarity with who and what you are by tapping into that vibration and then taking an action—all the actions and behaviors in your life that seem congruent with being in that frequency. Does that make sense to you?

**QUESTION 13:** Yes. Yes, it does.

**BASHAR:** It is a clarion call to you from yourself to be yourself from your past and from your future to meet in the middle where you are now so to speak and to be the combination of all those ideas you hold to be best about yourself from long ago and from those times yet to come. Does that make sense to you?

**QUESTION 13:** Yes, it does.

**BASHAR:** What else about this intrigues you?

**QUESTION 13:** Well, the channelings that I've been doing are—they take time and energy.

**BASHAR:** Then perhaps you are resisting their natural flow. Is this something that you are excited to do or not?

**QUESTION 13:** It is something that I believe in.

**BASHAR:** Yes. Does that mean you're excited about it?

**QUESTION 13:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** All right. Then when you allow it to flow in its most natural way, two things immediately with reference to what you have just said will begin to occur if they haven't already. Number one, the amount of time you actually experience in the channeling will seem to be less than what other people around you actually experience as the passage of time. That's number one. You follow?

**QUESTION 13:** Mhm.

**BASHAR:** So it is actually taking less time experientially and you in experiencing the passage of less time will actually age less. You follow?

**QUESTION 13:** That's interesting.

**BASHAR:** Yes. Because you create the experience of time. When you live more in the now, you become timeless. You follow?

**QUESTION 13:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Number two, because you become more timeless. Because you become less resistant to the flow, the energy will then not deplete you, but will support and energize you. You follow?

**QUESTION 13:** I'm waiting for that time.

**BASHAR:** All right. All you have to do is become less resistant. Okay. Stop defining this in any way, shape, or form as a duty or a burden. Is it representative of your joy or isn't it is the only question.

**QUESTION 13:** It's complicated because it's happening to me.

**BASHAR:** It is actually not happening to you. It's happening through you.

**QUESTION 13:** Through me.

**BASHAR:** Yes. But by your choice, right? By an agreement that I made before birth, I assume.

**QUESTION 13:** Would you imagine that you would make an agreement that wouldn't be representative of your joy and your truth?

**BASHAR:** I think in the long run it is.

**QUESTION 13:** And I in the long run and I support it in the long run. But right now I find it very difficult.

**BASHAR:** For what reason?

**QUESTION 13:** Um, these—well I think it's from the divine realm and they're using my energy as—excuse me. Yes.

**BASHAR:** The difficulty does not come from the divine realm. The difficulty comes from you. Right. You are defining this experience in a way that allows you to experience it as difficult. It is only your definition that creates the difficulty. There is zero inherent difficulty in the essence of this experience. Difficulty by definition cannot come from the divine realm. It can only come from dimensions that contain the definitions of limitations. Right? You follow?

**QUESTION 13:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** So the ability to alleviate any perceived difficulty is totally, completely, absolutely, ultimately, effortlessly, completely, totally, absolutely, ultimately in your hands every single moment.

**QUESTION 13:** Okay.

**BASHAR:** When you start defining this as more effortless, as joyful, and trust that it will because it is representative of who you are naturally, trust that it will allow your life to arrange itself smoothly to accommodate whatever is representative of your joy. The concept of difficulty will disappear.

**QUESTION 13:** I hope so.

**BASHAR:** You what? It will.

**QUESTION 13:** Thank you.

**BASHAR:** The way you said that implied despair and doubt. Watch your definitions. Watch, listen, pay attention to your definitions. I don't mean to make you walk on eggshells with everything you say. But many times you will find if you just listen to yourself, you will hear exactly and obviously why you are creating difficulty because listen to the way you think. Listen to the way you talk. Listen to the way you put the vibrations out in your reality. "I hope so" which means you don't know. So you understand?

**QUESTION 13:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Start changing the definitions that don't work for you into ones that do. Example, are you paying attention?

**QUESTION 13:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Are you sure?

**QUESTION 13:** Positive.

**BASHAR:** Thank you. Example, we have used these before. Most people on your planet would define doubt as a lack of trust. You understand this?

**QUESTION 13:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** This is a common definition on your planet, isn't it?

**QUESTION 13:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** You doubt something. That means you don't have trust.

**QUESTION 13:** Yes. Yes.

**BASHAR:** Do you generally agree with this definition on your planet as being the definition of doubt?

**QUESTION 13:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** That's not the definition of doubt on my planet. You want to hear what our definition of doubt is?

**QUESTION 13:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** Doubt is a 100% unfailing, unswerving, unwavering trust in a belief and a definition that's out of alignment with your truth. The profound difference between these two definitions is this. Your planet thinks that by doubting you have to learn how to trust. We already know that you trust 100% of the time. The question is not learning how to trust—which of course would be very difficult. It's what are you putting your trust in because you never ever ever don't trust something to be true. You see the difference?

**QUESTION 13:** Yes.

**BASHAR:** It can alleviate a lot of the feeling of difficulty by changing a simple definition. You understand?

**QUESTION 13:** I think so. Yes.

**BASHAR:** All right. Then start looking at the way you define things and come up with definitions that are more in alignment with what you would prefer the definitions to be and you will find again the difficulty start to dissolve. Do you think you can do that?

**QUESTION 13:** I think so.

**BASHAR:** Have fun with that. The more fun you have with it, the easier your channeling will be. Trust it.

**QUESTION 13:** What kind of energies do you read around my body?

**BASHAR:** Some that are connected to the idea of angelic but of a very particular bandwidth nature. Some that are connected to the idea of some ancient extraterrestrial connections that express themselves in what you would call the ancient Egyptian civilization on your planet and Atlantean civilization on your planet. There is a smattering of Sirius energy here and there with a connection to dolphins. But you also have some strong Orion overtones as well. You are in that sense relatively complex as a matrix in this life. And that's some of the reason why there is some confusion for you is because you're hearing all these tonalities. All you have to do is recognize that altogether. No matter how many different tonalities you may perceive, they all come together to form one harmonic. And that harmonic is whatever you deem in your highest joy is who you are and what you're all about. They will bend and make themselves plastic to you. If you are not allowed to be yourself after all, what good and what service and what help could you be in bringing through these energies? You follow? So you have the ability to determine first who you are, what you prefer to be, how you prefer to do this. They will take your lead because you are the leader where you are. You follow? Be equal to it. Do not think them in that sense better than you, greater than you in that sense. Yes, maybe more expanded, but that does not mean better. You are equal in your own way. I leave you with this. Even though you are a part of the whole, a part is also a part because it is the whole expressing itself as a part. So a part is not just a piece. A part is the whole thing expressing itself as a part. So do not feel separate from the whole. You are the whole just in a particular modality from a particular point of view. 



**BASHAR:** That will allow you to feel the infinite support you need to know that this is not just a burden on the little shoulders of your physical being.


**BASHAR:** And at this timing, I extend once again to each and every one of you our deep appreciation in allowing our civilization to communicate with you through this particular doorway. At this time, once again, I remind you, live your dreams instead of simply dreaming about being alive. Our unconditional love to each and every one of you always eternally. And all of you together we thank you. Good day. How did it go?

**DARREL:** Great. Thank you all for being here tonight and I will see you again. Have a good night. I always look Japanese when I come out.

