---
heading: Part 1
title: "The Oyster and the Polarity of the Pearl"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1997-03-16
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 135
tags: ['']
---



## The Oyster and the Pearl

Allow us to begin this day of your time by wishing you happy evening of your full moon. And in synchronous honor of the timing of your full moon, it would be advantageous to discuss a notion that we would like to call the oyster and the polarity of the pearl.

The pearl has the connotation that when your oyster receives a small particle that would seem to be a type of irritant, it will encase this small particle of sand or other object in secretions of a material that eventually harden into what you recognize as a round pearl.

You as a society have given these pearls value and you can look at the concept of the pearl in a positive and of course a negative way. The polarity of the pearl.

It is akin to the idea first and foremost that you can take what you might normally consider to be life's difficulties, life's irritations, that which you may have formerly labeled as difficulties, obstacles, irritations, and you can convert and transform them into something of great value like unto the pearl.

The idea also being that you do not necessarily have to see these things as difficulties, as irritations, as obstacles, but as challenges to transform the definition of these things in such a way as to render their outcome into something valuable to you that you can add to your understanding of self, to your growth.

At the same time, you can also view the concept of the pearl from the negative point of view, which would be like unto encasing something, burying something, denying something which always remains at the core, at the heart, never goes away, glossed over by a pretty exterior, but never really vanishes, is always at the heart of the matter, needing to be dealt with.

So the pearl can offer you an opportunity to determine for yourself as a reflective symbol, literally a reflective symbol, the idea of whether you are simply glossing over a core issue that really does remain as an irritant for you that you are not allowing yourself to define in any positive way. Glossing it over and pretending that you are dealing with it in a positive way but are not. And at the same time, it is an opportunity also to get in touch with when you truly know you can transform what you formerly might have labeled an irritant and an obstacle into something more constructive, into a seed that will allow you to create something beautiful and reflective and valuable for yourself. You in that sense are the oyster in life.

It is thus then reflective symbolically of these inner seeds, these inner ideas, these core vibrations, allowing you to determine from what we have discussed before whether or not the things that seem to be not exciting in life, the things that seem to be defined as irritations and obstacles, the things that seem to be defined as struggles, are they really not of your vibration? Are they really not the things that excite you? Are they really not representative of your preference? Or are you simply with your own definitions allowing them to seem to not be those things?

Always first and foremost decide whether or not it is your definitions that are rendering your life into the concept of struggle and strife and that the things that are in your life could in fact be representative of your joy. And if not, then make the determination as to what is exciting to you and choose only that.

The idea for you is to get a hold of which it is within you. Honest self-inner communication to determine what your definitions are doing and how they may be coloring and filtering the idea of your excitement, your reality, your choices, your preference, and to truly give yourself the opportunity to create pearls of wisdom, which of course always are the result of experience.

We thank you for allowing us to reflect to you this full moon night, the concept of the pearls that you are, and to learn to discern between whether it is simply a glossy coating hiding something at the core that you do not want to face, or whether it is truly the outgrowth of experience and positive definition that will allow you to become the shiny reflective pearl that you are that in its surface reflects all attributes of creation.



### Bruise

**Questioner:** I have a question about the location of a bruise on my left knee and behind it rather, and this is something that was pointed out to me yesterday by someone doing body work. I'm unaware of its source and I wonder could this be related to an abduction scenario or anything like that?

**Bashar:** We find at this time that it is possible, though for some reason we cannot be definitive about this, which usually means that you yourself are at a position and in your process where there might be more information yet to come before we are capable of giving you a definitive answer that will seal your mind as to this particular issue.

**Questioner:** And the next item, I'm seeking the place where a marriage that I was involved in is recorded. What county in Mexico? I have not been able to locate where it is recorded.

**Bashar:** I cannot help you with this.

**Questioner:** Can you suggest how I might proceed to help myself?

**Bashar:** Define again the location on your planet where at least in general you believe that this was recorded.

**Questioner:** Well, that's the difficulty. The ceremony took place in Tijuana and there are a variety of places where it may be recorded, such as Alisco or there are many possibilities.

**Bashar:** In what year of your counting did this take place?

**Questioner:** I believe it's 1973. And I wanted to verify that with you too. I think it's August 13, 1973.

**Bashar:** This will be close enough. But the idea is that the original document has been destroyed.

**Questioner:** That's true.

**Bashar:** There is only in this sense a small notation on a small piece of paper that remains. Not really what you would call an official recording. There is a record, but it is not an official document.

**Questioner:** Okay. How can I find that?

**Bashar:** The area that you have named that you call Haliscoco will do for the beginning of your search. It may be there. But remember, it is a small rectangular piece of paper on which a notation has been made. There may even be a small stamp upon it, but it is not in that sense recognizable as an official document since that was destroyed.

**Questioner:** Well, every bit will help. I thank you for that.

**Bashar:** One moment. We are receiving the idea that what might be of benefit to you would be to be there inquiring about this in some manner with something that has to do with the number of five. In other words, it might be that the fifth day of the month might be more auspicious for finding this out, or you may need to be inquiring of a certain official on the 5th or at what you would call 5:00 p.m. in order to be at the right place at the right time in terms of your timing. So look for the idea of the synchronicity in your life revealing to you what might appear to be a need to be somewhere either on the 5th or at 5:00 p.m. or concerning something that has to do strongly with the number of five with regard to the timing of when it is you are there and when it is you are asking for this information and with whom it is you are conferring.

**Questioner:** Thank you. That is the only clue at this time that we can give you regarding this subject. I appreciate that very much. And I'd like to ask also, guys, how if you can give me sort of hints or appraisal of how I'm progressing or any homework.

**Bashar:** You want homework?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Are you sure?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Are you positive?

**Questioner:** I am positive.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right then. I will give you homework. One moment. We will confer. What is the next seashore that you will go to during the day? Do you have any particular kind of occasion and or trip planned or in the offing where you will spend some time on a beach somewhere?

**Questioner:** I hadn't, but that is a possibility and I can certainly arrange it.

**Bashar:** One moment. When next you find yourself in your timing on the seashore, spend some time on that shore within yourself in meditation. Let yourself be attracted to a particular rock. We will not tell you what to look for specifically. We will see how you do. But be attracted. Let yourself be attracted without looking for it. Without looking for it, without saying, "Let's see. I need to find a rock." Let yourself simply automatically find the rock that you need to find and then when you do and when this has come to pass we will discuss this with you further.


### Azie

**Questioner:** I would like to ask you if Azie, who we talked about last week, is a hybrid or a gray.

**Bashar:** More in the nature of a hybrid.

**Questioner:** Okay. I know that you recently channeled a gray and I would like to ask that if not, I know tonight I have other issues I'd like to discuss with you, but perhaps the next time we meet if it would be possible to talk with him.

**Bashar:** We do not know.

**Questioner:** All right, I'll try it then. The concept of grays being individuals and I know you discussed this with Robert recently and you said that if a gray was to become an individual that they would in a sense be blocked from telepathic communication with the other grays.

**Bashar:** In some senses, yes.

**Questioner:** Well, the story that I'm working on involves the idea of one of the grays learning to become more of an individual. Would that be conceivable or would it need to be a hybrid for that to be valid?

**Bashar:** It is conceivable.

**Questioner:** Okay. And this entity would not be in a sense banished from the other grays for evolving.

**Bashar:** In some senses it might be. So that should be in a sense reflected in the story.

**Questioner:** There are no shoulds. It is up to your own creative imagination. But I am simply telling you it is conceivable and possible. Okay. The other idea is that in this particular story the human, the female human who is my protagonist, also learns to become a member of a group just as the grays are learning to become individuals.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** And through this she as a botanist who specializes in exotic flowers is invited to participate with a group of other humans. I was going to focus on reforestation and her being invited to participate in that concept. Now I understand that Major Ed Dames is just one individual who is giving his opinion of a possible future in which pathogenic plant particles might destroy all of the plant life on Earth. And I understand that this is just a possible reality. But in light of these predictions and the probable reality that it portrays, would it be better for my purposes to have my protagonist focus instead on a type of a project such as a biosphere rather than reforestation?

**Bashar:** I am not a story consultant.

**Questioner:** Okay, then I guess what I'm asking for is the probability that Major Ed's predictions might come to pass.

**Bashar:** 17%.

**Questioner:** 17%. Okay, that's a pretty good analysis. And thank you. It was also brought to my attention through an article that Don here read that somebody thought there was a connection between the grays and the dolphins in the sense that the dolphins put out a sonic ray or a sound that is able to temporarily paralyze their prey. And it was thought that perhaps the grays do the same thing to paralyze humans.

**Bashar:** In some senses, there is a correlation in that the vibration that they utilize or amplify in order to transfer human to their dimensional reality has the side effect of what you would call paralysis as a focusing device. In that if you are not paralyzed by the side effect, it would not necessarily be possible to allow the transfer to go to exactly the dimension that they wish you to go to. The paralysis is a side effect of locking you into one particular frequency so that you will arrive where they want you to. By unlocking from that, you while still in the field will then be capable with your own intention of visiting any different kind of parallel reality you so desire.

**Questioner:** You understand? So in a sense, we're co-creating the parallel reality of being with the grays when they do the paralysis with us.

**Bashar:** Yes. In being aligned with the frequency that they have infused upon you, you are agreeing to match the frequency of their reality. And so in that sense, participate or interact with them in their domain of signature vibration. By unlocking from it, you are free to go to whatever parallel reality experience you wish, as long as you remain within the energy field.

**Questioner:** Well, what about the humans? I don't include myself in this group, but what about the humans who are so terrified of these interactions and are asking that they cease? Are they also co-creating this agreement to be in that reality?

**Bashar:** Then the fear is in many cases what amplifies the ability for the focus. The lack of fear and the generation of more positive and holistic vibration is what allows you to break free and make your own determination as to which parallel reality you wish to focus on. They are using the fear vibration, the survival fear vibration, as a keying mechanism to help maintain the singularity of vibratory focus that delivers you into their domain or dimensional reality frequency because it is so fundamental within your human species. It is an easy one for them to activate to maintain the frequency pitch. When you have integrated this more within yourselves and are no longer capable of being panicked in the survival modality, then you are capable of operating on more of an equal frequency and capable of going where you wish.

**Questioner:** Okay. Or staying where you are. Uhhuh. Thank you. Do you understand?

**Bashar:** Yes, I do.

**Questioner:** How does that help you? Yes. On another area, Max the Crystal Skull was recently in this particular location and some of us here got to interact with him. I've had many interactions with Max.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right.

**Questioner:** And Joanne, who is his caretaker, is a very dear friend of mine. And I know that you've told me in the past that I am part of the network of people or entities that created the crystal skulls.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** And I was wondering if Max is the one that I created.

**Bashar:** All right. Well I feel they are all in a sense of one creation with many hands helping. You helped in many of them including that one. But to say is it the one I created as if it were an entire act unto itself by an aspect of you alone is misleading.

**Questioner:** Okay, that's a good point. You understand you had a hand in it. Right. Yes. The Mitchell Hedges one has come under question as to its originality because there are some of our scientists who feel that it's not an ancient skull and yet I felt a very strong connection.

**Bashar:** It is an ancient skull. In fact, it is the most ancient of all.

**Questioner:** Thank you. Is that why I had the strongest connection with that particular one?

**Bashar:** It is the most pure in that sense. The idea is that it is actually quite difficult for your human technology to figure out any kind of age for pure quartz crystal at all. Therefore, it is in that sense misleading and they are to some degree mostly going off of what they believe to be cultural associations to determine its age, which also are very misleading since it was handed down from culture to culture over long periods of time. But it is at least so far the most ancient one that you know of. There are others more ancient yet to be found.

**Questioner:** Well, a lot of people are focusing on the fact that Anna Mitchell Hedges seems to change her story and it doesn't seem to be very consistent.

**Bashar:** It does not matter. This to some degree might be the side effect of several different things. Number one, exposure to the skull itself over time, exposure to parallel realities over time because of exposure to the skull. Also, the idea of desire and intention as to exactly what portions of society to interact with. To put it euphemistically, she is quite fed up with many aspects of your society in terms of how people interact with her regarding the skull. So, there will from time to time be stories that she will intentionally make up to be misleading.

**Questioner:** Okay. My birthday is on Tuesday and I was wondering if Thank you. I was wondering if you had any birthday gifts.

**Bashar:** I see. Do you usually go around to your friends inquiring whether they have birthday gifts?

**Questioner:** No, but I thought perhaps you or one of my guides or my higher self might have words of wisdom to share.

**Bashar:** Do you think that if we did, you would not receive them.

**Questioner:** This is true.

**Bashar:** Okay. Then happy birthday. And also, see what happens on Tuesday.

**Questioner:** Okay. And Adam's birthday is on March 7th. I was wondering if you had any guidance as to what he might enjoy for his birthday.

**Bashar:** No comment at this time.

**Questioner:** Thank you.

**Bashar:** On your birthday, you will figure that out yourself and that will be part of your birthday present. 


### Number Three

**Questioner:** your ancient language. Is it reptilian?

**Bashar:** No. No. Our ancient language is not reptilian.

**Questioner:** What how ancient a language are you talking about?

**Bashar:** Now again you must understand the difference between our dimensional time frame and your dimensional time frame. As far as you are concerned, the language doesn't even exist yet or is in its rudimentary formation. From our perspective, it is in that sense about 2500 years old. Do you understand? So it's from the hybrids.

**Questioner:** Yes, of course. Our predecessors. It is an amalgamation of many different languages, many of which are actually human languages on Earth.

**Questioner:** Oh, okay. There are a few other intershings of other languages and other concepts from other alien races. But in fact, the broad majority of the foundation of our hybrid language is a hybridization of many of the languages on your planet. Some of which are also very ancient. So if you wish to give it that kind of ancientness in terms of how it began, then yes, you can go back several thousand years to some of the ancient languages on your planet to find derivatives and roots to the language that we ultimately were given.

**Questioner:** Okay. But that would still be humanoid.

**Bashar:** Yes. Okay. And Haron I believe is the pronunciation. Are you and Heron counterpoints like you and Daryl are in any sense?

**Bashar:** No. Okay.

**Questioner:** What was the third thing I wanted to discuss? Oh, I know. When you were talking to Jill about the resonance, I found that in interactions with Zeta or Gray that I have now the ability to recognize that I'm interacting and to decide that I don't want to and I pop back into my reality.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** So I'm wondering now from what you said, it seems that the application would be that since the fear factor doesn't get me anymore and it's not usable by them, that if I apply my joy to that degree and then focus it on them that I can pop in and visit.


### Number Four

**Questioner:** Last week after we spoke, I had an incredible dream that night. A credible dream. Yes. And it was actually a dream within a dream which I don't recall having before.

**Bashar:** Why congratulations.

**Questioner:** In the interior dream, I was lying on a metal table and there was a being behind me and he was, I believe he was inserting an implant in my left ear.

**Bashar:** All right. Yes.

**Questioner:** And I could feel the pain. But I said to myself, "Breathe. You can handle this and it's all right." And I also remember communicating with this being telepathically and saying, "Don't show me your face. I'll be too frightened and I'll wake up."

**Bashar:** All right. Can you tell me is there a reason why? Well, congratulations on seeing beneath the dream clothes.

**Questioner:** Oh, thank you. Well, I breathed through that and that was all right. And then I woke up in the other dream in the outside dream and I was lying in bed and then a jungle cat was living in my house. A big beautiful cat.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** And it had been apparently there had been a channeling session at my house two weeks earlier and someone had given this cat to me as a gift. And the cat had been hiding in the closet and she came out when I woke up from this dream.

**Bashar:** Congratulations. The cat being the symbol of learning to see into other dimensions clearly, being a jungle cat meaning that it is in a sense more fundamental, larger scale, more powerfully representative than that which you would call the domestic symbolically, not literally but symbolically. And thus by coming out of the closet you have found an aspect of your power and brought it forth so that you can see more clearly into other dimensional realms and know more of what is actually going on in your reality and your life. Great. Congratulations.

**Questioner:** Thank you. Well, I'm sorry to say that in the dream what I am.

**Bashar:** Excuse me. You are what?

**Questioner:** Okay, I won't say that.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right. You can if you want, but you don't have to be sorry about anything.

**Questioner:** Okay. Well, when I woke up still in the other dream and saw this cat and I knew that the cat wouldn't hurt us, but I said, "This cat can't live in a modern apartment like this. I need to call someone and find out where I can give this cat to."

**Bashar:** Why are you sorry about that? It is a recognition of the idea of the appropriate vibrational environment in which the idea of your new found reflective self needs to, shall we say, survive and inhabit.

**Questioner:** Why are you sorry about that recognition? Oh, I'm not sorry anymore. Thank you. Does that help illuminate the idea of the symbology therein?

**Bashar:** Yes. That you need to now be more representative in your reality of the correct environment that expresses your newfound power and self-recognition. So, back to the jungle for you. Back to nature for you. Back to what is natural for you. That's the symbol. Back to where you can feel at home.

**Questioner:** Okay. Does that make some sense?

**Bashar:** Yes. All right. Continue.

**Questioner:** Does this mean that I have an implant now in my ear?

**Bashar:** Yes. Yes. Okay. You've had several. Many of your people have had several. Sometimes they are removed. Sometimes they are put back. But yes.

**Questioner:** What's the purpose of this implant?

**Bashar:** Many things. Things that have to do with what you would call tracking. Things that have to do with what you would call absorption of information and downloading of that information. Things to do with the idea of aiding in the amplification of the generation field that sometimes causes the side effect of paralysis. Many different things. It is a multi-purpose mode.

**Questioner:** Okay. Another thing about that, April and I both noticed that we never see the faces of the beings. Is there a reason for that beyond making us fearful or frightening us? So, I think it would frighten me.

**Bashar:** You will find in a sense that you actually do see the faces. But in that sense, what you are doing is forgetting or being made to forget. You do see the faces. But the idea also is that holding on to the face is holding on to well, I'll put it euphemistically, the soul of those beings. You yourselves have the phrase, "The eyes are the window of the soul." Were you to truly remember the vibration of their eyes and their windows, you would recognize that you are looking at yourself. And so sometimes the forgetting is allowed to occur before you are ready to see yourself in that way and not be frightened by the self-reflection. Because if you are frightened by your own self, you might create a vibrational paradox that would disrupt the interaction. So it is to some degree utilized for the purpose of enticing you to know yourself more so that you will know them more fully, but doing it through the idea of giving you just enough of a memory that will drive you to remember but evade you to continue to drive you. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** In that sense, it is like a hypnotic lure. Something you must know that you can't know that you must know that you can't know that you must know can't know will push you evolutionarily into a new level of understanding and consciousness. And that is part of the reason why you are made to forget. It is not the only reason. Okay. Does that help you?

**Questioner:** Very much.

**Bashar:** Now then I would suggest to you this one thing we have suggested before and I mean this quite literally as an exercise. If you really want to gain some insight here, if you wish to literally make a mask of what you deem a gray to be, put it on your own face and look at yourself in the mirror and see what comes up. You understand? This is a powerful exercise. Go into it as many times as you wish. You will actually find that doing this will help you remember. But doing it will also help you remember that you are more connected than you might think. This may at first to some of your human consciousness feel very uncomfortable to know exactly how connected you are to them and they do you. But nevertheless, you will proceed at your own pace of comfort. But this is a strong exercise that will help you remember.

**Questioner:** All right. Okay. Does that help you? Helps me very much. Thank you.

**Questioner:** Two other questions. Number one. Last night there was a very strong earthquake in Santa Barbara.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right. I was strong meaning. Well, it felt strong to me. It was just strong. Oh, all right. Just strong.

**Questioner:** It wasn't frightened. Redeveloped your scale. Yes. I don't know what the number was. All right. It really frightened me. And I watched myself. I was in the observer mode saying, "I'm panicking." You know, and when I lived in LA, earthquakes didn't bother me, but I had thought that, you know, why does it now? Why do you imagine there might be a difference now? I guess I hadn't expected it. So, I have a feeling when I was a child in Illinois, there was an earthquake, which was unusual, and it sounded like footsteps. And I remember saying as a little girl, "He's coming to get me." Nice. And so I thought maybe that would be connected with an ET experience from when I was small. And maybe that fear was triggered again with that.

**Bashar:** Because you had created a lack of expectation for it in that sense and it took you by surprise. Yes. So you triggered yourself to have more memory of other experiences. That's why you gave yourself the opportunity to move to a location where you didn't expect the idea of quakes yet got one anyway. So that you would trigger yourself into more things that you have forgotten. And to learn to expect the unexpected.

**Questioner:** Okay. Another question. This is my last question. We'll see. I don't well, I'll just ask you anyway. Can you tell me if I'm pregnant?

**Bashar:** In what way? Do you mean humanly or hybridly?

**Questioner:** Either way.

**Bashar:** One moment. Let us say you are not technically what would be considered pregnant, but you have been prepared. Do you understand?

**Questioner:** No.

**Bashar:** There is a preparation mode that often occurs just before the idea of implantation. You are in a preparation stage ready to receive a temporary implantation but you are not yet implanted in that sense.

**Questioner:** Okay, you follow? I think so. Is there some confusion about this idea?

**Bashar:** Well, does that mean that I'm not humanly pregnant?

**Questioner:** Yes, that's what it means.

**Bashar:** Okay. But you are in preparatory stage. And so you are receiving in some senses energy signals that the way has been prepared for such a thing for such an implantation. Whether it be hybridized or humanized. But you are prepared. You are in that preparatory stage. You understand? And you are feeling the fullness of the energy of what might yet come in. And so feeling the fullness you feel to some degree already impregnated but you are not yet technically okay by any methodology yet.

**Questioner:** Are there some signs? See it wasn't your last question at all. Oh no. I'm sorry. Will there be some signs for me to look for in terms of the hybrid pregnancy?

**Bashar:** Look to your dreams and your interactions with anything that represents itself as a child in that dream state.

**Questioner:** Okay. All right. Thank you very much, Bashar.

---

### Number Five

**Bashar:** Dream. Thank you. You and you. Number two, do you know who you are? All right. Number one, good day.

**Questioner:** Good day, Bashar. And I just want to tell this young lady, you'll know, darling. You will know. I have so many questions and I'll try to make them short and you can make your answers as short as you like.

**Bashar:** Why, thank you. Thank you.

**Questioner:** Maybe a health problem, mundane problem. I've had this pain in my back sort of middle to lower on the left side.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** And I'm trying to figure out what it is cuz I don't like to feel anything but fabulous every day. I don't know if it's muscular or digestive. I was hoping maybe you could give me just a clue as to, you know, what road I might go down to deal with it.

**Bashar:** From time to time, you will find that as you organize yourself more holistically, you may thus come across more deeply buried things that have yet to be integrated within you, some of which may play themselves out eventually neurologically in your system. You may have now hit one of these things. So it's which in a sense is a sign of progress, but it does need to be integrated and smoothed out.

**Questioner:** Okay. So what do you suggest? Do I like eat more pure foods?

**Bashar:** Not so much that of course that will always be of assistance to your body. But the idea is that you may also require some assistance for the concept of treating your body well with regard to the concept of some form of either relaxation or manipulation or something that will allow you to feel more pampered, more smoothed into position, more aligned physiologically. You may attract some physical health for this if you wish. But the idea is that you may have now hit a nodal point in your physio-emotional makeup structure that now is sending signals along your neurological net because of a buildup over long periods of time of certain kinds of misalignments both emotional and physiological.

**Questioner:** Okay. I'll get some assistance on that. Also, I feel that a career one moment.

**Bashar:** What is also the amount of your water intake on a daily basis?

**Questioner:** Does that include mixed with coffee?

**Bashar:** It does not because you will find that that will be counterproductive to the idea of hydration. The idea of the intake of caffeine will dehydrate you in that sense and will actually take away whatever advantage you may have given yourself with the hydration. So you must completely cancel that idea out and allow yourself to really understand what pure hydration you may place within your body. How much water do you drink on its own?

**Questioner:** Not very much.

**Bashar:** You will find that this may also be of some disadvantage to your body's capabilities and especially your cellular and neurological capabilities to function as fluidly and malleably and flexibly as they need to. And this may also be causing some of what you are experiencing. And I would suggest that you attend to it along with the idea that you may need a little bit more of what you would call certain minerals such as potassium in your system at this time to make up for some of the depletion that you may be causing yourself with the dehydration through the idea of the ingestion of such substances as caffeine and nicotine. You understand?

**Questioner:** Oh yes, I do. Yeah, those are my favorites. It's a shame that they're not really good for you because they're so fun to do.

**Bashar:** You will find again the idea is that when you change your mind about certain things they will simply seem to be unnecessary. And that you will find that other things will be representative of fun. And the idea also is that if and when such things are representative of fun, they will simply happen automatically less often in the appropriate timing so that they will in fact not be detrimental to your body.

**Questioner:** Okay. I appreciate that. For the most part. In general, in your society, the usage of substances such as those usually are indicative of issues unresolved rather than the idea of being representative truly of your joy. Usually for the most part. Well, I'm sure I have many unresolved issues. Yes, I know. But that's all right. What makes you so interesting? Yes, we are, aren't we? Yes, you are.

**Questioner:** Let me ask you. I've been very into astral projection. I used to do it a lot more than I do. Being out. Absolutely. And I guess I've sort of neglected it recently because I found myself unable to really focus and target into places that I wanted to visit. See, I wonder why.

**Bashar:** Uh why I can't focus. Yes. Well, I'm undisciplined except on days that I'm disciplined which are few. It isn't even really so much always a matter of discipline as it is being in the appropriate state to allow it to function easily and automatically and naturally within you, which loading up on toxins and dehydration does not help. And if your body senses to put it this way that it cannot sustain itself naturally, it will not let go of any energy at all. You understand? It will keep you at home to run the show. So you will not in that sense allow yourself to expand beyond the level of the body consciousness until such time as you know the body consciousness in and of itself on its own level is well taken care of.

**Questioner:** Right. Well, I'll I can tell you I know that I tend I think to keep myself sort of grounded because there have been times when I've detoxed my body and I had so much energy I felt like I was hitting up against the etheric wall waiting to get out of here.

**Bashar:** Right. But again, you must trust the timing of these things for when it is really time for you to leave, you will leave and that will be appropriate. So do not bring fear and worry to the idea that you are going to leave before your time in that sense. At least not that way. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yeah, I do. It's just that there was the energy was so powerful I almost couldn't handle it, you know, to be that right.

**Bashar:** And I understand that many of you because you are afraid of your own power will do things to create the idea of what you perceive to be quote unquote more grounding which are not really grounding so much as they are simply disorienting enough that they prevent you from leaving your reality at all.

**Questioner:** Right. Well, and like I what I was about to tell you was that I was flirting with the idea of really becoming skilled at remote viewing, figuring that that might be a little more definitive. But yet I'm feeling like I might not want to abandon my out of the body stuff because that feels so much more sensational.

**Bashar:** Again, the idea is take care of yourself and yourself will automatically be thus capable of exhibiting many more traits than you may be exhibiting now in a much more fluid and flexible way.

**Questioner:** Okay, thanks for the reminder. Also, I wanted to, it's funny Jill asked you a question and my girlfriends are asking all the questions I was thinking about asking, but there was one other aspect to possibly the gray's origin and that is that they may have evolved from a cetacean dolphin-like life form.

**Bashar:** No. No. No.

**Questioner:** Interesting. Is it possible that many of us that are being contacted, this is just a notion that's been floating through my mind, that many of us have gray lifetimes and one of the things that we've done is come back to this particular dimension to be of assistance in the hybridization preservation process.

**Bashar:** Yes. That's what I thought. This is why we have said and many individuals have been told that you and the grays on one level are one.

**Questioner:** Also, I feel like a real shift is coming for me in terms of my career. There's a music thing that's very time on your planet. But there's something that's coming my way that's really feels right and joyful to me and it's music related and for some reason all of my stereo and music equipment is fritzing out on me and it's making me very uncomfortable.

**Bashar:** It is not making you uncomfortable. You have chosen to be uncomfortable with it as a result of congratulations. Do you not see it then as an opportunity for replacement of these things on a higher frequency bandwidth that is more in line with the bandwidth you prefer to operate on?

**Questioner:** Yeah, I do. I'm convinced. I just don't feel like putting the money into that right now because I'm So, you're back to that again, aren't you? Well, yeah, I guess I am. I guess you choose to operate on AM rather than FM. Ouch. Actually, I've been spending a little too much time with AM now that you mentioned it.

**Questioner:** One other question. We heard Ed Dames the other night and he's a remote viewer that was with the we understand. For some reason, I have this feeling that he may be giving us a little bit of disinformation possibly to cover the notion of I don't even know who to call these people that are sort of semi in control of this planet on a monitor.

**Bashar:** It's not that idea. It is simply the idea that the individual right now is simply attempting to continue to hone the process of being able to discern the difference between probable future realities and realities that have actually a high degree of momentum behind them and are likely to manifest.

**Questioner:** Okay. So his pathogen type scenario is not a cover in any way for a governmental cleansing of this planet to eliminate the population in any way.

**Bashar:** And only would it be so if members of your government would tend to use it that way because of their own idea of taking information but no it was not intended in that context. Do you see that as a very real possibility that there would be a viral type biological thing released to depopulate this planet. Your people are beyond nothing in that sense and yes it has been done. It has been done. But is it going to be on a level where it's really going to affect us to that extent? It is a probable reality. But is it yours? I don't want it to be. Well, there lies the true question. It is a probable reality. Anything you can imagine is going to happen on some probable parallel Earth. Is it your probable parallel Earth is the only question you need to concern yourself about.

**Questioner:** You know, the thing is that I've just not seen the shift so dramatically that I trust that I'm in a parallel reality.

**Bashar:** That's because you're not allowing the shift dramatically within yourself.

**Questioner:** Is that collectively that we're all not allowing that shift to be that?

**Bashar:** It is, but you only have to focus on the shift you are allowing or not allowing within yourself to perceive whether or not anyone else is also allowing it within their own reality. Thank you for that verification. Remember that? Yeah, I do. All right.

**Questioner:** One more thing and I swear this is just one more thing. Since my last interaction, I have not had any conscious interactions. However, I find myself falling asleep, needing rest and almost like a zombie heading for the bed and staying there more.

**Bashar:** This is usually indicative of the idea of being urged toward interaction.

**Questioner:** Oh, really? So, I am interacting usually. I am interacting, but I'm just not conscious of it.

**Bashar:** Yes. Not every time you have felt that way has been representative of an interaction but several times have.

**Questioner:** So what's going on there? Is it reptilian, gray, am I visiting my kiddos, what's going on?

**Bashar:** It might be several portions of different agendas. We are not going to be that discerning at this point.

**Questioner:** Okay, I have so many questions. I'll let someone else move. Thank you so much.

---

### Number Six

**Bashar:** Number two.

**Questioner:** Bashar and a you good day. Very happy to be here. I've listened to your tapes before and also I've read your book.

**Bashar:** We are very happy that you are there. Thank you.

**Questioner:** The reason I'm here tonight to ask you a couple of questions on a more mundane level.

**Bashar:** You do not need to judge. All things that you consider to be important are important.

**Questioner:** My purpose here on this planet is to be yourself. To be myself. And also I have a mission that I'm working on.

**Bashar:** Your mission, what you are calling your purpose and your mission are simply expressions of your real goal, real purpose, real mission, which is to be the you you are as best you can be. I understand what you are referring to when your people say, "I have a mission. I have a purpose." But those are not really your mission and purpose. They are the natural expression of the mission and purpose of being yourself. There is a fundamental and profound difference in looking at it this way. But do continue.

**Questioner:** Thank you for that clarification. I wondered if what you might see in terms of what I'm involved in at the governmental level.

**Bashar:** I all I have to do is ask you one question and get one answer to determine whether or not you are aligned with your highest purpose and that is are you doing whatever you deem to be the most exciting thing you can imagine doing or not. Yes or no? Yes, there was some hesitation in your voice.

**Questioner:** Well, it's because I haven't really I've been talking about it for almost 10 years and it's and when will you do it? I hope to be doing it within the next couple of weeks if I can get back to Congress. I've lobbied Congress in the past and what I am embarking upon is something very large but it will be the kind of a thing that it'll be throwing out the Internal Revenue Code, challenging the system in its entirety.

**Bashar:** Are you doing this out of love?

**Questioner:** Oh, absolutely.

**Bashar:** All right. To restore the Constitution, then the idea is to simply continue to follow what it is you love to do. But I also remind you of this. It is not really about quote unquote changing your system. It is about implementing alternative systems. That's really what you need to lay a foundation for. By all means, continue to go about your communications if you feel that they are assisting you as long as you do them in a constructive manner. Certainly, you might be able to reflect to other people that they have an opportunity to make the kind of changes that you are talking about. At the same time, I would caution you not to put too much emphasis on the idea of needing to change an old system as much as recognizing that what you actually are doing is implementing ideas for an alternative system so that if and when an old system will ultimately collapse under its own weight, alternative systems will already be in place to take up where they left off.

**Questioner:** Thank you. That is exactly what I'm working on with the nonprofit corporation I set up some years ago. We have the alternative tax plan. And also it has to do with repealing the Federal Reserve Act and changing the monetary system.

**Bashar:** And I wondered if you understand what you are doing. You are reclaiming what you typically call your sovereignty.

**Questioner:** Exactly. Exactly. And I wondered from your perspective what you felt.

**Bashar:** It is a direct example and reflection of the idea now rampant upon your planet of reclaiming your self-empowerment. This is why it is so important to do it through clarity, positive and constructive and loving communication.

**Questioner:** Oh, I always attempt to do that. Now, you always attempt to or you I always do that to the best of my ability. Thank you. That's all you need to do. So, yes, it is highly reflective, shall we say, sign of the times of the transformation on your planet because it is very strongly representative of reclaiming one's own self-empowerment and taking full responsibility for one's reality creation.

**Questioner:** And you do believe that we'll be successful. I've never doubted that we'll be successful.

**Bashar:** No, I do not believe you will be successful. I know you will be because I know. Pay attention. Pay attention. Do not put in a sense words in the channel's mouth. Pay attention. I know you will be successful because I know you are a success now. Do you understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. Thank you. And that's when you will experience the idea of your truth when you know that that reality exists for you. Now actually I've never doubted that we the people will overcome and we will reclaim our country and our planet however perspective we want to put it.

**Bashar:** It's not so much a matter of overcoming though I will not necessarily bandy semantics with you. I know what you mean. The idea, however, of course, is that it may take a little bit different form than you might imagine, as even some of the parameters laid down in what you would call your early constitution in your country could also deal with a little bit of changing and transformation. So you will find that ultimately it will work itself out to certainly be representative of something closer to what you deem a republic to be. But it will also go far beyond that in terms of true equality, responsibility and creativity in terms of the true wealth which is of course the people themselves.

**Questioner:** Yes. I do not believe I am providentially protected and I do not worry about my it's not even an issue of protection.

**Bashar:** The vibration you are on doesn't even necessarily warrant the need to be protected. It is simply far away and above the concept of even needing that and therefore it is invisible to you. Anything that would seek to be detrimental would simply not be of your reality domain and could not be perceived.

**Questioner:** Many people are concerned about my being done away with because of the nature of the work that I'm doing.

**Bashar:** Then perhaps it's a good thing that you are not them. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I do believe that I'm not going to be interfered with and that the statement I have just given you says it all. It perhaps then is a good thing that you are not them. Understand that statement fully and you will understand that you do not need to be concerned about that concept. Unless you choose to be and then by choosing to be concerned you yourself of course will automatically create a reason for being concerned. Do you understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. I've made some major transitions in my life in the last year.

**Bashar:** Congratulations. Thank you. Time for some general and admiral transitions.

**Questioner:** I'm sorry. What was that? You made some major. Now it's time for some general and admiral transition. Oh. Oh. Okay. Yes. Well, I was at a military base that I was at Wednesday.

**Bashar:** So, you are in that sense by simply being yourself as is true with anyone. Then of course doing good work. Congratulations for following your joy. Never doubt your own nature and your own truth. That's the only thing that will create the reality experientially that you know yourself to be.

**Questioner:** All right. Yes. One question here. Do you can you perceive any particular congressman? I have a couple of people in mind that I want to talk with when I go back there again. Do you have any input on who you think might be of value to us?

**Bashar:** We will help you in the dream state to determine this.

**Questioner:** All right. Well, I did have a dream about one once before and I have written perhaps then we are in your future. It has already happened. So then what is your dream? The dream that I had some years ago. Well, this particular congressman was on the House Banking and Finance Committee. He came out to Orange County and gave a presentation on the money system and the new money that the Federal Reserve had printed up and he was rebelling or not rebelling but he was complaining about the type of money. This was 10 years ago, over 10 years ago.

**Bashar:** Are you in contact with this individual now?

**Questioner:** I was then. He ran for the US Senate. He lost to Senator Phil Graham. He was just recently reelected and I intend to see him and I do believe he is going to be a very important ally in this.

**Bashar:** Continue to pursue this avenue. But again, always follow your highest joy. But again, the dream is what you need to follow. And once again, you will be assisted in the dream state.

**Questioner:** Oh, good. All right. Yes. Dream and my son. I wanted to ask one question that is not related to this but he does feel some connection with grays and I wonder what you felt.

**Bashar:** Age 15 and a half. Name Jeffrey or Jeff? Full vibrational name Jeff. Jeff Jeffrey Unrew. Location on your planet currently Manhattan Beach. Although we he and I moved to San Juan Capistrano and the judge because of my divorce said he must go back with his father. He is now living in Manhattan Beach.

**Bashar:** Is having experiences?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Having interactions?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** One of the reasons at this timing just to give you some insight into the understanding of the synchronicity and timing of these things. One of the reasons why right now in his life the connection to the father needs to exist is because it is to some degree reflecting some of the connections that he is experiencing in his interactions with some of the grays. One of whom he actually in some senses considers to be a father figure.

**Questioner:** He doesn't my ex-husband his father is a very kind of a negative person and he's very difficult to be around and it's hard on my son and I know in dealing with those things it is helping him understand how to incorporate certain things within himself that will aid and assist him in his understanding of his interactions not only with the gray but the things that he needs to incorporate within himself in the future in terms of achieving balance within himself.

**Bashar:** Do not be afraid. I have given you some insight into some of the reasons because some of the things going on between him and his father are reflective and representative of some of the things that he needs to understand with regard to his relationship to the grays and a particular gray that he considers to be a father figure. Do you understand this?

**Questioner:** Well, I think so. Does he have a positive good relationship with this gray person?

**Bashar:** Let's just say it is to some degree neutral, which to him would be positive. You understand? neutral. In other words, that it isn't negative would be positive. Do you understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. I can relate to that.

**Bashar:** Therefore, it represents to him the possibility of the balancing of the male energy and father figure energy within himself because he is given an opportunity to see that kind of energy in what would euphemistically be called a neutral state rather than a negative one in those encounters. So, he is being given an opportunity to learn how to balance the energy that he is receiving from his biological father, so to speak. You understand that? Is this making any sense to you?

**Questioner:** I think so. Yeah.

**Bashar:** All right. Sleep on it. You will be given some assistance with it. We promise.

**Questioner:** All right. Thank you. Thank you. Does that help you? Yes, it does. What do you feel or what do you see my connection? I've had a lot of experience over the years.

**Bashar:** Sleep on it. You will be given some assistance and a continuation of conversation in your dream state. We promise. All right. In that state, you will be more capable also for now of understanding all the things we are saying on all the levels we are saying it. All right? So, relax, open up, let go, go to sleep and have the communication that you really need to hear. All right? Thank you. Thank you. Bye.

---

### Number Seven

**Questioner:** Good evening, Bashar. Hello everyone. Good day. Good day. I bet you don't know what I want to talk about.

**Bashar:** Well, since our society doesn't have any money, I can't really place a bet anywhere.

**Questioner:** Would the name crop circles be familiar?

**Bashar:** Oh, it strikes a chord. Good.

**Questioner:** Mathematically speaking, which chord?

**Bashar:** Which chord does it strike? The ones that have to do with circles. Do you not find in what you would call your mathematical nomenclature that the idea of chords have to do with measurements of circles? Look it up if you are not familiar with this. But you will find that the term chord has to do with the idea of intersections and lines and measurements that have to do with circles.

**Questioner:** Oh, good. Okay. And that is also a clue for you.

**Questioner:** Thanks for the clue. You are welcome.

**Questioner:** A man in a store said to me the other day he said magical phenomenon and as I was driving home I was struck by how in our society we've just about had all the magic squeezed out of us.

**Bashar:** A wall. Right. Yes.

**Questioner:** And how one of the you know how often you get blank walls from people when you're discussing this with a new person and if they haven't seen the photos and da da da or your own family members.

**Bashar:** Yes. And so is this of importance to you?

**Questioner:** It is in a sense that it's part of why we haven't caught on to the joy that we could be.

**Bashar:** Yes, I understand that. But what's that got to do with you and the fact that you know your own joy? Why are you concerned about the blank walls that others will create when you yourself know that no blank walls exist for you in your excitement? Are you doing what you do in an attempt to take responsibility for other people again?

**Questioner:** No.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right then. What is this conversation about?

**Questioner:** It's about yes. Okay. Well, I there was actually another subject to do. You may shift gears if you wish. Good.

**Questioner:** Obviously there's an extraterrestrial connection and many people therefore because the grays are on so many people's minds assume that the grays have something to do with us.

**Bashar:** Well, they have something to do with it. But what do you mean? Just what I said. They have something to do with it. Since we have already told you that this is to some degree a collective phenomenology. So anything that you are dealing with now and anything at all that's interacting with your species in some way, shape or form on some level to some degree is involved. But it may be very peripheral. It may be specific at certain times. They have something to do with it. But that doesn't necessarily mean anything in particular. You have to take it case by case.

**Questioner:** And so are they would just be one of the many.

**Bashar:** Let me put it this way. Do you have something to do with the fact that your city has a certain population? Well, I'm one of Thank you. Then you have something to do with it, don't you? Is this confusing?

**Questioner:** No.

**Bashar:** Then what is your hesitation about this? You are trying too hard. Keep it simple. Do you have something to do with the population of your city? Just the fact that you exist in the city, doesn't that mean you have something to do with the number that someone would come up when counting heads?

**Questioner:** Well, I'm kind of in the same neighborhood as what? As others in the city. So, so, so it has something to do with the ultimate number that someone would come up with when taking a census of the general city in which you live. You have something to do with the final number by living there, don't you?

**Bashar:** Yeah. Well, then the grays have something to do with the crop circles. But it doesn't seem like they're very directly involved. Did I say that? No. I just want to clarify this. It has been cleared. You will not let it clear. Sometimes they may have something more specific from time to time to do with it, but many times they don't. They are simply as peripheral as you are with regard to the concept of the census of your city. But sometimes they may be more directly involved in the same way that you might be more from time to time more directly involved with the goings on of your city. Does that make sense to you? That's all we are saying.

**Questioner:** Yeah. All right. And are there other civilizations from other planetary systems that are more directly involved than some kinds?

**Bashar:** Are you looking for a pat answer, Patricia? Yes. Not going to get one in this phenomenology in that context. It fluctuates. It fluctuates. It fluctuates.

**Questioner:** I'll ask you this question. Are you familiar with the idea of what you call the color green? Yes. All right. Now, when I say green, you understand there are also many different shades of green, do you not? Many many different tones. You understand? Oh yeah. All right. Now in the idea of pigment, the creation of green is generally the product of the blending of blue and yellow. You follow me? So is yellow involved? Yes. In the creation of green? Yes. Is blue? Yes. All right. Now, is yellow involved in the creation of forest green? Yes. But to the same degree it is involved in the creation of lime green? Ah, no. Well, then sometimes the grays are more involved as in lime green. Sometimes the grays are less involved as in forest green. Are the grays lime green? No, I'm kidding. No, because then you would call them the greens. So, does that help illuminate the idea a little bit more clearly for you? Yes, it does. It does. Then from there you wish to proceed to what? To the luminosities. Luminosities. All right. Let us speak of illumination. Okay. The connection to Sirius to sixth dimension. Is this where they seem to be popping through from?

**Bashar:** That would be very misleading. The idea of the level you recognize Sirius consciousness, sixth density to exist upon is involved. Saying that they pop through from there might be misleading, but it is involved in the making up of the matrix. Yes, the Sirius energy, shall we say, adds well an oomph to the phenomenon that allows you to perceive it in certain ways, especially with regard to the idea of the quality and nature of light. So yes, it is in that sense very involved, but to simply say does it pop through from there is misleading and misdirecting. Does that help? Well, the oomph, yes, is kind of like the Well, it's like saying you are baking a cake or any kind of confection. You could say that in this case, Sirius is the sugar. How much sugar determines how sweet. You understand? So, if there were less sugar, the phenomenon would not be quite as perceptible. But the fact that the Sirius energy is involved to the degree that it is gives it to some degree the quality of luminosity that it has in the same way that the sugar would give the cake the quality of sweetness that it might have.

**Questioner:** Oh, I see. In terms of kind of balance and scale.

**Bashar:** Yes. Exactly. Yes.

**Questioner:** Ah, okay. So the connection and resonant identification vibration of the Sirius connection that exists on your planet that reflection is utilized to help manipulate that phenomenology so that you will perceive the illumination in the way that you do. That is the factor that is used to help fine-tune the illumination on that particular level. Does that make sense to you? Yeah. I was talking specifically about the balls of light and I said Sirius.

**Bashar:** Yes, I know. The Sirius energy is utilized in the formation of that to help give it certain kinds of luminary quality. It's not the only thing involved, right? But the luminous quality, the quality of the light to some degree has a lot to do with the involvement of Sirius energy. And the reflection of Sirius energy to all of you because you contain Sirius energy as well. So it is reflective on one level of your connection to Sirius all of you and sometimes more specifically to specific individuals who may be observing the phenomenon directly. So also the quality of the luminosities will also vary depending upon the individual that may be perceiving them. You follow? Depending upon the degree of awareness of the Sirius connection that an individual may have within themselves will determine the way that they actually perceive the luminosities and of course the degree of other connections that the luminosity represents in terms of how it is being manipulated within the electromagnestic etheric energy of your world.

**Questioner:** Does this apply to seeing it on film as well as in person?

**Bashar:** Yes. Because your film is only an extension of your consciousness as a tool. So there's some people who actually see that piece of film and they can they don't see the luminosity as well. That is extreme. That will be rarely the case. For the most part, your people have learned to put a lot of their trust into the concept of their technology that you call film. But yes, from time to time you will find there may still be variance within even the idea of the extra sensory perception that many of you believe film is capable of giving you. But that will be rare that they will not perceive it in any way, shape or form once it has in a sense been committed to film. You follow?

**Questioner:** Yeah. And the sound that's going on before a crop circle.

**Bashar:** Again, sometimes this is simply indicative of shifts in resonance in frequency in the gathering together in the organization of the particular electromagnetic matrix that may be being utilized in the creation of such.

**Questioner:** Are there different sounds for different pitches sometimes?

**Bashar:** Yes. Would you say there less than 10 used overall or more than 25? There have been as many as 30 different pitches so far. There will be more.

**Questioner:** Okay. And I to get back to the question of the magic.

**Bashar:** Yes.

**Questioner:** I guess I asked it because I obviously am interested in helping people realize that we do live in a magical world all the time.

**Bashar:** Yes. Well, just by being yourself, the individuals who are willing to be helped in realizing that will be attracted to you magically. So, in other words, when you see one of those stone faces go down, you just turn the corner rather than bump into it. You can always, as you say, share what you want to share. But why beat your head against the stone wall? You understand? You don't have to crack it. Go the direction that you need to go. Once you have made an attempt, if you see that it is simply having no effect, why would you want to spend more energy trying to have a bigger effect when obviously it is not important that you do?

**Questioner:** It seems too though that not believing in magic also plays a part in people being afraid to say something is magical or this film is real because they're afraid that they're going to be caught and of course it plays a part that they're wrong. So and is this something that has developed because of Santa Claus because of in our childhood that yes in some senses you are perceptive in that your world has trained you to be disappointed in that sense then yes many times individuals are now quote unquote by habit afraid to believe in the magic because they are afraid to be disappointed again.

**Bashar:** But we're all kind of born magical beings of course and then we hit this amazing downfall or or disappointment. Yes. But this chain of behavior has been being taught for thousands of years and when you are born you begin to absorb it telepathically immediately. Right. Really by the time in that sense even sometimes you are a year old but definitely by the time you are three of your years old you're usually locked into the telepathic matrix pretty well, right? Different degrees of course for different individuals depending upon different circumstances but in general you are locked in by about age three. Therefore you will also recapitulate some of the things that you have absorbed telepathically and it is now important to break those chains. Yes. And obviously that's something that crop circles are doing for huge amounts of people.

**Questioner:** Yes. You are talking to yourselves in your dream states waking yourselves up through those symbols. In that sense, it is like the symbology of the collective consciousness that is dreaming itself awake.

**Bashar:** You are talking to yourself. Now, I will give you another tool to play with if you wish. All right. We have some time ago given you the following formula to determine the vibratory frequency of anything. That is take what you would call just to use the example of a planet the circumference of that world in whatever measurements you wish let us say for now for you in miles you understand yes and you divide that by what you call the speed of light in the same denomination in miles per such and such you follow yes by dividing the speed of light into the circumference you will arrive at the appropriate frequency the appropriate wavelength and frequency for that particular world or circumference. So since a circumference is a circle, you can then take the crop circles and in measuring some of the actual circles, dividing the circumference by the speed of light will actually give you the frequency of that circle. By matching with electromagnetic energy in any way, shape or form you wish to or other forms of energy that frequency, you will create a null point while in that circle as long as that circle still exists. And by creating that null point, by matching its frequency, you can actually create an unlocking of a reality domain and perceive a slippage of spacetime. So match the frequency of the circles by dividing the speed of light into their circumference and then recreating the vibration somehow in the presence of that circle. Doesn't even have to be the entire glyph. Even a single circle within it sometimes will do.

**Questioner:** Well, that's what I was going to ask you because they're so large now.

**Bashar:** And we are starting simply for you. So start with a single circle. Start with the circles. It will to some degree also work with anything that is a triangle. So take the measurement of the three sides, treat it as a circumference and divide it by the speed of light. You will get the appropriate frequency that you need to use in order to replay it while in that formation in that particular area of the formation. Then you will experience disorientation at first perhaps, but a true unlocking of reality domains as you yourself create the null point, the zero point.

**Questioner:** Okay. But how do you play the frequency?

**Bashar:** I just told you any way you wish. It can be sonically, it can be electromagnetically as long as it is actually radiating within the presence of the circle somehow technologically. Do you understand? You can even sing it if you could match the frequency, but that may be more difficult for your human vocal cords than an electronic device that could recreate the idea of the tonal sound or frequency pitch. You follow? So if you find that you come up with an answer, let's say for a particular circle that it is 3 million cycles per second, then you need to literally create an electronic signal or an acoustic sound that vibrates at 3 million cycles per second and play it in that circle. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes, I do. When the young boy who took the photograph of Oliver's Castle luminosities and the circle being made this summer, what was the cycles per second?

**Bashar:** You must find that out. He was experiencing you must find that out. Do your homework. I have just given you the tool. So he would take your measurements. Do your homework. He would have been hearing. He may have although if he was not directly in it at the formation he may have heard peripheral offshoot harmonics the cycles per second would still be in there but also remember there are many different diameters within that particular formation and therefore many different harmonic overlaps. Do you understand? Now that's another thing you can do especially if a formation happens to be a number of different circles of different circumference and diameter. You can actually recreate all of the different ones and create the same harmonic overlap. And in actual fact, here it comes. You will find that if you do it in the right way, you will actually start creating circles. You understand? If you create the harmonic overlap in the right way, electronically or acoustically, as long as the amplitude is the appropriate amplitude, the appropriate power behind the radiance of that frequency, you can actually see yourself creating circles in the wheat. It will obey you just as much as it obeys everything. If you create, recreate the appropriate pitch.

**Questioner:** If that's the case, then the luminosities are sometimes there to be witnesses.

**Bashar:** Yes, they function that way as well. But there are also many different kinds of things that we will discuss at a later time. You may find that when you achieve the appropriate harmonic, you may also see luminosities.

**Questioner:** Ah, very good. Could you be in one luminosity?

**Bashar:** The way you have asked that, I will say yes if you take it quite literally because all is within. And if you remember what we talked about this day of your time in terms of the pearl, you may understand something even more profound about the luminosities than you think. Thank you.

---

### Number Eight

**Bashar:** Female then male. Number two, do you know who you are? All right. Number one, good day.

**Questioner:** Good day to you. It's been a while since we interacted all in this way.

**Bashar:** Time is relative. Do proceed.

**Questioner:** I'm currently studying with a Brazilian healer and working with an energy of the seventh ray or eighth ray. Are you familiar with this?

**Bashar:** Yes, it makes sense. So what are you doing with this idea? Well, are you yourself then allowing yourself to recognize your own healing potentials? Is that what you want to do with this?

**Questioner:** I am exploring to be more of myself.

**Bashar:** In which means how do you want to express that? What excites you the most in terms of an application of what you are exploring? Is it to be a healer in a particular modality? Is it to express it in some other way? What excites you the most?

**Questioner:** The healing is definitely a place that touches me deeply.

**Bashar:** All right. So you are saying that you want to express yourself as a healer. Is that what you are saying? That's what I'm doing. In what modality then do you do this? Right now it's in energetic massage through hands-on.

**Questioner:** So working with the etheric. I'm interested in those that are working with us though on interested in what way? To understand I don't know just to understand them better.

**Bashar:** I think then why not go talk to individuals who are working with this and find out what they know? Well, you have many mentors on your planet. All of you. Why not find someone who is already doing what it is you say excites you the most? And as you say in your language, go hang out with them. Let them rub off on you.

**Questioner:** Well, I'm doing that.

**Bashar:** Well, then what else do you need to do? I wonder what is your uncertainty? Yes, you do. I don't know how to exactly put it into words what it is. What do you think you need to know? What do you think you need to learn? And even if you don't have a mental cognition of that specifically, do you not feel or know that you can learn it by exposure or through your own imagination? Yes. Well, then what do you need to know from me that you don't already know? I think instinctively exploring it with you sometimes gives me insight.

**Bashar:** Oh, well, by all means, explore it. I mean, I've been utilizing your tools. Yes. The tools from the workshops have been very, very powerful. Well, don't forget that you can invent your own tools, you know. Yeah, I do that, too. All right, then. What else do you need to know? Are you forgetting to laugh? Probably. Well, then there's one suggestion I can give you. Laugh more often.

**Questioner:** All right. Okay. I have a question about my own physical. I've been through menopause and I'm still having hot flashes. I find them uncomfortable.

**Bashar:** All right. Well, then find a way to use the energy. Remember, it is really the same thing on the other side as the kinds of things you experienced when you went through puberty. You understand? Many people on your planet go through puberty and in that sense figure out ways to harness and utilize the energy to some degree. But rarely do you find individuals saying, "Oh, we've got a way to stop that." No. In that sense, to some degree, it is a natural thing. But that doesn't mean you have to necessarily be uncomfortable with it. There are things that you can do to balance your body and balance your form to allow yourself to transform the energy in positive ways and flow it through yourself and channel it and use it creatively and so you can transform it in that sense. Like an irritant something like the yes. But in that it doesn't have to be necessarily experienced as an irritant once you understand how to use it as a seed. So yes, be your own pearl. Be your own oyster. All right. Does that help you? Yes.

---

### Number Nine

**Bashar:** You and the mail number two. Good day.

**Questioner:** Good day. This is my first time here with you.

**Bashar:** So, it is our first time communicating with you as well. Thank you.

**Questioner:** My question or statement or you catch on quick. Thank you. I would like to know what you would have to give me in the way of guidance with regard to my own becoming of my own understanding of who I am and my own pearl as you have said today.

**Bashar:** Well, you've already heard us talk about the idea of following your excitement. Does that seem absurdly simplistic to you?

**Questioner:** Not at all.

**Bashar:** Well, then why isn't it sufficient? My question is who has been coming to me over my lifetime, particularly in the last three months.

**Bashar:** In what way do you experience this coming? Through meditation an individual directly in front of me and do you get an appearance or a perception of an appearance? A perception of an appearance that can be described as a Christ individual. All right. And can you give me some type of information as to what it is that I am going through at this point now that I have come to understand my own power?

**Bashar:** Are you sure that you have come to understand your own power? That's the question I'm asking. All right. Then I give it to you this way. In that you are co-creating a reflection of what we call the world spirit, the collective consciousness, what you have called the Christ consciousness, the Buddha nature, the Krishna spirit, doesn't matter what name you use, it is the world spirit, collective consciousness, awareness of the total self. In that you are giving yourself that reflection as a guiding beacon to become more of yourself, all that you know you can be, then simply using it in that way for that purpose is really all you need to do. So if it gives you, shall we say, a certain feeling to perceive it, if it guides you by leaving you with a certain vibrational flavor that feels more like the way you want to be, then that's its purpose is to pull you into more of yourself, to let you know that you are exactly equally that thing too. That energy, that face, that perception, that being. Because all of you individually, not only collectively are the world spirit or the Christ consciousness or the Buddha nature, but individually you are also the Christ consciousness, the world spirit, the Buddha nature, the Krishna being whatever you wish to call it because each part is the whole expressing itself as a part and the awakening within you. What some of you have euphemistically, religiously called the second coming is the awakening of that recognition and awareness within each and every one of you and the then appropriate behavioral change that goes with it to be like unto what you perceive is guiding you.

**Questioner:** And what would be my relationship to all of this with my own desires to produce certain things at this time?

**Bashar:** Your relationship to it would simply be that as you do allow yourself to exhibit more and more and more of your true self, you will ultimately only choose to do those things that are representative of your true self. That is the things that excite you the most, that contain the most creativity, the most joy, and you will choose to do nothing else. Nothing, nothing, not one iota, nothing else. And that will make all the difference not only in your world, but in the world in terms of you functioning as a shining example and a reflection of how individuals can actually live in their truth moment to moment all the time.

**Questioner:** My last question would be, does that help you? Yes, it does. All right. My last question is, what is my relationship to the crystal skulls?

**Bashar:** One moment. You have some old relationships to them. Specifically also with regard to the idea of Lemurian and Atlantean incarnations, a great degree of familiarity with the idea of invoking their energy as a representation of collective consciousness and utilizing it in that way, which to some degree is why you're doing that in this life as well with the idea of evoking an image that represents collective consciousness. But back then in those rituals and those understandings, it was a good focusing point to give you an undifferentiated meditative field, a reflection of your own immortality and mortality in one image. The idea of spirit and body reflected in the skull, life and death in one symbolic image to put you squarely in the center, squarely in the balance point because you innately and intuitively do remember how to use that balance point to create your reality in a powerful way. That's what the imagery of the skull represents. And your relationship to it in the past as what you might call a priest or shaman or whatever euphemism you care to use in this lifetime. Does that make some sense to you?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** And is there some offshoot of this you wish to explore in more detail? Only if you can give me without asking another question. I would like to share my time with someone else. The idea simply is to know that it was created by many people which you were involved in several groups that created these things. You were involved. What it represents and it is easily able to in a sense remind you or trigger in you the ability to go into that zero point wherein you can access the information that you need to get done whatever it is you deem is reflective of your joy of your truth of your excitement of who you are. Am I on the right path to continue my journey with? Are you following your excitement as best you can at every given moment for the last 20 years? Then the answer is positive. Yes. Thank you. That's all it takes. You understand? That's really all it takes. When you ask yourself that question, am I on my path? All you have to do is say, am I being myself to the best of my ability, to the fullest I can be, most creatively, most lovingly, am I expressing my highest joy? If the answer is always yes, then the answer is yes to all of those like-minded questions. And that's all there is to it. Because the most exciting thing is the physical translation of your true natural centered vibration, the consciousness that you are. Make sense? Yes. Does that help? Yes. Anything else? I think so.

**Questioner:** And for the woman in the back, I've just come out of a relationship with my own father and I would hope to talk to her after this is all over.

**Bashar:** That is between you. Good day.


### Number Ten

**Questioner:** I wrote a story about a dragon in the closet. Yes. And it occurs to me that this is symbolic of my dealing with this energy, you know, in dribs and drabs with it. 

I've noticed something else. What did you notice? What I found that's really exciting to me, I used to be terrified, just bloody scared to death of looking up at the sky. I always wanted my back up against the wall when I looked up. And I noticed the other day when I was walking my dog very late at night, I liked looking up. And I wonder if this means I'm coming to terms with something. Well, I mean, I think that's what obviously it means that. And well, I like this feeling much better and I prefer to stay in the happy place.

**Bashar:** Then you go right ahead.

**Questioner:** I've been wanting to ask you to please give me insight. I have this sense that I am a hybrid.

**Bashar:** And you are all to some degree hybridized at this point in your evolution especially compared to the way humanity was hundreds of years ago.

**Questioner:** Well, what I want to talk about and ask you about is this question has been rolling around in my awareness and that is some of us seem to be really, really drawn to being here and just sucking up every minute of this exciting energy whereas other people in my experience when I talk about such things just don't seem turned on at all.

**Bashar:** This is simply in general different stages of realization of their connection to all things. Some individuals have a stronger anchor point to the idea of history of incarnations on earth. Some individuals do not. Some individuals are at a point in their awareness of being connected to all things where they are focusing on things off the earth rather than on. But all of this is generally somewhere along the path to the blending and integration of a balancing of this understanding of heaven and earth simultaneously. But you're all at different places, different rates.

**Questioner:** What I got is that it's like a garden and we're all flowers blooming at a different time perhaps. But nonetheless, we will bloom.

**Bashar:** But in a sense, you are all of one garden. Yes.

**Questioner:** I'm thinking of my daughter Laura who has always said she didn't want to have children. And who exhibits some of the symptoms of maybe having been visited. And I want to know if there activity has been going on in her experience, please.

**Bashar:** Yes, it has.

### Grays

**Questioner:** Hi Bashar. Good day. I guess first thing is the interaction that occurred with the Gray on Saturday night. When I was experiencing that and when I listened to it later, I found two things came up. One was that on the one hand I felt comforted in a way by the way the gray was because of the intellect and at the same time it brought back a memory of being in Bise and experiencing like being in a Japanese prison camp.

**Bashar:** Oh, I like that. And the heat and I had I don't know. I just wonder. Yes. And so, and just this is not necessarily something for confusion. Obviously, they radiate the idea of a spectrum within their own bandwidth. The idea of the intellectuality, the idea of what many of you perceive to be, shall we say, entrapment, internment, cold aspects and attitudes, imprisonment within the self, within yourselves. Many different things, even within what might be a narrow bandwidth, may still have a great degree of diversity within it. And you will perceive many of those different levels from time to time depending on where you're at.

**Questioner:** And so like as Elizabeth and I have been talking and I realized that she feels more fear and I feel like either I've used my screen memories so well that I just don't realize how frightened I am or that it hurt or something. Is this still covered up for me?

**Bashar:** Some of it is but not necessarily as much as you might think. So we are not going to go into great detail about this at this time.

**Questioner:** And the other thing that came up this week was triggered about school and that such a strong energy for me both the teacher and the student aspects of it. Is that an archetypal energy?

**Bashar:** Of course it is an archetype but it is also memory of very specific incidents and experiences throughout your life and in other levels of reality as well.

**Questioner:** Because that's what I was getting not only this lifetime but future lifetimes and also in what you call astral and etheric realms and other dimensional realms in which there is instruction like unto the idea you would call school.

**Bashar:** Orientation. I just love that so much. Oh, all right then it will continue for you. And I went to find that book, The Secret School, and I couldn't find it. I mean, it just kept not being there like it wasn't time for me to read it or something.

**Bashar:** Where are you looking? At the bookstore. And which bookstore would that be? Crown books. Then perhaps you should choose another. I won't give up my search. Don't worry. But the other thing that happened was when I saw the chiropractor today and he cleared something about school. Nice. A negative experience. And then based on what you had said, I mentioned that I felt like maybe aromatherapy would be useful. All right. If you feel so, follow your instinct. Which I did. And then he tested it and it came up yes. And the two that came up were purification and awakening.

**Bashar:** Did they have question marks on the end of them? I have no idea why I'm even presenting it as a question. Thank you.

**Questioner:** And lastly, the dream experience I had today, is that just me?

**Bashar:** Just you. I assume you don't mean that in a diminishing way. No, but in that sense it is mostly you. You are obviously to some degree also participating or co-articipating with some level of the energy of others in that they are willing to give of their energy for you to mold it into whatever you need to have a reflection of. In that sense, you are mostly the sculptor here, but they are willing to some degree to provide you with some of the clay. You get the analogy. So, there is some participation, but it is on that level mostly the idea of an unconscious participation on the level of the archetypal presence that they and everyone in your society is willing to allow others to draw from to mold into things and shapes whatever they need to see reflected for themselves. Does that make sense? I get this sense of it and I feel that.

**Questioner:** And lastly, when I was falling asleep the other night, I saw I was in the in-between state and I saw Is that another question? Oh, I was in the in-between state. You see, this is analogous in your terms on your planet to being in Arizona and going I'm in Arizona. A sense of hesitancy. But I just wondered about what I saw was a triangular shaped spaceship that went across the sky and it had lights on it.

**Bashar:** Yes, some of them do. Yes, I've heard. So, again following that other spaceship dream experience. Any comments about that? What do I need to say? Well, you allowed yourself to extend your senses in that in between moment into other dimensions where such things are perceivable as they come and go. What could be more natural? Well, it was triangular, which kind of was triangular. So, are you asking me if it was mine? Okay. Is that what you are asking me? Why didn't you just ask? I'm shy. About what? I just am. You just are. No one just is anything except themselves. I'm getting very hot right now. Good. You want me to put on more heat? I don't know. Do you want to? It was mine. Thank you. Just passing through and you perceived. But understand that it wasn't as if it was literally physically in your proximity. You extended yourself into the dimensional realm in which I was translating myself and my craft. Oh, it was really pretty. I think so. And the craft says, "Thank you." For remember that they are self-aware. 


### Number Twelve

**Questioner:** I had a trip to Southern Baja California with some whales and some calves and some dolphins. it also included a night on a sand dune in alignment with Sirius and a couple circles on sand that included being enveloped in a fog, literally a fog, of a very soft fog and with a coyote that came to visit and it was very magical and very wonderful. 

I'm sure more will be coming up all the time about it. But with these waves of Sirius energy that are that we're creating and that are coming, I wondered if there's any more information, say from our dolphin friends or from our whale friends that you might be able to share with us at this time.

**Bashar:** The month of March will bring an upsurge in communication from dolphin and Sirius consciousness. Be ready for it. Be aware of participate. One moment. Especially in the local you find yourself in now. Do you understand this? Yes. Especially there. Then test the waters in your month of March. See what surfaces.

**Questioner:** Thank you. When I walk in Redondo just about every morning, dolphin friends do come. Yes. And in also as was mentioned Manhattan. Manhattan Beach off the coast here in Malibu. There are a few pods. I'm sure we'll all be putting our feet in the water. Either literally or metaphorically.

**Bashar:** Yes. But there will be an upsurge in your month of March regarding this kind of communication ability and incidents involving Sirius consciousness and participation. You will understand when the time comes. You will know it when you see it. You will know it when you be it. Do you understand? Yes. Thank you.

---

## Closing Meditation

**Bashar:** Not at this timing. For at this timing, we find that it is time to turn a key and unlock a lock. Click tick tock. Allow yourself to be aware now of comfort in your body. And allow bit by bit, piece by piece, time and space to dissolve into timelessness and spacelessness. Space and time, time and space, one and the same and nothing but an echo in the void, in the empty fullness of all that is.

Breathe. Breathe. Breathe. In and out. In and out. All about. Be yourself. Be the one. Be the many. Be your unique diverse individuality. Cherish and treasure that which you are. You are of the earth. You are of the star.

Dive deep, deep, deep into the heart of your being, into your soul, into your liquid, warm pool of consciousness and awareness, into the infinity that you are. And at the center of that infinity of timeless, spaceless, endlessness is the single luminosity, the spark, the fire, the flame of your existence.

The sister vibration, the primal fundamental subatomic single entity that is all things everywhere and everywhere, but mostly here and now. This is the only place and this is the only time. Here and now is all there is.

You are one and you are one. You are one and you are one. And how beautiful in your language that the same word can mean the singular and the many. You are one and you are one. You are one and you are one. Be one with your oneness. One within the one. Just be. The unconditional love of the infinite permeates every single cell and fiber.


