---
heading: Part 1
title: "Mirror of the Mind"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1997-03-16
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 135
tags: ['']
---




## ITEM ONE: VOTING ON DISCLOSURE

Let us begin this transmission by covering briefly three ideas.

1. Do you desire that more information in your society concerning what you call UFOs, extraterrestrials, and so forth that is known by factions within your government be revealed?

Do you desire information regarding what has now recently been discovered as the predicted underground chambers under the sinks near the pyramid in your Egypt area that this be opened and that the contents be disclosed? How do you vote?

Do you desire that the phenomenology on your planet that many of you are familiar with referred to as crop circles be in your estimation diligently and seriously and scientifically investigated? How do you vote?

Do you desire that your educational systems within your own nation around your planet be imaginatively altered to encompass the idea of creativity, excitement? How do you vote?

Do you desire your environment to be kept in healthy state clean that there be less destruction a reduction of destruction of your ecological systems on your planet by various means. Show of voices.

Obviously, there are many other things of that nature that you would most likely vote I on. So, show of voices.

How many of you have written loving letters to your government suggesting that they can release this information now? All right.

How many of you have written letters to what you would call your Egyptian officials requesting that they do allow the information in the contents of the chambers to be released for now? You believe it is timely. Show of voices.

How many of you have written to your scientific community lovingly urging them to take the crop circle phenomenology seriously and to conduct a scientific investigation that is unbiased?

How many of you have allowed yourself to communicate to individuals in your educational system suggesting creative ways that individuals may be taught the things that they need to be taught? Show of voices.

How many of you have allowed yourself to communicate and take active part in the idea of the balancing of your environment and ecological systems? Show of voices.

All right. In general, you can certainly see that the first volley of eyes was grander. The second volley needs to equal it. If anything in that sense is going to be done, we simply make a point and rest our case in item number one. You draw your own conclusions here.

---

## ITEM TWO: ON LOSS AND GRIEVING

2. Many times we have and many other different kinds of beings have discussed concepts on your planet that you refer to as loss. Whether through the idea of death of a loved one or the breakup of a relationship or even sometimes the literal physical losing so to speak or misplacing of an object that may seem dear to you.

And we recognize that in many of the conversations that you have bringing these subjects up, not only on our part, but on the part of many of what you would call spiritual beings who then communicate about these concepts, who share their perspective about such things.

Many times we know that individuals on your planet will deem that our perspective may seem to be somewhat detached, sometimes even labeled as cold, uncompassionate in that we do not seem in a sense to support the idea of your grieving, of your sorrow, your sadness. Do not seem to sympathize with you in that way.

We remind you, you may have whatever feeling you wish and whatever feelings you choose to have, we will not invalidate them nor take them away from you. They are what you believe you need to have. And they are in no way, shape or form, in any way, shape, or form are they to be considered less than any other way that you could respond.

Nevertheless, we understand that there are from our own experience other ways to respond to these ideas and not see them so much as loss. The idea is not that there is a lack of compassion in these dialogues. The idea is not that we are attempting to hurry you up through your own grieving process.

The idea, however, is that you do come many times with these questions and we can only respond to you in the way that is indicative of our level of experience at this time in our evolution in our society.

The idea from our perspective perhaps to help illuminate how we see these things would be like unto someone coming and saying, "I have lost this object. I have misplaced it. I do not know where it is." and us knowing and leading them to how they can find that object.

We use that analogy to describe all concepts of what you call loss. Be it the idea of the breakup of a relationship or the idea of the death of a loved one because nothing is to us ever lost and always can be utilized in a sense can be contacted in a positive and constructive way.

Even though you may not be interacting with the individual physiologically anymore in death in the breakup of a relationship. Nevertheless, the idea is still analogous to asking where have I placed this object and being given information as to where it is.

The idea being that if you have changed a relationship, still there is information that can allow you to find what you need in that relationship and even at the idea of the death of an individual to understand that you can still communicate with that individual and that there is no loss.

So in the same light that you would not really feel a great sorrow at the misplacement of an object knowing that there is some way to know where it may be. In the same way, in changing relationships and in physical death, there is still some way to know how to relate to that incident, how to interact with that idea, with those people, with those consciousnesses, with those energies that can still be utilized in a positive and constructive way in your reality.

And so having that perspective may allow you the opportunity to not necessarily feel such great degrees of sadness as you have in the past. Knowing that it is simply a matter of being told where to look instead of thinking that it is impossible to make any kind of connection or relationship to these ideas ever again.

So we simply remind you that that is our perspective and in no way, shape or form at any time is this ever meant to come across to you as not validating your feelings or in no way, shape or form on the part of any entity who discusses it from this perspective. In no way is this meant as discompassionate reaction to you.

We understand that it is in your estimation difficult for you. We understand the idea that you call your sense of loss and your grieving. Nevertheless, we always will reinforce your ability to use even this when you decide to in a positive and constructive way or to see it in such a light. Your timing is up to you on this and we support you in whatever you choose to do.

---

## ITEM THREE: CONVERSATIONS WITH GOD

Item number three, we have in what you call your recent past discussed with many of you the idea of the particular piece of literature that exists now in your society that is labeled conversations with God.

We have even though this is rare that we do so suggested that this is a very viable source, very good challenging source for you to understand all that you need to understand about being who you are.

And we heartily suggest that if you have not allowed yourself to do so, that you take advantage of the existence of this piece of literature in your society now because it really does contain everything you need to know about being who you are.

And in that sense, it is though again rarely do we say this 100% viable as a tool for you. It is in that sense very well and very clearly presented.

And the second part of this idea is now available to you. What you call book two. Therefore, you may continue your dialogue, your conversation with whatever it is you deem God to be by accessing book two if you wish of this piece of literature which is now available in your society.



## UNDER THE SPHINX

**Participant:** I was wondering uh would you be willing to talk about what's underneath the Sphinx and what's been found so far?

**Bashar:** Again, the idea is that the chambers that were on the part of many people predicted to be there have not been opened. So in that sense nothing has been found except the existence of the chambers themselves by what you would call sonic reading. 

Thus you will find when you create among yourselves the appropriate timing to enter these chambers under the Sphinx. It will contain information. To sum it up, a kind of hall of records that will leave absolutely no uncertainty about the idea of what you would call past histories, the ancientness of your civilization, interactions with other levels of consciousness.

There will be artifacts, symbols, signs, information that can easily be deciphered by those who understand that will relate in a sense to your origins on Earth, to the idea of a multitude of civilizations that have existed thereupon, to the idea of your birthright as beings of consciousness, and many principles of the fundamental ideas of the formation of your reality in the creation of life.

In that sense, it will be a verification of many of the things that you now desire to believe about reality and it will change many aspects of what you call history, sociology, religion, anthropology and so forth.

It is likely though again we cannot say with absolute certainty because this is your call because it is your planet. It is likely that these chambers will be opened before your year of 2001. But that depends upon all of you. 

**Participant:** Would you say that these chambers contain the foremost library of knowledge about history of Earth on the planet?

**Bashar:** There are others, but yes, in a sense it does.

**Participant:** And uh didn't Edgar Casey speak about this these gems?

**Bashar:** Yes, this is the reference among others that we were talking about when we said predicted.

**Participant:** I see. I I'm not certain, but I thought he predicted they'd be open by 1998. Perhaps I'm wrong.

**Bashar:** Yes, this is highly likely. But we give simply the absolute window of no later than 2001 because there are many things still in fluctuation. There is a high degree of probability that it may be by your 1998 or sometime in your 1998. But at the absolute latest, no matter what transpires, it seems that the momentum of your collective consciousness will not allow it to take any longer than 2001 at the outside. You follow?

**Participant:** Yes, I do. And what is it that we can do in this group to uh expedite that opening?

**Bashar:** You can coordinate and communicate with the officials in that area, lovingly urging them to allow investigation to continue instead of impeding such investigation.

**Participant:** Um I was also thinking perhaps we could go there in our astro bodies.

**Bashar:** You can, but remember that you are also physiological beings and what you take action in the physical world will make the greatest difference. Even though of course in your astral state you can set up things and make arrangements for things to go smoothly but without the followup without the follow through physiologically it may not amount to much.

**Participant:** I see. And uh can you tell us about uh how old these chambers are when they were created?

**Bashar:** Again approximately the idea of what you would call 10,500 BC. So in that sense 12,500 of your years ago approximately.

**Participant:** Okay. Was that uh near the time of the fall of Atlantis?

**Bashar:** Yes. And there shortly in a sense before and shortly thereafter. It bracketed the actual fall and the final fall.

**Participant:** Did the peoples of Atlantis bring forth a lot of this knowledge?

**Bashar:** Yes. Be safeguarded there.

**Participant:** Yes. And uh is this knowledge scientific as well as historical?

**Bashar:** Yes. So there would be technology to be rediscovered.


## No Mind

**Bashar:** I live in an apartment building with thin walls.

**Bashar:** And there's a couple who lives below me with a 2 and a half year-old.

**Participant:** Yes. And every morning at between 6:30 or 8 in the morning, this child starts running and jumping and screaming and acting like a 2 and a half year-old.

**Bashar:** Yes.

the parents um don't want to discipline the child and uh he wakes me up constantly.

**Participant:** Have you communicated this to them?

**Bashar:** Yes, I have constantly.

**Participant:** And and their reaction um before this was happening, they used to call me up at 12 or so in the evening if I was playing my TV too loud.

**Bashar:** Yes. 

And I immediately lowered my TV and changed my viewing habits so that I viewed TV, if I was to watch it at all, earlier in the evening so it wouldn't disturb them. They never said anything.

**Bashar:** Um then how do you know they know?

Because they haven't complained. So that was the only way that we communicated was that they I see.

**Participant:** So um meanwhile I've been so angry about the fact that their child keeps me up in the morning and I've asked them to control the child and they don't that the last uh last week I started to play my TV again loud.

**Bashar:** So you are having a nice little war.

**Participant:** Exactly. And I feel bad about this. It's not getting either any of us anywhere and it's creating a lot of animosity and anger between us.

**Bashar:** That is because you are creating animosity and anger within yourselves.

**Participant:** I don't know how to deal with it anymore. I've asked the manager of the building is a friend of mine and she said that she would try to intercede but she doesn't feel it will be very positive.

**Bashar:** Is it time for you to move?

**Participant:** I would love to move but I do not have the money to do that. I'm listening to tapes trying to create abundance. putting out as much energy in every living moment that I can to create abundance.

**Bashar:** Except where your apartment is concerned.

**Participant:** Well, I'm putting out my excitement. I'm waiting for the abundance to come forth.

**Bashar:** You're waiting for the abundance instead of simply being abundant.

I'm acknowledging the abundance I get.  I'm visualizing it 

<!-- **Bashar:** regard because my apartment I appreciate my apartment and which is one of the reasons I'm let me rephrase regarding where you would prefer to be are you acknowledging and expressing your abundance regarding where you would prefer to be? -->

**Participant:** but what are you doing about it?

**Bashar:** well at this point there's not much I can do other than visualize it and work towards getting abundance so I can find such a move to such a place.

**Bashar:** So you are putting the brakes on your imagination. You are limiting your imagination for how you think the idea of a preferred living space could manifest. 

**Participant:** I'm opening up myself to whatever might come my way.

**Bashar:** No, you're not.

**Participant:** But there don't seem to be opportunities.

**Bashar:** No, you're not. If there don't seem to be opportunities, you are not opening up. **Otherwise, you would see opportunities**. 

So, no, you're not. Your assumptions are creating what you are capable of seeing and not seeing.

You are not exercising or stretching your imagination anywhere near to the degree you could be with regard to your living space of preference. 

You are restricting yourself with many definitions, straight jacketing yourself with many definitions about what is possible and what is not and what you have to do and what you can't do and so on and so forth.

This is what you're doing. This is what you're choosing to do. 

This is how you're choosing to behave. And so this is the kind of reality that you're getting. A seeming inability to see opportunities to be in a living space of your preference.

You need to stretch your imagination way beyond way beyond what you're doing. You need to lose your mind.

You may be driving yourself insane so that you can get out of your way and truly be in the moment. You need to lose your mind. In this instance, it isn't serving you. You think too much.

you need to get out of your way. Get your mind out of your way. 

Stop thinking your way through this. Stop logicing your way through this and let go. Let your reality happen. Let it unfold. Let it show you what can occur.

But you are going no no no block A block B block C everyone knows block A block B block C must come in this order or nothing can happen. But if there are only very few opportunities that are connected to ABC, then you will never see the opportunities that may be connected to BCA, BAC, CBA, CAB and so forth.

You are being too rigid with yourself here. Way too rigid, way too structured, way too straight jacketed by your belief systems and your definitions. You must let go of your fear, transform it, and leap into the unknown. Leap.

Is this not one of the greater challenges you have had lately?

**Participant:** Definitely.

**Bashar:** Then you must take the leap. 

If you really want to see a difference, you've got to take the step and you've got to know that you will land. You may not know where it is you're going to land, but you have to know you will land in some place that will be where you need to be.

But if you insist on knowing exactly what every step is going to be like every step of the way, then you will take a long time because you will take the time and use the time and create the time to define all the steps you are insisting on knowing before you'll be willing to take one. That's what you're doing in a nutshell. 

**Bashar:** Well, you have to take the leap. You have to stretch your imagination if you want this to change in the way you say you prefer. You have to allow yourself to let go of this concept that things have to happen in a certain way and stop connecting these things together. I don't have this so I can't do that. I'm not seeing an opportunity so I can't take any action. Make your opportunity. Take an action even if it makes no sense.

We understand that there are many areas in your life now that you are following your joy on. But you need to allow that to leak into other areas of your life that you are not letting it leak into because in some way, shape or form, you have created a definition about certain things that somehow makes it impossible to believe that you can handle those everyday reality things in the same way that you handle your biggest dreams of joy.

But you have to make them all one thing if you want to see them all work coherently.

**Bashar:** So the idea of your living space of preference, you need to allow yourself to open up and start being a little bit less logical about this, a little bit more crazy about this, a little bit more spontaneous and nonsensical about what it is you are urged to do, where it is you are urged to go. That may then contain the spontaneous and synchronistic revelation that you've always been capable of attracting a more preferred living space without necessarily needing to do it ABC.

Are you getting any of this?

**Participant:** I am. I'm I'm just going to I guess keep putting it out there as much as I can.

**Bashar:** Keep putting it out there. What does that mean?

**Participant:** visualizing it, looking for other opportunities that may come my way that I hadn't thought of before.

**Bashar:** All right, but the idea again is that you are still being a little too structured about loosen up. Loosen up. Do something crazy, unexpected, spontaneous, not so regimented, not so ritualized. Do you understand?

**Participant:** Mhm.

**Bashar:** Use your imagination and act on it. Okay. Feel right now. Feel the experience of a preferred living situation. Can you feel it?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** You don't have to define it in any other way right now. You follow me?

**Participant:** Mhm.

**Bashar:** Just feel what it would feel like. Feel what it does feel like to be in what you would call the preferred living situation. You feel it?

**Participant:** Mhm.

**Bashar:** Does the feeling make you want to do any particular thing even if it seems nonsensical? Does it make you want to behave any way that is different than the way you are behaving or have been behaving?

**Participant:** More relaxed for one thing.

**Bashar:** All right, then relax. Take it to the nth degree as you say. If being in that sense, if being in that vibration translates for now, the first thing that it translates to is a sense of be more relaxed. Then take that as far as you can. Play with it. Be silly about it. Do you understand?

**Participant:** Mhm.

**Bashar:** Get a hammock. Flake out. Do you understand?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Pretend you're in the tropics. Be relaxed. Be relaxed in all the ways that to you ideally represent being in a relaxed place. Being in a relaxed way. Play with it. You're not taking it far enough. You're being too rigid about the idea of your visualization and acting out. Being too logical about it.

**Participant:** Oh, all right. I'll be relaxed. Well, nothing happened. I relaxed and nothing happened.

**Bashar:** No, you didn't relax. Relax. You understand?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Relax. Relax. So relaxed you don't care what noises you make or who knows it. That's relaxed. You understand?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** So take that to heart and you'll get the point. You'll get the picture and also you will really experience what it means to be who you are.



## QUESTION 3: SUBLIMINAL MESSAGES

**Participant:** I read on the internet um you know I'm still listening to those subliminal tapes and I read on the internet that somebody said that they had watched a Mercedes commercial and that um there was a glitch in the on the television and the something like three frames were frozen and they were they were able to hear a subliminal message that said something to the effect of you'll get sex.

And I'm wondering how much subliminal messages are permeating our television and other media, mass media.

**Bashar:** What you would call about 20 of your years ago, there used to be quite a bit. It is not so prevalent now, though some still does exist now and then. Individuals will make an attempt to do this now and then, thinking that they have discovered something new.

But the idea really is really not more than about 5% to 7% at this time and maybe in most cases not even that much. However, it does still happen from time to time.

**Participant:** Is it effective?

**Bashar:** Sometimes it will depend.

**Participant:** Okay. So then I guess by my do well I'm I'm believing that by my doing it every night and listening to music that or sound effects that have subliminal messages that I'm using it in a positive way for myself.



