---
heading: Part 1
title: "Bashar and Torah: Arrival of Hale Bopp Comet"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1997-03-16
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 135
tags: ['']
---




**[Torah]:**  Happy St. Patrick's Day to you all. My goodness. Yes, the wearing of the green. How delightful. Uh, well, well, the channel's had a little bit of a chuckle that it might be an Irish comet. So, who knows? Anyway, greetings to you all. A pleasure and certainly an honor we must say at this time as we greet you, because we have noticed, in case you have not, that this particular audience is a most esteemed audience. Very much an audience filled with individuals who are in your own ways map makers, makers of the new millennium. And here you are tonight gathered together for some reason that is pushed by you from your own unconscious mind, pushing you to gather here together, looking to your right and to your left to see that there are others like you that are here. Other teachers, other healers, other facilitators, and certainly also other students. Students of life, students of the divine, students of many things, all very esteemed, focused, and in your own ways committed. And so it is truly an honor to sense you and the gathering that you all have put together here. 

We will open with a couple of very brief remarks about the comet and then allow certainly our most esteemed colleague Bashar to make his comments. In that regard, there is so much to say. So first we would like to say that yes, you here are in this most amazing timing of a comet arriving. Most amazing timing. It's here. It's here. Many of you have already seen it in all its beauty, in all its wonder, in all its majesty, and in all its mysticism. We are quite well aware that as an object of mysticism, this comet has already taken a lot of your projections. Imagination has been running rampant on what this comet has with it or in it or around it, etc., etc. Imagination has been very active. Lot of interesting projections going on already, and it's barely but hit the twilight sky. 

And so for now we put that aside to say that a comet is, historically speaking, many things, and certainly it has always been a marker. It has always been a marker of a certain time or a certain age, ushering things in, as you know. The historians truly so, and those people who have looked back on the comets of the past and have looked at those comets to see, well, what was going on then? And as you look back to see, well, what was going on then when this Hailbop [Hale-Bopp] comet was coming through. Many of you have already done enough research to realize it was a very interesting time. Things were just really getting rolling on your good old planet Earth 4,200 years ago. Stonehenge was having a little facelift. It was getting a little update, from what? Yes. And also the two most profoundly new agricultural cultures, the Sumerian and the Egyptian, were in full throttle and getting ready for a new throttle in that way. So it was a marker of a very important time the last time this comet was around. 

And so it is again as a marker. You look back upon it 4,200 years ago, or 1544, the last time such a bright comet came through. Not size, nothing, but brightness. This, they say, is brighter than any since 1544. Not necessarily bigger or closer, but brighter. We'll see how that goes. And so there have been those. And as it was a marker then, you have looked back to see what was it a marker of. What have various comets throughout your history been markers of? Where does this meaning come in? Where does the significance of these marks come in? 

And so it is that our opening messages to all of you: you, the teachers, the mapmakers, the healers, the curious students, those who are impassioned and emblazoned upon your metaphysical journey, who have gathered here tonight, you are indeed creating what significance this comet has. Oh, you've already been creating it. It started quite a while ago. It isn't going to be just tonight, but tonight you can also make a big difference in what this Hailbop will be a marker of in that way. When people look back 20 years from now to say, well, what did that Hailbop bring? You are among those who will be determining what they say. This places upon you an extraordinary freedom and an extraordinary delicious responsibility. It places upon you extraordinary power and creativity and imagination that you are definitely already using with this delicious Hailbop comet. Yes, it is a marker. Yes, it is a marker of many things, and indeed you are determining those things. 

### **Part 2: Bashar’s Message on the Comet as a Reflective Marker**

**[Bashar]:** To continue the idea that has already been approached by Torah, the idea to really understand and the idea to really underscore in your perception of these events as they unfold in your solar system is to, of course, once again remember, as has now been pointed out, that the concept of a marker is primarily as follows. 

For a long time, it has to some degree been intuitively understood, and to some degree mathematically understood, that certain events that you would call astronomical or planetary in nature would to some degree be coincidental, so to speak, or synchronous with the timing of certain changes going on in your world, both collectively and individually. But the idea, of course, that you call any kind of astrological presentment, we would like to remind you, of course, is not that the idea of the comet or the planets or the alignment of stars and such in any way, shape, or form actually rules you, or in a sense influences you, or in a sense pushes you into a particular change. But that this outer reality is but really a reflection of what is already going on within your collective consciousness, of the changes that are already coming to the forefront in your reality. 

Thus, as Torah has said, it functions not in that sense as an influencer, but as a reflector, as a marker to reflect back to you from the outer universal mirror the idea of what is going on already within you, what changes you have already decided to create within your collective and individualized consciousness. And thus, by seeing it reflected in the timing of certain synchronized events in your physical reality, you can then give yourself the reminder or the reflection of what it is you have already decided to make a change in. For many times, these changes, of course, take place within many of you unconsciously or subconsciously. And so you always have the outer physical universal mirror reality to reflect to you what is going on inside you, to allow you to bring it into conscious recognition so that you can then work with the changes and understand them consciously, physically, emotionally, mentally, intellectually, and so forth. 

These opportunities then are like, in a sense, a clockwork reflection to bring about the understanding that there is a timing at hand, a timing for a shift, a timing for a change. And of course, depending upon the archetypal symbology of whatever symbol happens to be involved, such as a star or a planet or a comet, then you can extract from the symbology and the meaning that you have put into these things. You can extract what it is that is being reflected to you that is now an opportunity for you to become conscious of. 

So please do remember that when you look to the idea of the timing, especially now, to such of what you would call an auspicious and obvious and evident comet, do understand that the first thing that this means is not that it's going to actually influence you, but that it is reflecting a great influence of change that you are now having within yourselves. And its obviousness is a reflection of the obviousness that is now possible to exist on your planet with regard to the kinds of changes you want to see. In other words, it is functioning now as a beacon, as a marker that no one can miss, to allow you to really let it finally be all right to let the changes you want to make be obvious on your planet, instead of keeping them suppressed and keeping them hidden and talking about them in dark secret places. Now they can come to light. For the light of the comet is the reflection of your opportunity to blaze brightly across your own sky, across your own reality, to announce the presence of who and what you know yourselves to be. And in all reality, allow yourselves, each and every one of you, to be your own comet and to announce your own orbit. And to allow yourself to be as brightly illuminated by your internal central light, the light of the infinite, as the comet allows itself to be by your central star. 

It reflects a wonder, a wonder that you are now experiencing with the discoveries in your reality of the physical, metaphysical, psychic, and well, subatomic sort. The wonder that you are feeling with your science and with your meta-science, metaphysics, if you will. It is reflecting so many of these wonderful aspects within you that are burgeoning at this time. For a moment, we go back to the time of 4,200 years ago where there was a burgeoning of centralized civilization where the agricultural communities were replacing the hunter-gatherer tribal nomadic lifestyle, where things were taking on a new organization of a very practical kind. And here once again, with the comet's return, comes a new also organizational time being reflected where the inner and the outer are now being seen as the mirrors that they are, where the reality of the external and the reality of the internal are being linked up in intellectual circles as well as meditative and metaphysical ones. And what a reflection that is. The wonder, the wonder of life's mysteries, life's mysticisms reflected, being organized now more than ever. And you are among those assisting in this organization, assisting in this reflection. And we encourage the wonder. We encourage you to drop your jaw when you see that comet. To let your voice ring forth with a big "Ooh, ah, wow, look at that." We encourage you to feel that, and we'll use the word *excitement*. We encourage you to use that energy of excitement when you see this marker reflecting your wonder. This marker reflecting this time of greater organizational potential for the inner and the outer, the "as above, so below" new way of living life.

As a marker, especially in your own intuition, the comet is the herald of change, the omen of change that is taking place within you. 

in looking at your history, you can allow yourself, if you have a broad view of this history, as far at least as you know it on your planet, to see when and where certain such markers may have also pointed out other great changes that have taken place.

We begin 6,000 years ago.

There was a great shift on your planet, of:
- an influx of incarnations
- the beginning of great polarity in different civilizations
- the beginnings of cycles of darkness and the light that you're only now just finishing up

**For in that time, two times ago, of the appearance of this comet, was the timing of the influx of the great Orion incarnations and the beginning of much dichotomy and polarization on your planet.** 

Then going back one more time before that, you will find that that was also a great comet that heralded the idea of the destruction of Atlantis at that time. 

This comet carries with it a great degree of vibrational auspiciousness for the whole concept of great changes that have to do with integrating the darkness and the light, the negative and positive polarities, the male and female energies. 

All things that have to do now with integration and blending are contained and reflected in the vibration of this archetypal symbol of this particular comet that you have named in your present language as Hailbop, but which in your past has had many different names depending upon the age of its appearance and the omens that the individuals at that time assumed that it represented. 

You can also use that information to gain insight in the present time for where you can go beyond this point.

For this is truly, as far as cyclic things go, the end of one cycle, a great cycle of times. And it is of course no accident that this comet appears once again near the end of this cycle to usher in the idea of your new integrated fourth density selves, to pull all the fragments together into one harmonious whole. 

And to, shall we say, begin a new orbit, a new cycle of yourselves that will propel you into a new universal understanding of how you can truly begin to become part of the overall society that permeates universal reality.

There are stories that many ascribe to in this time being called the New Age. And there are certain New Age fringe groups who are ascribing to certain theories that there will come a time that lifted off of the Earth will be, oh, a whole lot of people. Some people think, well, all the good ones are going to leave. Some people think, well, all the bad ones are going to leave and we'll get, and it'll be heaven on earth. So, there are as many theories as there are people in this room. Yes. But we would say that there is a certain historical projection that the ancients put on comets, that it took spirits away. Yet there are other indigenous peoples who said, "No, no, it's bringing the old ones back to give us their wisdom." Yes, we said earlier, it'll take all your projections. The comet will. And so as there are certain groups that ascribe to a grand ascension process that they take quite literally to mean the bodies of the people as well as the souls, we would say that they may very much enjoy the marker of the comet and have a real good time with their doom and gloom, or with their "better than," because maybe they think they would be one of the real good ones to be taken away with it. You see. 

So we would say that along the same lines of what Bashar has been saying, we would say there is a greater truth than that than what those ancients have said. That it is a bringer, that it is the ascended ones leaving... that along the lines, has said it is rather showing an integration. Yes, there will be things that will be leaving, and yes, there will be things that will be coming. Concepts, beliefs, thoughts, feelings, and an integration, a greater harmonization. We would suggest, however, this comet is not going to take a whole lot of souls and bodies with it. 

Also, as has been pointed out by many individuals, and of course meaning no offense to your species, but we have recognized that there is a propensity toward the fear and negative side in the idea of certain pronouncements that have been made about the cometary presence in your solar system. The idea first and foremost that we would like to stress very highly is that, as your own telescopic photographs will now reveal, there is no other object in association with the comet but the comet. It is the only thing physically present in its sphere of influence. It is not bringing the idea of death and destruction nor pestilence upon anything. Certainly, yes, you do recognize that your planet, by your own hand, certainly does have its degree and its share of the idea of negative manifestations, so to speak, and dire consequences and pestilences and all sorts of manner of famines and diseases and so forth, and perhaps even some of the ideas of geological shifting here and there. Though, as has already been pointed out from time to time, both by myself and Torah, many of the early predictions have themselves now become obsolete because of changes you have made within your collective consciousness. And we would strongly urge that you continue in that direction with regard to the idea of any pronouncement made with regard to and with respect to this particular cometary body. 

The idea to understand again is that it is functioning symbolically and archetypally as a large reflecting mirror. So that anyone who in a sense beholds it will really behold a reflection of the strongest vibration they have within themselves. And so that will be the future they see. That will be what they will assume the comet represents. But if you change your frequency and look again, you will find that it will reflect very faithfully back to the one looking exactly all the changes that at that point may have come about in their own energy frequency. So please understand, the only physical object in that sense in your dimension that is entering your solar system at this time is the cometary body. There is nothing in that sense coming out of it as an artificial object. There is no artificial object associated with it that is in your third density reality. 

The idea, however, is that there is a massive amount of higher dimensional truths and realities associated with this object because it is the archetypal reflection of so many of the hopes and dreams and desires and projections of your collective consciousness. And as such, what you are seeing, if and when individuals see things there, are the direct reflections of what each and every one of you, both individually and all of you together collectively, assume to be the most likely and possible future you can imagine for yourselves.

On the political front, we would say that often in the past comets have been associated with the death of major world leaders or tribal leaders, as the case might be. Comets, different comets, not just this one. There are certain significances that people have found historically. We would suggest that there is always a death of a major leader going on. Right? If you really want to find one, you can. There is. Having said that, we would point to 20 years from now when people look back to think, well, what about that theory of the major leader who is dying around this comet time? I mean, what would that be again, 20 years from now looking back to Hailbop? They would say, what? Ding-dong leader of more millions of people per country than any other. What significance might they see to that? It's all unfolding, isn't it? You're beginning to see it. There is a major significance of integrational nature occurring as the turnover of Hong Kong is passed to the Chinese with a new leader. There are economic ramifications to these events that are beyond your wildest imaginations. So start imagining. Start creating it. How do you want it to be? Start creating it. A massive integrational movement of an economic. And of course, economic involves a lot of other things. It doesn't just mean the green stuff. It involves just about everything on your planet. Who gets the jobs, right? Who has security? Where are the wars or non-wars? It is a very, very important principle. The market that would be the Chinese people, rather awesome if you put your imagination to it. What integration will people see 20 years hence when they look back upon this comet time? As certainly there was, yes, as always, the death of a world leader, but as we say, there is always one going on anyway. However, this one is particularly significant, and the significance isn't written in stone yet. It is being created. 

And as you, the visionaries, you the dreamers, you the map makers, you the ones who use your imagination, are starting to use your skills of consciousness in your own personal lives, the comet is also reflecting back to you the possibility of stretching how you use your consciousness skills. It is reflecting to you there are global changes unfolding now, and imagination is needed to continue this unfoldment with efficiency, with clarity, with peace, with harmony, and we would say, with magic.


## Commitment

Now, Torah and I have been talking about the comet, and we have been talking about consciousness, and we have been talking about change, and now I'm going to have to apologize because it's time for another C-word. 

I'm going to have to say the fearful big C-word: *Commitment*. For you see, above and beyond many things, the whole idea of this timing of the comet and its relevance to consciousness and change has to do with commitment. Commitment to yourselves to be yourselves. This is what, in a sense, if anything, the symbol of the comet calls you to: commitment to be who and what you are. This is what we meant by shining brightly. And without this timing of commitment, without taking that step, you will not necessarily be capable of aligning with the symbolic reflection in its most fluid and flowing and constructive form. So while I know that many of you upon hearing the C-word quake in your boots, allow yourself please to understand that when you really understand the concept of commitment, you will embrace it and rejoice at the freedom that it provides. Because commitment in being yourself is what will allow you finally to know that you fit. You belong. You have your own synchronistic timing, as the comet reflects to you. You, in your own orbit, are your own source of omens, your own source of meanings. And you have the opportunity, as Torah has outlined, to begin now to create more consciously whatever kinds of meanings and reflections you want to put into these ideas, these presentments, these symbols and archetypal reflections, as you have created this timing. That is not an accident, not a coincidence in the accidental sense. 

Commitment is the key. As you take a lesson from the idea of the commitment that these planetary bodies have, as the comet plunges toward the sun, also the commitment of plunging toward your own inner light and letting it blaze. That leap of faith, that diving off the precipice, that falling toward the sun idea. Do not be afraid. Your inner light, though bright beyond belief, will not burn you, will not char you. You will pass through this idea of fire, but will come out the other side, reborn, renewed, and capable of more clarity, which is another C-word that is much in need in your communications with yourself. So it would seem that the theme is balance, and music, and harmony is what all of this represents.

We are going to move for just a moment to a D-word. There are some words that are D-words that are often causing you to quake in your boots. Bashar has said the C-words cause you as well. One is *Discipline*. Oh. Oh no. Discipline. Commitment is freedom, as Bashar has said. Well then, what is discipline? We would like to offer an alternative definition. There's a definition of discipline. An alternative. As you fly toward your sun, your bright light within you, discipline can be seen as discipling your self-love. Discipling your excitement, discipling your fire within. 

Just a little trip to the D-word. Shall we continue down the alphabet? Once you make the commitment to yourself to be yourself, and once you understand that you are your own disciple in this and allow the natural proclivities to come out in you, then of course, E: *Excitement* will follow. 

The idea now, more specifically, skipping over a few of your letters, will be to go straight to I for *Inspiration*. For the idea again symbolized by the flaring and the outgassing and the brilliance that you come to know the comet to be. How you identify the comet by the concept that it gives off all of this gaseous material that then is reflected brightly in the light of the sun. You can see the direct analogy on a very specific level with regard to the idea that the closer you allow yourself to be to that light, that inner light of the infinite, and as you thus then are warmed by that light, you will find all sorts of ideas spewing forth and inspirations spewing forth because you will be on a vibratory level that will be representative and indicative of such thought, of such awareness, of such awakening, of such inspiration. So allow yourselves the opportunity to experience what life is like on the level that the comet shows you by its commitment to be itself, to let you know it is there, not to hide in the darkness of space, but to flare brightly announcing its presence. Thus being capable of brilliant displays, as each and every one of you also are. That bubbling up, that effervescence, that joy unbounded and unlimited that you can experience. That is your birthright because you are the light, the reflected light of the infinite.

So eloquently said, another E. We mentioned earlier that when you see the comet, it may elicit a big "wow" from you. That "wow" can be about you. As Bashar has been saying, your excitement and certainly your unique orbit. You're finding it now. It's not something that you are still wandering through the marshes to find. You are finding your gifts. You are finding your unique talents, your unique and wondrous powers and abilities and skills. You're finding your imagination. You're finding your "wow." You have been really on your quest for a while now. And it's time really to see that your orbit is indeed clearer and clearer more than ever before. What we would suggest is being suggested tonight is certainly that the time for the commitment to that orbit, to really seeing how it is etching itself in your world and in your universe, is really, really at hand. 

Another I-word: *Intersection*. Understand that the idea now of the change that is required within each and every one of you when you make the commitment to be yourself will be like a 90-degree vector off of where you have been. If you now will also realize the symbology of the orbit of your planet. If you consider that to be one plane like a flat disc around your sun, you will understand that the orbit of the comet is exactly almost 90 degrees to your orbit. Thus symbolically representative of the direction you need to go. This is a direct analogy to the idea of electromagnetic structure. What you call electro waves, magnetic waves are 90 degrees to each other, the same relationship as the cometary orbit to your Earth's orbit. Thus, you have right now a brilliant opportunity to take advantage of the intersection of these two vibrations that together form the component of a true large-scale electromagnetic wave. 

The idea then is that there is a vibration specifically keyed to this change that you can ride the wave of, to some degree. It has been talked about this concept that many of you have called the photon belt. And we have discussed the idea that this is simply an electromagnetic manifestation of the leading edge, so to speak, of your collective consciousness piling up against the barrier you have created to change, so that you can bring enough momentum to that barrier to break through. The idea of the photon belt is simply an electromagnetic side effect to you breaking through your own speed of light, so to speak. This intersection of your planetary orbit with the comet's orbit at 90 degrees also is part and parcel of the idea of the manifestation of electromagnetic phenomenology, such as the concept of photon belt being generated by your consciousness. So as your consciousness of your one reality plane intersects the reality plane of another dimension, another domain represented by the 90-degree orbit of the comet, you create such ideas and experiences in the electromagnetic field, such as the concept of photon belt and other abilities to extend your physical senses and begin to see electromagnetic light that here before you could not see. 

So there is truly a large-scale electromagnetic pulse because of these intersections that is representative of the new magnitude and amplitude that you are capable of expressing your spirit as, because consciousness expresses itself in physical reality as the concept of spirit, which is electromagnetically organized energy. So take advantage of this auspicious timing of the expansion of this electromagnetic wave and ride it, ride it, ride it, flow with it. It will carry you high, fast, and far. You can ride it as well with your bodies more than before, taking responsibility for the elevating of the vibration of your bodies, physical body, with your food, your good self-love of body. Yes. Taking good care of it, using the vibration of music and sound and tone that is now becoming ever so recognized and recognizable as important. Using the vibration of meditation to activate the pineal and pituitary glands with electromagnetics that are more expanded than ever before. You can use those centers and your brain in new electromagnetic ways more than ever before. 

So the physicalization of the expanded vibrations is also at hand. Yet certainly it takes your focus, well, your commitment and your discipline to affect these things with your body. So we recommend, as above, so below, as it is happening in consciousness, working with those electromagnetic expansions, also work with your bodies. This pituitary and pineal junction that Torah talks about at this time is critical. Critical in that it needs to be balanced and can be balanced now most advantageously at this time. Do pay attention to the idea of remembering that you are in essence, as a physiological presentment, an electromagnetic field. And as you allow yourself to become more superconductive, more fluid, more flexible, more flowing, as you intersect yourself with new ideas, and as Torah has suggested, allow for a rewiring and a rechannelling of yourself into a new format, then you will also be capable in your meditations of allowing the balance between the pituitary and the pineal and a few other centers in your body to truly bring forth new manifestations in your physical reality. New possible electromagnetic phenomenology that will be representative of your mastery of the idea that physical reality is what you are. It is not really something you live in. 

The idea also, as has to some degree been expressed by Torah, and which we would like to further at this moment, and involves another I-word, is the concept of *Ice*, which of course is symbolized by the concept of the comet being a type of icy body. Ice is water, and water has oxygen, and oxygen is the key. So as you begin in your meditations to activate the pituitary and the pineal, remember oxygenation breathing is critical, for oxygen is the transformational critical key element that allows for the idea of combustion and rapid change within you. So as you partake of more oxygenation in your meditations and deep breathing exercises, also remember to hydrate yourselves with more water. The idea thus then is that you will be appropriately energized both from fire and ice and water so that you can create the balance and all the usages of electromagnetic energy that will allow for the greatest and smoothest, most effortless changes.

As you each think on your own individual ways of putting these recommendations into your life, we recommend that you get specific. How will I drink more water? How will I breathe more deeply? How will I expand the pineal-pituitary intersection in that way with greater meditations? How will I make use of this wondrous expansion that has been in motion for quite some time now? We recommend you get specific. Rather than come away from this evening with a few vague ideas that you can't quite put into your life in any way, we recommend that you get specific along many lines. Certainly with your own unique orbit, with carving out your map of where you choose to have impact in your reality and in your own life and in the lives of those who you touch, to get specific about how and what you will want to do and what 90-degree changes you may wish to make in your own daily life. 

We take a moment to speak of a very well, very late in the alphabet word. It starts with a U. Not a Y. U. You. And that for *Utopia*. You see, many times you human beings will get in your mind, "I've got to do it perfectly. If I'm going to breathe more, I want this world." This word utopia is very important because it can in one moment be an inspiration, and in the next moment a deflation, right? Because utopian ideas so often can be well disappointing because of ways you have aspired to utopian scripts in your own life and then had your disappointments in your past. So the reflection of the comet as a bringer of a utopia is going to be a temptation for some and a dread for others. "Oh, I don't want to look at the fact that there's a potential utopia here with this planet, with this comet, because that's going to be a letdown. I'm used to all the letdowns I've had every time I've wanted a utopian daily life for myself. Every time I have imagined this, it didn't happen. I was around in the 60s and I wanted utopia, free love, smoke your way into a wonderful turning in, turning on, and all that good stuff. Utopia is here. I was disappointed then. I don't want to look to a utopia now." 

And on the other side of the coin, there are those who do want to look to a utopia now. "Ah, the comet is bringing it. It's going to be all different by April. The whole world will be utopia. Well, maybe by May. Well, certainly by December, won't it?" So, you see, this U-word can be an important consideration for those who are constructively using their imagination. Am I observer of a comet projecting a utopian something or other onto this flying hunk of ice? Thank you. She got it. Thanks. Or am I really going to look at this in terms of something that seems a little bit more real? Real not just in terms of mundane, but real in the magical mystical way as well, yet not utopian. Integration is key. Integration is key. So as you do consider, what would be my 90-degree turn? What would be my approach to making use of this powerful reflection? Beware the utopian dread or overexpectation. 

Another D-word is paramount here, and that is *Discernment*. This, in having commitment to yourself above all, requires discernment for allowing there to be a balance of all the ideas so that you can really discern what seems to be, shall we say, practical for your reality as well as ideal. It must be a blending, in a marriage and a balance of the concepts of idealization, and also recognizing that your feet need to stay firmly on the ground. It is thus then again no accident, and a beautiful collective created synchronicity, that the comet's perihelion, that is the closest approach to your sun, will be literally smack on April 1st, April Fool's Day, when in your tradition you never quite know what to make of what anyone might say. So it is a perfect reflection to have discernment over what you really need to have as your truth, to mix and match and pull together the truly integrated result of a balanced idea, rather than being in that sense scattered in one direction or another, too fearful or too giddy. The idea simply of that perfect balanced resonance of knowing, of knowing that you can engineer, so to speak, that you can orchestrate, so to speak, a perfect harmonious balance of all of the best ideas from all levels of life. 

And to remember that not only can you stand for the concept, as Torah has described it, of the positive and negative polarities of utopia, but as a reminder, of course, it can also stand in for you: Universe. And in that sense, not only the letter U, but the "You," meaning that you are your own universe. So decide in that day of deciding between all truths which truths are true for you. And on April Fool's Day, you also have the opportunity to do as the archetype of the fool and go into the unknown. Yet you have the opportunity of going into the unknown with the known, that is you, within your discernment. The known that you know within you. You take your known, the known of you, into the unknown. And in that way, well, it diminishes some of the terror, doesn't it? So as you use the discernment to be with the known that you know, what you know about yourself, what you know about your power of choice, your power of creativity, your power to create your own reality, what you know of this is unknown, and you take that into the unknown on April Fool's Day and have a lot of fun. Have a lot of fun trusting yourself, not with a rigid set of rules that is coming from domination, but trusting the creator within you. The light within you, the creator within you. You are magnificent fools perched on the edge of great, great creativity. How appropriate that April Fool's Day should be the closest passing of this wondrous hunk of ice. In that way, how wondrous a cosmic joke. 

So make a friend, as Torah has suggested, a friend of the unknown, and allow yourself to delight in the beauty of the synchronicity of the structure of your own language, in how, as Torah has beautifully and brilliantly reflected to you, the unknown simply does begin with "U" (you), and if you go into it, that you do become known to yourself, for the unknown only contains more of who you are. Do not fear it. It is only, I'll say it again, only in the unknown that you will actually discover who you are. So, make it a friend. It will not hurt you. It doesn't bite. Unless, of course, you bring your own teeth to bear on yourself, which you do not have to do any longer. It is about allowance. Of course, this change, all the change that you are experiencing yourself to be, is about allowing yourself to be who you are. The unknown is like the crucible of freedom in that the limitations are released. You are in the unknown truly unlimited, and in that sense can really use it as a crucible to define who you want to be. And similar to the concept of the comet, allow yourself to become a beautiful crystallized idea and reflection of what you deem to be your truth.

We are going to go to an F-word. Oh, not that one. Not that one. Well, yes, that one. The big scary one. *Future*. The scariest F-word there is. Right. Future. We have a little cosmic joke to play upon you now as we are getting ready for the break. And it is not really a joke, but it is a bit of humor with a profound depth to it. In the future, we are privy to a little bit of information that has been researched thanks to lots of very intricate computer programs about a particular meaningful crop circle. Two more C-words: meaningful crop circle. A crop circle that appeared. Well, it would be two years ago this year, or a year ago last summer, that is commonly called the asteroid belt, or one of the asteroid belt crop circle reflections. This is a crop circle many of you are aware of. Many of you don't know what the heck we're talking about. That's all right. You can ask the ones who do know and they'll tell you all about it. This crop circle showed orbits with what could be construed as planets, and in the center a circle that could be construed as a sun. The outer point of this entire configuration was what could be construed as an asteroid, though. The third orbit from this center that could be considered the sun, where ordinarily one could think that planet Earth is, had no planet upon it. So this particular crop circle people have called "the Earth is missing." Good grief. What a sad use of imagination. Nevertheless, that is what it is often called by some people, this particular crop circle. 

Well, well, well. We would like to say something about this formation at this time. It relates to the comet. A friend of the channels, a scientific lad indeed, one of those wonderful English left-brainers, very academic, delightful fellow, decided to configure his computer program in such a way that he would look at the solar system from Hailbop. He set it up on his computer, three-dimensional formatting, to see the movement of the planet, the orbit, and he decided to take a ride on Hailbop. Visually speaking, "If I was riding Hailbop," he said, "If I was coming into the solar system on Hailbop, what would I see? Would I by any stretch of the imagination find the configuration that came up in the crop circle? Would those planets that are drawn out clearly in the weed in the crop circle show the same angles at any point that are shown in the configuration of the planetary angles in the crop circle? Would those angles show up if I was riding on Hailbop?" 

Well, he looked at it and he looked at it, and he figured out the dates of the Hailbop coming so close to Earth. And he looked at it, didn't find anything. There was nothing there. And finally one day, he went back to his computer and thought, "Well, I'll just keep riding Hailbop away from Earth to see if it ever comes up. What date could it possibly be?" And he's plugging away. Bingo. He got a date where the exact configuration and angle and alignment matched those that are implied in the crop circle. Would you like to know the date? Because it is a significant date. One must think there's a correlation. We'll leave it to you. January 1st, 2001. 01-01-01. Oh, another new beginning. Another demarcation time. It is a little too ironic to be ignored. Another marker. Another marker. Another marker. It does not mean that planet Earth will not exist. It does not mean it is not going to be there. Some would like to project that meaning on there. But no, no, it is also implying, as this comet is, now a new beginning. A new beginning, a new way to view. Not a literal new beginning, but a new view possible. A new you, new view, new universe possible, as you all radiate your love. 

And of course, if you really want to get technical, 2001 is when the new millennium begins, though most will be celebrating it in 2000 because of the turn of the numbers. So, have a good time with that one. Those of you who know that crop circle.

**[Bashar]:**  Only that we shall allow them to ponder upon the idea of 01-01-01. Enjoy your discontinuity. 

### **Part 3: Q&A Session**

**[Torah]:** it is so wonderful to sense your unseen friends and we are so grateful they are here and they are multitudinous and they are of the multitudinous natures and many kinds, many wondrous ones, and we welcome them as well as all of you. We will begin with questions, but we will take a moment to await the more formalized arrival, if you will, of dear Bashar. We think, and we will just before the idea of questions, remind you of the opportunity for the sighting of your comet is approaching more and more advantageously toward the ending of your present month as you call it of March, and especially in the auspicious timing of what you call your 23rd date, 24th date of March, being the day of a lunar eclipse, so that the skies will darken sufficiently to allow you clearer sighting of your comet. Again, you have orchestrated the timing of these ideas with beautiful precision to afford yourself the best opportunity for seeing the reflection in the comet as you gaze upon its form and know that it is present. For treating it as a mirror to see the reflection of any face you so choose to be. And in so choosing from an infinite array of faces and presentation and ideas and reality, knowing that all of them, of course, together are the reflection of the face of the infinite. And that this is another opportunity, especially during time of viewing, for communion within yourself and with all that. 

And in that the number three is a number of a wondrous divine trinity of many kinds, we would add a third element. You are also still within a certain window of energy at that time of the 23rd, the lunar eclipse, that is what you call your equinox energy. It will be just at the fringe of that window of time you call equinox. Nevertheless, it does intersect and could be called a third, yet a third energetic. March 23rd, the comet and the lunar eclipse combined with the equinox. Equal energy with light and dark. How's that for a reflection? Wondrous reflection. Your moon eclipsed. Well, given significance, not eclipsed in its importance, but augmented in its importance by that eclipse. A wonderful triad of energies for your March 23rd. If you wish at this timing to begin with sharing, then by all means you may proceed according to your own imagination and synchronicity. And we will be focusing as much as possible upon the subject matter at hand in that way. So we would appreciate that, and the clarity of your question will also assist in the clarity of the response. Questions or sharing.

**[Audience Member 1]:**  There's a place in Ecuador called Vilcabamba where people are living to 120 years old.

The speculation is that it's the water around there, and I was wondering if there was any special properties in the water, and lithium was one I wanted to know if that was in the water.

**[Bashar]:**  To some degree there are, but this is again a reflection of the consciousness of the people as well, and that they have synchronistically allowed themselves to be in this location, and that the entirety of the location, shall we say, has conspired together to be a reflection of their own sense of health. 

It is more the idea of lifestyle than just the water. In that especially they allow themselves all the air, the water, and removal of stress from their reality as they possibly can. In that they enjoy and understand their connection with the infinite and with nature in a very natural way. This then will be reflected in the environment to allow all of the elements of the environment to contain that which is reflective of the continuance of such longevity and such ideas of health. But again, remember it begins with the consciousness, for the physical reality is only a reflection of this.

**[Torah]:** We would say that there is another piece of information about the United States that the rest of you might want to consider when considering that there seem to be exotic places where people live to long years. We were, let us say, informed of the idea that there are over 40,000 people in the United States over 100 years of age, cutting edge of the longevity, and in that way you've got some good things going here too.

**[Audience Member 2]:** 
All right, greetings Bashar and Torah, and thank you. Um, Torah, this is just a thank you and it's a statement, there's no question, but um, recently, maybe it was yesterday, I'm not sure, in the dream time, I was visited by some very, very ancient Aboriginal men and they told me that they were tired and that they were tired of dreaming the planet Earth and they wanted to rest. And I realized that I know enough and so many of us know enough that we can actively come together and do this and they don't have to keep doing it. And when you mentioned that, um, well you said imagining, imagining the world, and that's the same thing to me. So I just want to say thank you for reflecting that so quickly to me.

**[Torah]:** 
There is a passing of the baton that is occurring. Yeah. And as long as we're conscious that we're able to do it, we will do it as long as you reach out and take the baton. Right. Remember, consciousness is one thing. Commitment is also another thing. Correct. I'm making up flyers.

**[Audience Member 3]:** 
All right. Hi to Bashar. Greetings. This question is to both. Um, I'm curious to know if there is a correlation or relationship of the comet to the great Mayan calendar.

**[Bashar]:** 
Yes. You will find to some degree that there is, but it will be to some degree woven into some of the parameters of the calendar in a way that may not at first be obvious. With further research, in that sense, you will find that almost any significant astronomical occurrence will to some degree be counted in, if only in its energy format or its reflective quality, into that calendar. For those ancients understood the cycles of things and did in a very creative way combine them in many of their works of that nature. But you need to know where to look, right? So, a hunting expedition.

**[Audience Member 4]:** 
Hello Torah. Hello Bashar. Good day. Something you said a while ago about the comet appearing around 6,000 years ago really piqued my interest. You mentioned that it coincided with the, I believe, the arrival of Orion energies. When I did some research for my book, what I learned was about 6,000 years ago began the rise of male domination. That's an Orion trait. This is very exciting for me because the implication then that the current experience of this comet could signify a more balanced shift that's taking place between masculine and feminine energy. Is that correct?

**[Bashar]:** 
Yes. Of course. Exactly. 

**[Torah]:** 
Absolutely. Absolutely. Something that has been in the works for quite some time, as you know, dear one. 

**[Bashar]:** 
Ah yeah. It's been in the works for quite some time. Isn't it nice to know there is yet another significant, or another marker, for such an equality? Yes. It's very exciting. Yes. And the reflective omen here on behalf of the comet is the idea of the importance of that blending. Indeed, the criticalness of that blending. For in almost all of what your people experience as the concept of disease lies the idea of the segregation and separation of the feminine and masculine energies. So the omen is, if you do not blend, if you do not marry those ideas and integrate them fully, then the negative side of the omen is that the idea and the concept of self-destruction is all that can result if these things are not integrated. Not to put any fear in anything, but just the idea that there is always the opportunity to recognize the dire warning simply as an invitation to know yourself and what it is you really can create positively and constructively within yourselves, and that it will have positive and constructive consequences that will permeate your entire existence and reality, if it is so. The use of imagination, part of the feminine vibration; the use of imagination, putting it to use, part of the masculine vibration. Using it, putting it into action, very, very important when it comes to solving your planet's primary issues.

**[Audience Member 4]:** 
Another thought that struck me, from what I understand about the comet, it didn't hurt at all. Actually, the comet itself, I understand, is made up of particles of matter, of course, form, and frozen water. Form representing perhaps masculine energy and the water, the feminine energy. 

**[Bashar]:** 
Very insightful. Very good. You see, it is easy to access these kinds of understandings. All you have to do is dip in. Yes.

**[Audience Member 4]:** 
And thanks for your help in understanding these things. And as it streaks through the sky, it gives off a combination of the two.

**[Bashar]:** 
Indeed. Thank you for your wondrous thoughts.

**[Audience Member 5 (Joseph)]:** 
Um, this question is for both of you, I guess. Well then I guess we might both answer it. I guess you will. Okay. Thanks. I've forgotten your humor. We're kidding. We could guess differently, too. Uh, the question would be, um, since we've been talking about the energy of the comet itself, we recognize, oh, the great streaker, we like to call it, the great streaker. Is there some way that, um, as individuals, we can tap into this directly to the electromagnetic energy on that physical plane? Because much as what we talk about with some of the other, say, the Sirius vortex that also pours energy down into our galaxy. Um, what then, how can we tap in in a meditative way or to sit with the energy? And the other level is, we've been talking about the physical makeup of a comet, and um, I realize when I read a lot of material, uh, it's very vague, although we talk about ice and water, and yet it's heat, so it seems some major contradictions going on in that arena, polarity. Yes. Um, but the other question would be, then, the other levels of dimensions that comets exist on. What would be some of the other... could you say that again please? Well, the other dimensions in which the comet exists? Are there beings or is there something that we should kind of understand where it actually, um, consciousness? Yes. Is connected to everything.

**[Bashar]:** 
All right. And everything is made of consciousness. In that sense and in that context, anything, even though it may appear in your terms to be simply inanimate or dead matter in one reality, may be associated to all forms of life in other levels and dimensional realities. Not that you would necessarily recognize it as such, but consciousness will always find some way to be reflected in any symbol. And everything that exists exists on every level in some form. Again, though you may not really recognize it as such on certain dimensional levels in the same way you would recognize it in your own. Also, Torah will address for you some of the ideas of your individual capability to access this energy. You could also remember that yes, it is the great streaker. What consciousness would it take to be the great streaker? Well, put a little imagination to that.

**[Torah]:** 
All right. What we would like to say about aligning yourself to that energy, as you have also mentioned how you choose to from time to time align with the Sirius energy, to align with the comet energy: we would suggest that you imagine yourself riding upon it, just as that gentleman in England did do with his computer. And as you ride upon it, yes, you become the great streaker. What does the great streaker want to do? Well, if you wish, you create it all. You decide what it is you do want to do. Do you wish to align with the electromagnetics in that regard? In which case, put your imagination to work. If you want to go along for the ride to see what you see, oh boy, you're going to see a lot. You've already been passing a lot of planets. Now, how do you want to ride it? Do you want to hold on for dear life like that and let your hair fly behind you? If you've got it, you've got hair that flies. Do you want to hold on? Maybe you don't. 

**[Audience Member 5 (Joseph)]:** 
Yes. To this is Joseph. So it may be a bit of draft too.

**[Torah]:** 
The big streaker produces big draft. So also, um, you may wish to hold on by your heels, by your knees, by your fingers, by your toes. How would you want to ride the comet? How would you like to pass by the various planets you're going to pass by? Would you like to align with the different energies of them? Of course, you're going in that 90-degree angle that is different from some of the orbits. How would that be for you? Uh, again, we recommend an imaginative ride on the comet as one way, one way to align. Another way, very important, is to think of the comet in the most obvious way that you experience it when you view it by your eyes, and that is as light. How would you become that light? How would you imagine yourself to connect with that light? Many ways would come to mind, would they not? Certainly imagining the light within you, the infinite within you, your higher self spark of all that is within you, connecting it up to that comet, riding the beam out to that comet to align those lights. All you need to do is use your imagination and you will in that way find the way to connect that is most beneficial for you. Does that help you, dear Joseph?

**[Audience Member 5 (Joseph)]:** 
Yes. 

**[Bashar]:** 
And Joseph, we must say to you, if we may on a personal note, you are in orbit and it's really time to fly.

**[Audience Member 5 (Joseph)]:** 
All right. Thank you. Blessings, or we haven't finished yet. I was trying to let the wind fly through my hair.

**[Bashar]:** 
The idea also, of course, we trust that you perceive in Torah's point, yes, is that if you have the imagination to ask such a question, you know that you have the imagination to invent whatever way works best for you, just as your people are observing the comet physically through telescopes. Your imaginations are your telescopes into the collective consciousness. And you can, by using that imagination as such, as Torah has pointed out, invent the best way for yourself to extract experience from this overall event and put the meaning into it that will work best for you in terms of providing the effect that is most relevant to your own life, your own growth, your own creative urge. Does that make sense?

**[Audience Member 5 (Joseph)]:** 
Yes. 

**[Torah]:** 
And as you are in your own orbit right now, really taking off, this comet can be a wonderful source of energy for you, an infusion, a dynamo like a rocket to spin you more strongly into the orbit of your uniqueness. The wondrous way you are being of service, Joseph, is, as you know, very critically important at this time, and you are on the cutting edge of it. Keep cutting, keep cutting, keep digging, keep, well, let us say, uh, letting that rocket shoot you stronger and stronger into more and more commitment. Your work is most important and we thank you for your service.

**[Audience Member 5 (Joseph)]:** 
Thank you.

**[Audience Member 6]:** 
Hello. Bashar, this is directed uh towards you. The, uh, are the present excavations that are going on as far as digging into the Sphinx and finding the, um, the artifacts that have to do with Atlantis and stuff. Is that, uh, coincidental or synchronistic with the comet?

**[Bashar]:** 
And again, in that the idea of the symbolic reflection of the comet is for great change, sweeping change, then it will in some sense herald or reflect that your society is ready to make great changes, some of which of course would be the infusion of information that has for a long time been hidden and bringing that information to light. So while there may be an overall general window of opportunity in this that may extend a little bit beyond the comet's presence in your system or at least in proximity to your planet, still it is the reflection, yes, of the idea of that which is in darkness being illuminated like a torch in the blackest night, as the comet is, and significant and symbolic of the discovery of things that have been in darkness for a long time. For it now is time for all of you to shed your light on these things. So yes, it is significant in that sense of the timing that this is about to be, relatively speaking, unveiled.

**[Audience Member 6]:** 
How close until they do find it?

**[Bashar]:** 
Now let me ask the question of you. Is that not up to you? It's your planet, isn't it? Are you going to take the actions that will help accelerate the ability to uncover this information, or are you just going to sit around and wait for others to do it? Did I not talk of commitment? 

**[Audience Member 6]:** 
Yes, you did. 

**[Bashar]:** 
If you are then excited about these ideas, why be a bystander? Be the P-word, a participant.

**[Audience Member 6]:** 
Gotcha. And also, do you know exactly where, um, King Amenhotep I was buried?

**[Bashar]:** 
One moment. Yes. 

**[Audience Member 6]:** 
Could you tell us?

**[Bashar]:** 
No. However, there will be an opportunity to discuss this in another transmission. 

**[Audience Member 6]:** 
Okay. When?

**[Bashar]:** 
When things are unearthed in that way from the Sphinx, there will be a lot of surprises. There will be a lot of work in consciousness, a lot of trying to figure things out. And as you are all discovering great truths in the evolution of consciousness now already, you will probably be surprised to find that information that is revealed is not as new as you might think and not as old as you might think. So there will be a lot of integration. There's that word again, a lot of integration of the old and the new. And very important would be the importance of valuing what you know already against the backdrop of this newly discovered information, to remember that it will be coming from another time when there were a lot of things quite, quite, quite different. So there will be a lot of need for integration, and as we would say, need for valuing yourselves and what you already know, rather than to place on a pedestal these ancient artifacts. 

However, we are also at this time allowed to share one more thing with you about this chamber and its contents, in that this particular comet did thus also synchronistically reflect primarily before the destruction of Atlantis, that timing. You will find then that now this is the fourth time since then it has returned. You will find within the chamber when it is open some representation of the comet and the number four, meaning that by the time it came back for the fourth time, it would be time for these things to be revealed. Thus then the sacred four directions recognized as the comet crossing each path of the four. It is now completed one cycle of the four directions and it is time for unlocking and revelation in that sense. Yes. And for the number of manifestation in that way.

**[Audience Member 7 (Victoria)]:** 
Thank you. Question. Hi Torah. Hi Bashar. Good day. Um, I had an experience this past weekend that I want to share that I just dawned on me might be very synchronous to this comet idea. Um, a friend of mine came down and we decided we were going to have an adventure this weekend and we were very excited and we had planned a couple of things to do and we were kind of tired and decided we'd only plan a couple of things so we wouldn't get too tired. And we started out on our adventure going to places that really, really, really interested us. So the first place we went, we were absolutely both just shot out of the moon with our imaginations because of all the art, and we both love art. The second place that we went, we were just so high was to pick up a gift from one of my clients because they were telling me I was doing a good job. So they gave me like 900 yards of, I mean $900 worth of fabric. It was like, "Wow, you know, no clients ever do this." We're walking out and they said, "Oh, by the way, um, isn't your friend a quilter?" "Yeah." "Well, why don't you go upstairs and take all the fabric samples that you can load into these two huge boxes in the house for free? We're just getting rid of them." And it was just like two kids in a candy store. We absolutely were aghast at the gift and unexpectedness of it. Went upstairs, just started viewing all these beautiful colors and designs and taking this and taking that, and as fast as we could choose them and put them in the box. What excited us and what thrilled us, and we're just, we couldn't do anything but say, "Wow, wow. I can't believe the universe is doing this. I can't believe this is happening." And we're looking at each other and we're going, "Wow, wow." And we're running around these rooms picking these beautiful, beautiful colors, sharing them with each other, and just in an awesome space, an absolutely awesome space. And so we load everything up, we come home, we're reflecting on what an absolute gorgeous day it is. We go out the next day and the whole thing starts all over again. The universe is just, at every turn that we made, was giving us gifts. So challenging you to receive. 

**[Torah]:** 
Receive in ways you do not expect. In other words, ways you cannot control or dominate. Right? 

**[Audience Member 7 (Victoria)]:** 
And we were allowing ourselves to be in the flow of it. And the flow just didn't stop. It went on for three or four days. Solid magic after magic after magic. And I was getting so full that I decided, challenged receive. Yes. In my challenge state, full, I can't receive anymore. It felt like I was going to explode. So I would sit down and I would meditate so that I could balance with this amount of enjoyment and this amount of physical excitement. And then it, what will I do without my drama, without my sadness? Oh, yeah. Yeah. It was very, very strange. And it just kept going and it just kept going and it just kept going. But then one of the things that happened after I settled down is I got sick with a cold. And so I kind of wonder because you had to find an end to it, didn't you? I guess it was a bit much for your belief system.

**[Bashar]:** 
Time to stretch the belief system a little more. Challenging you to receive. Stretch your belief system. Stretch the deservability. And beware that next time you have such a nice aura, there's going to be that old belief, that little part of you, unless you challenge it and take it to task beforehand, that little part of you that says, "Well, when is it all going to crash? When is it all going to end? I'll probably get a cold. I'll probably, etc., etc., something." Yes. Something. So whenever any of you are in a flow, in a rush, in a wondrous infusion of energy, challenged to receive, just keep saying yes, yes, I'll receive this. I deserve this and more. I am grateful. I'm going to hold my energy of gratitude, hold my energy of creativity. There is no price to pay for my joy. No price to pay for my joy. No cold, no flu to pay for my joy. No price to pay for my joy. That's a hard one for humans. My goodness, it's a hard one. Yes, it is primarily based on the training that you have received to think that you must earn a living in that sense, in the terms of deservability. And that the idea of change coming with no effort seems so astounding to many of you that you will give yourself, in the face of all of this flood of joy, some pain so that you can prove that you deserve all the rest of the joy, because you automatically attach now, from your training, the idea that if you don't have the pain, you cannot earn the gain. 

The idea, therefore, as Torah has said, is to learn that you already actually contain way more than you can imagine. In a sense, it is already yours. What you have experienced though in this stretching you have described, in this synchronistic expansion of ecstasy that you have described, is what we were talking about in terms of the side effects of commitment to being yourself. That's what happens. And I will let you in on another little secret. You haven't experienced anything yet. The most expansive moment you can remember in what you have just described will pale by comparison to what all of you are about to experience within yourselves by having the commitment and by letting go of the idea that somehow you have to have the pain in order to deserve to have the change and the ecstasy. 

So, dear Victoria, next time you set it up so that you go where you really, really want to go, that's the key, isn't it? That's the clue. You'll know you're doing the appropriate thing, the expansive thing. And when you go to think about, where do I really, really want to go, we're not only talking about place. We are talking about an emotional space, psychological space, spiritual space where you really, really, really want to go. Only go where you really, really, really want to go. You're in charge.

**[Audience Member 7 (Victoria)]:** 
All right. Thank you for the reflection. Thank you.

**[Audience Member 8 (Robin)]:** 
Uh yes. Uh my name is Robin and um I was told uh via another channeler that um along with this comet there would be a uh a ship, and that the ship would bring extraterrestrials to the earth. I'm sure there are others who have heard the same thing. And um were you present at the beginning of this transition? Yes, I was. And I was wondering, is this a contradiction to what you said, or was this particular channeler ill-informed?

**[Bashar]:** 
It is not a contradiction if you understand that what we were saying is that while there is no other physical object in association with this comet, the idea is that each and every individual will use it as a reflective mirror that will amplify, like a magnifying glass, the strongest point of view they have about what they think is the most likely representation for the reality vibration that they prefer. But many people on your planet will still confuse that kind of a reflection with an actual physicalized outward projection, thinking that it needs to be physical in order for it to be a valid reflection of what it is that is necessary for them to do as a vibration in order to allow your reality or their reality to be the kind of reality they want it to be. So the idea is not to project it out that the extraterrestrials, such as ourselves, will come along hitching a ride on the comet, but that the idea that it represents is exactly the kind of energy that the individual making the perception needs to manifest within their own reality, and then they will experience the idea of what that kind of reality can be like. But this may simply be that the channel will have placed within the belief system still the assumption and expectation that what is being perceived as energy in truth must always manifest in a specific way in order to be valid. Do you understand?

**[Audience Member 8 (Robin)]:** 
I understand on some level, not entirely, but I'll mull that over. Think symbolism and that'll be the clue.

**[Bashar]:** 
Yes. Okay. Thank you.

**[Audience Member 9]:** 
Good evening both of you. Good day. Good day. Um I want to thank you. This is like a, this is awesome. This experience is like just like a symphony. A New Age symphony. It was awesome.

**[Bashar]:** 
You are the music as well, dear one. Thank you. Thank you. I know. Carry on.

**[Audience Member 9]:** 
Um, she knew it was good. Um, as I was coming up here to ask my question, somebody said to ask you the diameter of the nucleus and what it was made out of.

**[Bashar]:** 
20 miles. And what it was, but it is not exactly a diameter in that sense. It is an elongated form. And again, and it has been said, you will find that there is a stone matrix with some other mineral elements mixed in, some metallic elements, but again also the idea of frozen ice, in that sense, water. 

**[Audience Member 9]:** 
And you did mention it was made out of the same stuff we were. That's why when it passes we go, we see ourselves like going through the eye of the needle. Is that correct?

**[Bashar]:** 
In some senses, yes, it is reflective of the fundamental basics of your life, the water, the oxygen in that sense, and is representative of the passage of yourself through the eye of the needle so that you come out the other side more expanded. Yes, this is one symbolic interpretation of its journey around the sun. Simply beware of the hot air. Yes, little joke there. Gases, you know, it gives off the gases in the hot air, and well, well, be careful of your own hot air. Be careful of your own gases as reflections, of course. Just symbols.

**[Audience Member 9]:** 
Just symbols. Thank you.

**[Audience Member 10]:** 
My question is, um, Bashar, you were talking, and I would like Torah's feedback too, because you were there this event I'm speaking of, but you spoke about the cloning with the effects of the change from the comet, that new things, information would come out. Um, this week you are speaking to Bashar, yes, but you were also there where what we did this weekend Saturday night, you are speaking of, we were not there, not the entity. You are saying that the channel Shawn was present? Yes, but wasn't Mura with her? Do you think that we do not have other jobs? Well, I figured since so many other spirits are here tonight, you guys might... It's a bit mundane to follow her around all the time. No offense, but we have other things to do, too. Yes. Well, I will ask my question. Bashar, you had talked about, um, the cloning and the positive aspects, um, and said that your people could also use it for negative reasons, just like anything that you do. It's up to you. Yes. Um, Seth had said that, um, it was not, we do not wish to get into entity wars here in that regard. Just a new phrase to think about.

**[Bashar]:** 
Well, no, I didn't. He said, she said, yes, the he-said-she-said sort of polarity. We would say the main thing for you, dear one, to think on is: how do you perceive these circumstances? How do you imagine cloning will be? And furthermore, after that, how do you want to imagine it? You start with how you are imagining it now. This energy said this, this energy said that. And then you go to, how do you want to imagine it? And if you have an opinion, put it out there into your reality. Find what you feel about it and take action upon it if you wish in that way. What is being said here is that the first thing that is cloned is ideas. So when you are presented with a piece of information, it is up to you to decide whether you want to clone it or not, or own it or not. Yes. Own it or clone it. You decide.

**[Audience Member 10]:** 
That's what I thought. Thank you.

**[Audience Member 11]:** 
Uh good evening the two of you. Good day. Um I'm interested in the concept, um, the transformation from third-dimensional reality into fourth-dimensional reality and as a collective consciousness as a whole at this particular moment in time. Um, when approximately would you think that, uh, I can feel the synchronistic changes myself in a much more rapid pace than before, but I'm interested in the mass consciousness level. Um, you know, date and time, are you asking? Well, not exactly date and time, but approximately time. Next, well, maybe April Fool's Day 1997, but like when approximately, um, mass amounts of people would be, uh, feeling this particular acceleration of manifestation.

**[Bashar]:** 
I don't know. That's what do you think is happening in this room? Acceleration of consciousness. Then are you not seeing it?

**[Audience Member 11]:** 
I thought you guys might do this to me. So, yes, I realize. Yeah, that's it's going. 

**[Bashar]:** 
You all already know in general that there is an overall window of timing. Yes. And you all already know in general that in approximately over the course of what you would call the next couple of decades of time, you will see more examples and more examples and more examples of what it is you are referring to. But if you keep denying that you're seeing it now, it will take longer by your own creation. So you are seeing it. You're in the midst of it. Here you are having a conversation with entities from other dimensions in a group of accelerating beings. Is that not exactly what it is about?

**[Audience Member 11]:** 
I thought you guys would say that. [Laughter] If you find you need a utopian moment that hits you over the head and says "now," then I'll get a brick. [Laughter] We'll explore that. Yes. I'm also curious about, um, create the actual moment by moment creation and there's no past and no future. If we're creating every single moment exactly like frame by frame, I guess you can call it, and it gives us a perception of time. Um, does that mean that at this particular moment, even though like say old photographs that I have of when I was a kid are being manifested in this moment by myself as my reality in this moment?

**[Bashar]:** 
Yes. Okay. For the simple answer. Okay. Look at it again this way. Everything that you perceive as a different moment is the same one moment from a different point of view. Okay. Does that make sense to you?

**[Audience Member 11]:** 
Yeah. I was wondering about the picture thing. I understand. 

**[Bashar]:** 
But the answer is still the same. But if you want to put it in linear terminology, then the simple answer is yes. But you have to understand that that's still an analogy. Any description of how you think physical reality is created can only be, by definition, an analogy. But yes, it's an analogy that can work. Okay? So nothing gets like dragged over something. Every single, every element of everything, everything is now, and only now exists. So anything that exists now is created now. That's it.

**[Audience Member 11]:** 
That's it. Okay. Thank you very much.

**[Audience Member 12 (Sabra)]:** 
Hello, this is Sabra. Greetings, dear one to you. Good day. Greetings. Uh, Bashar, you were at my house about 10 days ago. I was not, but the channel was there. Some combination. Um, and in between the time that we showed the UFO films and the time that the channeling took place, there was a hanging flower pot in front of my front door, which, uh, went into spontaneous combustion. Uh, someone brought me outside and said, "I think your flower pot's on fire." And I said, "Well, that can't possibly be." And she said, "Touch the terracotta." And I did. And it was quite hot. And I sprayed water on there. There was no plant left, but just a few roots on top. When I sprayed water on it, they all flared up like burning embers. Okay. You think spontaneous combustion is only reserved for human beings? Um, the next day I turned the flower pot upside down, took all the soil out. There was no cigarette, no match, nothing there but potting soil that was quite charred and had a wonderful smoky but also sweet scent to it. Um, do you think I did not answer your question? Do you think that spontaneous combustion is only reserved for human beings? Of course not. I was a Girl Scout. All right. The flower pot has been hanging there for 20 years. So many people have been around for longer, yet spontaneously to us. Is there a connection between what was going on in my house that day and the fact that this happened?

**[Bashar]:** 
Yes. In the idea that in general, spontaneous combustion of any form is the result of the upsurge of an electromagnetic field that is not matched by the entity that combusts. So it was indicative of the idea that within that particular plant entity at that time, it was willing to do this in its own consciousness. There was to some degree certain elements, certain minerals, and sometimes those lacking, that did not allow there to be the appropriate balance to handle the upsurge and upsweep of electromagnetic radiation that was created in that local through the combination of all of your energy. It was willing to show you the difference between the energy you created and will create your world to be, and that which you would consider to be the past. Do you understand?

**[Audience Member 12 (Sabra)]:** 
Yes, I do. 

**[Bashar]:** 
That difference measured in rapid acceleration of molecular energy called combustion. So you have a beautiful, beautiful, loving plant that is willing, in a sense, to stay behind and not get caught up in the energy to show you what a difference you are becoming.

**[Audience Member 12 (Sabra)]:** 
Thank you very much. 

**[Bashar]:** 
Now water yourselves and grow. Thank you. Any more questions?

**[Audience Member 13 (Jessica)]:** 
Hello Torah and Bashar. This is Jessica. I have a question with regard to some lucid dreams that I've been experiencing since I think October 22nd or 23rd. 

**[Torah]:** 
Oh, you have to wait till the utopian time to share that. It's supposed to happen all at once. You know, you are ahead of schedule. All right. Well, we'll let you talk. Go.

**[Audience Member 13 (Jessica)]:** 
Just making a little point. Well, maybe this is just a news and dreams. Yes. Carry on. Prelude or a trailer. 

**[Bashar]:** 
No, we are there. Yes. Go ahead.

**[Audience Member 13 (Jessica)]:** 
Um, I've had a series of, well, it's a combination of lucid dreams, um, as well as at the same time a series of increased migraines, and they are coincident. I will wake up in the middle of the night with migraines and then it will shift as I meditate, it shifts into incredible lucid dreaming events where I do multi-dimensional travel and have had some phenomenal experiences, um, going to other dimensions, speaking to other entities. And, um, I was just interested. I do know that it is electromagnetic energy, and I'm becoming more aware that for me, I had to shift to, instead of increasing the intensity of receiving the electromagnetic energy, it was a matter of making it more gentle, almost making it a homeopathic dosage of the electromagnetic energy so my system could tolerate it. 

**[Bashar]:** 
How intuitive of you. 

**[Audience Member 13 (Jessica)]:** 
And, um, however, it has shifted to the extent where the migraines have faded and I haven't been able to recapture the lucidity as much, um, and that was an incredibly pleasurable experience.

**[Bashar]:** 
Capture it in your physical dream now. Transfer the lucidity into your physical reality now. Do you understand? 

**[Audience Member 13 (Jessica)]:** 
Um, yes and no. 

**[Bashar]:** 
All right, I'll polarize it for you. You experience this concept of lucidity within what you typically as a human call a dream. But the idea now is that as it appears to fade from one experience of dreaming, that is your signal to allow it to cross the threshold and become fully awake and lucid in your life dream. Because remember, you're dreaming right now. Yes. Therefore, become lucid in this dream. The idea is that you have been inspired to recognize what lucidity is. And Torah will have a few other things to say about this energy for you, but the idea really is to cross the threshold now that it appears to be fading from one experience, and know that that is your opportunity to allow yourself to wake up and be more lucid in physical life. Okay? Make some very conscious choices as you move through your physical day. Dream them, choose them, watch them manifest. Just as your dreams became more and more lucid, also look to the belief system that says, "Well, now that that phase is done, I'll never recapture that." Look to the belief system and the positive side that you did indeed integrate with your wisdom and intuition the migraine adjustment process, as it was an adjustment process. Consider taking that adjustment process back into hand, like the bull by the horns, to ask your higher self. We know you work with your higher self. Yes. Ask your higher self to then bring more of your lucid dreaming back once you have integrated your lucid waking dreaming experiences. 

**[Torah]:** 
Mhm. And also at that time when your higher self does begin to bring more of that lucidity back to you in the dream sleep state, upon your request, upon your creation, you may wish to imbibe certain substances that will assist in the, let us say, expansion of capacities of your pineal and pituitary glands as they align. Or there is a meditation on tape that you probably know of, the pineal-pituitary meditation, that you could do. Also, or in addition to, substances such as we would say selenium, for one. Perhaps Bashar has another to recommend that will be good and it will aid and assist in the increase of the silicon that is now building up in more and more of your bodies to allow you to become more receptive of higher frequencies. The selenium in that sense is good, and also in certain circumstances the addition of what you would call chromium, for chromium is good for allowing for catalytic change. 

**[Audience Member 13 (Jessica)]:** 
Oh, great. [Laughter] If you insist. Yeah. Um, and then I have one other question. Um, do you remember the infinity sign? 

**[Bashar]:** 
Yes, I do. Yes. 

**[Audience Member 13 (Jessica)]:** 
All right. Think of your lucid dreaming in this way. You have just done it in sleep state. Now you're going to be doing it in waking state. Then you're going to return to being able to do it in sleep state. 

**[Bashar]:** 
Yeah. Right. And it will become one flowing ribbon. Okay. Exactly. 

**[Audience Member 13 (Jessica)]:** 
So, okay. Now, I didn't actually find it remarkable until I saw the map that you have of the sky. But I woke up, uh, one morning about a month ago and the only word that was on my mind was Cassiopeia. And, um, I had that particular weekend been thinking about, um, another Greek goddess, but there was no particular reason. I certainly did not know the story of Cassiopeia. Pursued ex, you know, explored that because it's worthwhile for me to explore my dreams. But I was wondering if either of you have any comment on receiving this one-word message, Cassiopeia.

**[Torah]:** 
First, we feel it relates to your timing of the intersection of your imagination with the comet. When you choose to work with the reflection of the comet, the Cassiopeia location will somehow relate to that timing. What is the right timing for you? Will it be on the day of the equinox or will it be on the day of April 1st or will it be, etc., etc.? You can chart some of that according to the way the map strikes you for a start. Okay. You can also understand it as the archetypal mythological reflection. In investigating your mythological story of Cassiopeia, you will also find some analogies that will be reflective of your particular energy and how you can work with it in integrating that archetype within your actions and your behavior on a day-to-day reality. That would be another suggestion. 

**[Audience Member 13 (Jessica)]:** 
Okay, I will pursue that. 

**[Torah]:** 
And as you read through mythology, researching it in a book, yes, ask your higher self to sit on your shoulder like a little leprechaun. We had to get the leprechaun in there somehow tonight. Ask your higher self to sit on your shoulder like a leprechaun as you read the mythology. It will whisper into your ear what is significant and pertinent to you. 

**[Audience Member 13 (Jessica)]:** 
Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you.

---

### **Part 4: Closing Remarks**

**[Torah]:** 
Tick tock. The cometary clock is counting down. We will now find that there is but a brief amount of time remaining for this transmission. We will allow Torah to deliver the final message. So we will have our say at this time. The idea also to add would be, as many of your scientists view the concept of comets and meteors and asteroids in the two ideas of either seeds of planets that never formed or fragments of planets that broke apart. You can understand in this polarity the alpha and the omega, the beginning and the end, again the blending. You are the seeds of your own creation. And it is time to reintegrate all the fragments you have become. So use the cometary countdown clock to gather together and literally yourself, and to become the seed of a new you, that when planted in the fertile soil of your imagination and watered with your unconditional love, will grow and blossom with deep, deep roots in the ground, but with branches that reach to the stars. We thank you for allowing us to share these points of views and reflections with you in this auspicious timing. And we now give over to Torah for a final message for each and every one of you. Good day.

**[Torah]:** 
And we would say in addition to that beautifully stated reflection: Absolutely. So the comet is also a very wondrous time to remember the love. We said at the beginning, the wonder is there as you look at the comet. But also to remember the love, the love that you are, the love that you are. Not just the love that you experience or the love that you imagine or the love that you want to be or the love that you want to have, but the love that you are. Remember, as so many of you here know, that this is an extraordinary planet of love. It is a planet where oh so many in the multiverse look to be amazed by your depth of emotion, amazed by your depth of love. Allow yourself to remember the magic of your love. As you look at the light, the streaking light of that comet, realize that your love streaks in that way as well. Throughout all eternity, throughout all the universes, your love is shining. Your love is touching many. Let it touch you as well. Remember that you are love. You are love in your most essential essence, in your quintessential self. You can never lose it. You can only imagine you have lost it. You can never ever lose it. Enjoy riding the comet or surfing the tail of the comet as dolphins surf along the wakes of boats. Enjoy the ride, dear ones. Let it take you where you want to go. And remember, you are the love. And we depart this time as well with our most sublime gratitude to our wondrous Bashar and to each and every one of you for the love that you are. Much love and good evening.

**[Channel/Host]:** 
I felt like I was on the comet at the end there. Whoa, what a ride. Just imagine it, you guys. I mean, I just felt like I was, I don't know what he was talking about, but I felt like I was riding right on the comet there. Uh, I'm just getting a little message to say that, uh, it might be a highly recommendable thing for you guys to get together in groups, uh, to see the comet, to laugh with it, have a good time. Uh, I'm told that if you put your hand, your fist, out at arm's length and double the size of it as you see it, that that's how big it's going to look in the sky from stem to stern to the end. If you see, if you can imagine, that's pretty big. That's what they're hoping for. So, it, it, you might just have a lot of fun getting together with your best binoculars, your best buddies, uh, your best meditations, your best viewpoints, and have a wonderful, wonderful time.

