---
heading: "Chapter 7b"
title: "The Tao"
weight: 46
description: "The principal characteristic of the Tao is the cyclic nature of its ceaseless motion and change."
c: "firebrick"
icon: "Capra"
---


What, then, are the patterns of the cosmic Way which man has to recognize? 

The principal characteristic of the Tao is the cyclic nature of its ceaseless motion and change. ‘Returning
is the motion of the Tao,’ says Lao Tzu, and ‘Going far means
returning.‘6 The idea is that all developments in nature, those
in the physical world as well as those of human situations,
show cyclic patterns of coming and going, of expansion and
contraction.


This idea was no doubt deduced from the movements of
the sun and moon and from the change of the seasons, but it
was then also taken as a rule of life. The Chinese believe that
whenever a situation develops to its extreme, it is bound to
turn around and become its opposite. This basic belief has
in times of distress and
given them courage and perseverence
has made them cautious and modest in times of success.

It has led to the doctrine of the golden mean in which both Taoists and Confucianists believe. ‘The sage’, says Lao Tzu,
‘avoids excess, extravagance and indulgence.”

In the Chinese view, it is better to have too little than to have
too much, and better to leave things undone than to overdo
them, because although one may not get very far this way
one is certain to go in the right direction. Just as the man who
wants to go further and further East will end up in the West,

those who accumulate more and more money in order to
increase their wealth will end up being poor. Modern industrial
society which is continuously trying to increase the ‘standard
of living’ and thereby decreases the quality of life for all its
members is an eloquent illustration of this ancient Chinese
wisdom.

The idea of cyclic patterns in the motion of the Tao was
given a definite structure by the introduction of the polar
opposites yin and yang. They are the two poles which set the
limits for the cycles of change:
The yang having reached its climax retreats in favour of
the yin; the yin having reached its climax retreats in favour
of the yang.


In the Chinese view, all manifestations of the Tao are
generated by the dynamic interplay of these two polar forces.
This idea is very old and many generations worked on the
symbolism of the archetypal pair yin and yang until it became
the fundamental concept of Chinese thought. The original
meaning of the words yin and yang was that of the shady and
sunny sides of a mountain, a meaning which gives a good idea
of the relativity of the two concepts:
That which lets now the dark, now the light appear is
Tao.


From the very early times, the two archetypal poles of nature
were represented not only by bright and dark, but also by male
and female, firm and yielding, above and below. Yang, the
strong, male, creative power, was associated with Heaven,
whereas yin, the dark, receptive, female and maternal element,
was represented by the Earth. Heaven is above and full of
movement, the Earth-in the old geocentric view-is below
and resting, and thus yang came to symbolize movement and
yin rest. In the realm of thought, yin is the complex, female,
intuitive mind, yang the clear and rational male intellect. Yin
is the quiet, contemplative stillness of the sage, yang the strong,
creative action of the king.

The dynamic character of yin and yang is illustrated by the ancient Chinese symbol called rai-chi T’u, or ‘Diagram of the
Supreme Ultimate’:

This diagram is a symmetric arrangement of the dark yin and
the bright yang, but the symmetry is not static. It is a rotational
symmetry suggesting, very forcefully, a continuous cyclic
movement:

The yang returns cyclically to its beginning, the yin
attains its maximum and gives place to the yanglo
The two dots in the diagram symbolize the idea that each
time one of the two forces reaches its extreme, it contains
in itself already the seed of its opposite.

The pair of yin and yang is the grand leitmotiv that permeates Chinese culture and determines all features of the
traditional Chinese way of life. ‘Life’, says Chuang Tzu, ‘is the
blended harmony of the yin and yang.“’ As a nation of farmers,
the Chinese had always been familiar with the movements of
the sun and moon and with the change of the seasons. 

Seasonal changes and the resulting phenomena of growth and decay in
organic nature were thus seen by them as the clearest expres-


In the Changes there are images to reveal, there are
judgements appended in order to interpret, good fortune
and misfortune are determined in order to decide.13
The purpose of consulting the I Ching was thus not merely
to know the future, but rather to discover the disposition of
the present situation so that proper action could be taken.
This attitude lifted the I Ching above the level of an ordinary
book of soothsaying and made it a book of wisdom.


The use of the I Ching as a book of wisdom is, in fact, of far
greater importance than its use as an oracle. It has inspired
the leading minds of China throughout the ages, among them
Lao Tzu, who drew some of his profoundest aphorisms from
this source. Confucius studied it intensively and most of the
commentaries on the text which make up the later strata of
the book go back to his school. These commentaries, the
so-called Ten Wings, combine the structural interpretation of
the hexagrams with philosophical explanations.


