---
heading: Part 5 of The Manifestation Space
title: "Anxiety"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 2017-07-08
icon: Bashar
showdate: true
weight: 1148
tags: ['']
---




### **Question 10: Anxiety and People Pleasing**

**Participant:** Hi Bashar. Good day to you. I just... Probably a common problem but I have a problem with anxiety.

**Bashar:** You have a what? A challenge, an issue. Yeah. All right. What is your challenge with anxiety? It doesn't seem like you have much of a challenge with it if you have it.

**Participant:** Well, it's just been a lifelong thing.

**Bashar:** You mean having the anxiety is the challenge?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** You don't have a challenge with having anxiety. Obviously, you've perfected having anxiety.

**Participant:** Yeah, I did. I've got it down perfect. I do. I have it perfect.

**Bashar:** So, can you give us a definition of what anxiety is and then we can give you our definition of what anxiety is and maybe that will help clarify the situation a little bit for you.

**Participant:** It's just... I know it's actually misplaced excitement, but what does that mean when you say misplaced? Well, it's... I've heard you say it's excitement with judgment placed on it. It's filtering through negative beliefs. Yeah. And that turns the vibration into something that you experience as anxiety instead of excitement.

**Bashar:** Yes. Yeah. So if you know that, then what have you done to get in touch with the negative beliefs that you're filtering your energy through so that it comes out as anxiety instead of excitement? What are the negative beliefs you've discovered?

**Participant:** That's my... That's kind of a block for me.

**Bashar:** That's a negative belief. So you've just discovered one. Congratulations. Thank you. You believe you have a block.

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** That's not true. It's just that you believe it is. So, you've just discovered a negative belief. Okay. You understand?

**Participant:** Yes. Phew. That was easy.

**Bashar:** Yeah. So, because you believe you have a block, that tells you that the negative belief is getting you to buy into the idea that you have a block. So, you won't look at the belief. Because if you did, it would be easy to let it go.

**Participant:** Yeah, it's tricking me.

**Bashar:** Yeah, because it is easy to let it go. The negative belief knows that if you actually saw the belief for what it was, it would be easy to let it go. So, one of the tricks it has to use is making it seem difficult to even see it. Therefore, you believe you have a block, right? But that's the trick. You don't have a block. You have to see through that as a trick. Okay. And one of the things that... Part of the anxiety is I cough.

**Bashar:** And is that also... Well, it's one of the symptoms that you will have physiologically as you embed the vibration of the anxiety within your physical system. Of course you will have physical symptoms. Okay. But when you let go of the idea of the negative beliefs and no longer filter your energy through them, then the anxiety will change and the physical symptoms will change. Okay. Yes. So what are you anxious about when you have anxiety?

**Participant:** Well, it's a lot of people pleasing. A lot of people-pleasing type things, you know, like...

**Bashar:** And why do you need to please people?

**Participant:** I don't. But I...

**Bashar:** Why do you? Because obviously if you do, you believe you do need to do it. It's a belief. But why? What do you think you get out of pleasing people? Because you wouldn't be doing it if you didn't think you got something out of it. So, what do you think you're getting out of people pleasing?

**Participant:** I don't like people pleasing, but I'm doing...

**Bashar:** What do you think you're getting out of it or you wouldn't be doing it? It doesn't matter whether you like it or not. If you're doing it, you believe you're getting something out of it. What do you believe is the advantage to people pleasing?

**Participant:** Less fear.

**Bashar:** Less fear of what?

**Participant:** Being judged.

**Bashar:** Being judged. Oo, being judged. Are all the people that you're pleasing walking around wearing judges' robes and carrying gavels?

**Participant:** Probably. Bang bang. I judge you and sentence you to eternal damnation for being who you are. You worthless, pointless person.

**Bashar:** Okay. It would be the very, very base thing which I'm sure is common: a self-worth issue. Yeah. Right. And so why are you arguing with creation about your worth? There's nothing you can do about that. You are worthy by the fact of your existence. You will never win that argument. So why are you spending time spending energy arguing with creation about something that can never change, which is your worth?

**Participant:** You're right. I know that. That's why I said it.

**Bashar:** So the question is why are you spending time doing that? Aren't you tired of it?

**Participant:** That's exactly what I was going to... I'm tired of it.

**Bashar:** Yes. Are you tired enough to stop?

**Participant:** Well, that's why I'm actually not scared to ask you because I'm... This is terrifying for me to be up here, but to ask you... Yes. To actually come up here and ask you means... Yeah. I'm tired.

**Bashar:** Exactly. Yeah. Well, then stop. Okay. Because it's not serving you. And if you showed yourself that you were capable of coming up here and speaking about this to us, then you have proven to yourself that you can just let it go.

**Participant:** It's exhausting.

**Bashar:** It is. It is exhausting. Let it go. Relax. Yeah. You're worth it. Take a vacation. Take a break.

**Participant:** Thank you. Yes. Thank you. You can take a break from this for the rest of your life.

**Bashar:** Thank you. That's nice. Thank you. Yes. Does this help a lot?

**Participant:** All right. Could I ask you one more thing? Yes. Just this is totally different. We'll see if that's true. I've lately... Child and animal abuse. It bothers me quite a bit and I know you attract stuff when you think, but I'm wondering: does the universe protect animals and children? Well, and adults as well. But again, the idea is: what are you going to do about it?

**Participant:** I just... It's hard for me to think about it.

**Bashar:** What are you going to do about it?

**Participant:** Nothing, I guess.

**Bashar:** Well, then... But I don't want other beings to suffer. And then what are you going to do about it? Nothing. Think about it. And will that help them stop suffering?

**Participant:** No.

**Bashar:** Then what are you going to do about it if it bothers you so much?

**Participant:** It's hard to ignore.

**Bashar:** But you are ignoring it by saying I'm going to do nothing about it.

**Participant:** Well, there's nothing I can do.

**Bashar:** I beg your pardon. I mean, at... I beg your pardon. What can I do? What can I do? What can you do? What can you do to help?

**Participant:** Send positive thoughts.

**Bashar:** What can you physically do to help?

**Participant:** Well, if I was right there, I would stop it.

**Bashar:** How? What do you mean? How? How would you do it? How would you stop it?

**Participant:** Well, I would stop somebody from hurting somebody else.

**Bashar:** Then why aren't you there? Why aren't you there?

**Participant:** I can't be everywhere.

**Bashar:** I didn't say you had to be everywhere, but you can be somewhere, can't you? Yeah, you can start with one, can't you? Are you willing to attract yourself to be where you need to be to do something about that if you see it happening?

**Participant:** Once I can handle it emotionally, yeah.

**Bashar:** Well, how long will that take?

**Participant:** I don't know.

**Bashar:** Well, then you'll do nothing until then. But does the universe have any sort of interference to help? You are the universe, my dear. Okay. And it is through you that the universe helps. Okay. So your decision: be the universe that helps or be the universe that doesn't.

**Participant:** But I don't understand if I have to do this physically or mentally.

**Bashar:** Yes, you have to do it physically. Okay? Because you are experiencing a physical reality. Doing it mentally isn't sufficient as an expression in physical reality. Okay. Yes. Yeah. Okay. You do other things physically. You came to this location today physically or did you just think about it?

**Participant:** No, I came.

**Bashar:** Why? Why didn't you just think about it?

**Participant:** Because I want to come.

**Bashar:** Exactly. Right. So when you want to go there, you'll go. Okay. Yes. Yep. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Nania.

**Bashar:** Hello, Tadada. Nania. Yes. Are you approaching your nutrition time? You are? Yes. Yes. Then would you all like to take a nutrition break?

**Audience:** Yes.

**Bashar:** All right. Then we will resume this transmission after your break. Enjoy. [Applause] [Music]

---

### **Post-Break: Manifestation Space, Parallax, and Lucid Dreaming**

**Bashar:** To say let us continue the transmission with the continuation of your dialogues if you wish. [Applause]

**Participant:** Hi Bashar and you good day. Speaking into the mic. So it's an honor to be here. I've learned a lot about or a lot from you about how to be more of my true self in the past seven months or so and it's been really... Thank you for applying the information. Yeah. A few questions. Today's topic of the manifestation space: is this real? So previously I've heard you talk about a parallax between like the mind, the heart, the solar plexus. Yes. That kind of makes this experience real? Yes, I'm wondering how the manifestation space relates to that.

**Bashar:** Well, again, the idea is that it still has to go through a belief system in order for the personality to be able to function in having an experience that you would consider to be physical. So, the manifestation space, as we said, can also be called the prime belief, the first belief. And the first belief is "this is real." So that's what sets up your ability to continue to use the parallax to reinforce the idea of the reality of the reality. Does that make sense?

**Participant:** So the parallax is like the kind of physical aspect of just creating that experience of "is this real" coming from that core belief.

**Bashar:** Yes. It sort of helps continue the momentum of the idea that what you're experiencing is real. It gives it, shall we say, emotional depth. You follow me? Yeah. It makes it more dimensional. Okay? Because the idea that "this is real" has to be defined in a certain way. The idea of the word "real" has to mean a certain thing. And therefore, the parallax gives it the emotional depth that to you feels like reality. Okay? Thank you. It makes you invested in it, in other words. Cool. Make sense?

**Participant:** Yep. All right. Can you explain what your experience is interfacing with the template reality? Like how you access it and like a description of what your experience is like when you do that?

**Bashar:** Our world and our experience of our reality is very different than what many people on your planet might think. Many of you might assume that we're just a bunch of aliens walking around on the surface of a planet, but in fact, for us, it's literally like moving through a waking dream. We actually experience multi-dimensionality all around us all the time. We can perceive the nature and structure of existence in a variety of ways. The idea is that therefore our reality experience is always, shall we say, overlaid with a bunch of different kinds of expressions or symbols or energy patterns and so on and so forth that represent our ability at any given moment to switch our focus into those other expressions of reality. So, it's sort of like swimming through a symbolic soup that allows us to navigate and experience solidity where we wish and dissolve it where we wish constantly as we move through our reality. Does that make sense?

**Participant:** Yes, sir. It's like living a waking dream. So, if I want to experience more of that, the answer is follow my highest excitement.

**Bashar:** You have the instruction manual. Okay? Because again, when you raise your vibration by following the instruction manual and you're more aligned with your true frequency, then you're becoming more of a match to the frequency at which your reality is created. Therefore, in a sense, by matching that frequency, you have more efficacy at altering it consciously. Does that make sense? It's sort of like the idea of your martial arts where if you have somebody coming at you, the easiest way to divert their direction is to at least momentarily match their momentum so that you're not moving relative to one another. Then it's easy to move them in a different direction because you're not overcoming a force. Does that make sense?

**Participant:** Yeah. Is that the... Because in a lot of your videos I've heard 200,000 kHz being some kind of significant number as far as the frequency that we are looking to achieve. 200 kHz. 200 kHz. Sorry. Is that the frequency that you're saying reality kind of shifts at or...

**Bashar:** Well, it shifts into non-physical reality completely at 333,000 cycles per second. Okay. So, what's the significance of 200 kHz? You're operating in a way that experiences reality much more flexibly. Okay. It's starting, in a sense, to break down into the illusion, but it still has enough solidity. It still has enough of "this is real" in order for you to still experience it as a physical reality, but it becomes very flexible, very magical. Mhm. Okay, cool. Very fluid.

**Participant:** And next question is, what is it about lucid dreaming that will help become lucid in the physical dream?

**Bashar:** Well, when you become lucid in the dream state, you can have more understanding that physical reality is just another form of dream and therefore you can see it for what it is from that perspective. It's kind of like climbing up to a higher level, looking down at something and going, "Oh, I see how it's all laid out here. That makes more sense." Lucidity in the dream state is more natural for you and therefore it's more representative of your natural state and therefore you can really see that you're creating the physical reality and become more lucid in it because you can see it for what it is, an illusion, right? So, it's like kind of like in the dream state, you're... If you're able to become lucid in that state, then you're becoming lucid in a way that's more aligned with your true self or your higher. Yes. I mean, that's one way. Again, following the instruction manual is another way. You don't necessarily have to do it through lucid dreaming, but that's a technique that can work for some people. It's like anything, a permission slip.

**Participant:** Great. Make sense?

**Bashar:** Yep. Are there any specific hints or clues from my guides or higher self about that would help me take the next step on my path?

**Participant:** What does your path look like? I am. So my highest excitement is to teach what you teach to as many people as I can. Whoever really I'm meant to teach it to, to share the idea of the principle of how reality is structured with others.

**Bashar:** Yeah, I agree. And you will use your imagination to figure out how to do that in your own style.

**Participant:** Yes. Yes, I'm doing that.

**Bashar:** Okay. Well, then the next step would be to keep doing it, wouldn't it?

**Participant:** Okay. Just thought I'd ask.

**Bashar:** Oh, all right. Just thought I'd answer. Thank you. Here's an interesting question. So, my partner and I are planning to have kids in the future and we've recently started communicating with them while they're still in spirit. Yes. And I was wondering if you'd be able to relay any messages from either one of them.

**Bashar:** Why don't you get the messages yourself?

**Participant:** We can. I just was wondering if you might have anything interesting to say or if they would like to... Threw you. One moment. Are you attracted to or planning any part of your path to intersect what you would call a tropical climate?

**Participant:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Then the children are saying, "Oh, goody." All right. Awesome. Thank you very much. Let's see here. All right. One question from my partner. After following high excitement, so we're all learning how to step into our ability to do that more. Yes. What's after that for us to learn as humans?

**Bashar:** As humans or as... Well, you will let go of all of the negative beliefs that don't serve you and then you will start letting go of anything else that's not relevant for you. You will start streamlining yourself further and further and further. And again, as we have said, basically you will start exemplifying the traits that will be representative of earth becoming what we call the sixth hybrid race. Mhm. You will start living more like we do. Thank you. And last question is another last question. Oh, sorry. If I want to or if you... What want if I choose to interact with you more directly myself, I guess I can just do that.

**Bashar:** Understand again that we are being used by all of you as a template and a mask to have communication with your own higher selves. So even though you might be walking down the street and going "what would Bashar say" and it opens up a dialogue, most likely you're going to be talking to your higher self but using us as a flavor to make it seem like you're talking to someone else if that makes it easier for your belief system.
