---
heading: Part 2 of The Money Workshop
title: "The Marriage Ceremony"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1998-01-30
icon: Bashar
weight: 234
showdate: true
---



Let's begin the ceremony.

Dearly beloved, we are gathered here today in the sight of these witnesses and surrounded by our loved ones so that you and the coins may be joined together in holy wedlock. And understand, this is sacred. This is sacred. This is sacred. Are there any objections to this? Speak now or forever hold your peace.

Do you take this coin to be your lifelong partner, your lifelong friend, your lifelong lover, to reflect to you in sickness and in health, for richer and for poorer, to reflect to you that you are worthy of infinite and unconditional abundance and love? To reflect to you that you are not separate from life? To reflect to you that creation holds nothing back from you? To reflect to you that this relationship to this coin is the relationship truly of your worth, of your expression of creativity, of your expression of willingness to be who you are? Do you take this coin to be your unconditionally loving and loved partner forever and ever?

Do you, little coin, take this human being to be the reflection of all that you represent in terms of your ability, in terms of your potential, in terms of your expression of creativity and abundance? Are you willing to allow this being that is your lifelong, unconditionally loving and loved partner to be the conduit and the channel to represent the ideal of what you are? To represent the ideal of ultimate ability and worth? Do you, little coin?

I now pronounce you minted. Now pay attention. You may kiss the coin if you wish.


### The Honeymoon (Integration)

Usually, before the honeymoon—and take this to heart in all forms of the meaning of the word—there is the reception. This, in its own way now, and I do not mean to be sacrilegious to anyone, this is in this moment a sacrament. It is sacred, sacred, sacred. Take it in, receive it. It is your reception. But receive it in your heart.

See, feel, imagine the coin moving into your heart, through the skin of your chest, through the muscles of your chest. Actually feel it as you hold it up against you. Feel it, feel it, feel it going, going into your heart. Feel it floating in the blood in your heart. With every beat, feel it. And with every beat, understand that beat is automatic. It's autonomic. You don't have to think about it. You don't have to do anything to force it. It is abundance. Abundance, abundance, abundance. Abundance, abundance, abundance, abundance. No matter how fast, no matter how slow, it is abundance. Abundance, abundance. I love you, abundance.

Now, as you physically take the coin away, understand that that coin, its essence and its connection to all money, is firmly, thoroughly, permanently imprinted into your heart's cellular intelligence. You have just shown your heart what you mean by money. How you feel about loving yourself enough to be abundant. You have just talked to your heart and allowed your heart to understand how to cooperate and participate in conjunction with your brain, your spirit, your body, mind, soul, the cellular memory of all your organs, that you are literally wreaking of abundance. You breathe it in, you breathe it, you sweat it, you live it, you drink it, you eat it. Every single thing is a representation of abundance. You are immersed in a sea of it. You are drowning in it, but in a good way, because you can breathe it. You can breathe that rich, golden liquid.

You are married. You are married. You are married, really, truly married to this coin till death do you part. And so it is. Now let's begin the honeymoon! All right! Yahoo! Oh, let's go shopping! All right, I suppose for many of you that is a heightened sexual experience, but well put, well put.

Now, a honeymoon is exactly where you want to be, what state you want to remain in for the rest of your life. And you can, you can, because now you are married to the very essence and concept of money. And now the life you make together is up to you as to how you will experience this. And again, please remember, on the surface, this sounds like nice words, oh, nice ideas, nice stories. These stories now go deep, very deep into your consciousness. Because why? Because no longer is just your head listening; your heart is paying attention. And believe me, when your heart pays attention, look out. That's why you say you take it to heart. You really make it your own when your heart pays attention and lets it in.

You are now beginning to make it your own. This is going to sink in. Every day you're going to remember everything that's been talked about in this exchange, and you're going to start seeing inspirations. You're going to start feeling possibilities. You're going to start being more excited about acting and opportunities and creating opportunities. You're going to start seeing everything as an opportunity. You're going to start getting excited about more things.

And if there should be a moment in the honeymoon where you feel you want to be a little more withdrawn, want to be alone, maybe feel a little bit sad, it's all right. Because all emotions, all emotions will be part of your relationship and your experience with money. And when you learn that your heart can handle it, that it's okay to feel these things, you will learn how to take those emotions and, in feeling them and accepting them and acknowledging them, they will become exchangeable commodities. They will turn into valued items that you will be able to use, learn from, glean things from that will only add to the momentum of your honeymoon, your perpetual honeymoon with money. Honey-so, perhaps this is more of a money-moon. [Laughter] You are now on a perpetual money moon.

You are now on a perpetual money moon. Now understand that generally, when you choose to go on a honeymoon, you choose to travel to exotic places maybe, or just relax in the hammock in the backyard, whatever is a honeymoon to you. But that's the point here: allow yourself to understand very importantly that abundance will come to you at the level that is truly abundant for you. That it will come in your way. You don't have to be abundant like someone else in order to be abundant.

And again, remember, you can, you can, you can have as much money as you really want. You really can. And when you stay in this vibrational state of the money moon, that will be the vibrational frequency in which that abundance most easily can come in. The same way that when you are in a state of being on a honeymoon, you can easily call up room service, you can easily go here, go there, and many things are simply provided for you.

Many times you have heard it said, and it is true, that people when they are rich don't always have to spend their money. People when they are rich find themselves suddenly perplexed by the number of people wanting to come up and give them things. You will generate an aura of abundance that will allow people to want to increase that abundance for you. Again, please don't understand this as, "Oh yes, I'm going to make everyone my money slave. Oh yes, they're going to bow to me because I'm so great, I'm the big money mule, and I am going to get whatever I want wherever I walk in, and I can be careless and rude and I don't care, they're always going to bow down to me." It's not what I'm talking about, and you know it, and you know it, so I don't have to say it, but too late.

But you will find, as a general principle again, that when you allow yourself to learn to do more with less, one of the side effects of then having to do less to get more will be this: your presence, vibrating in love with abundance, will trigger a love-abundance reaction in others who also want to feel that way. And one of the ways they will then express that is by giving you things you could easily buy, but they will give them to you. And when that happens, because it will, because it will, then your response needs be the essence of grace, the essence of gratitude, the essence of humility. Go back into the understanding of doing more with less, knowing you don't need the more to do what you need to do, and in knowing that, thus creating the ability to doing less to get more. And in that state of gratitude and grace, somehow, someway, return the gesture and give to someone else. Allow yourself to increase someone else's abundance.

It is abundance. It is always, always, no matter in what form it's expressed, it is always about being of service. When you fall into your excitement and stay in your honeymoon, you are in love, and you want to be. Your heart wants to be in love with the world. Express that where you feel it is appropriate. I'm not saying you have to lose your head. You don't have to be unbalanced about this idea. But when you know, when your heart talks to you and you can hear it, you can feel it, then be of service. And believe me, one of the most fundamental principles again—and you have heard it, but you'll hear it again—is when you enrich others, you will be enriched. You will be enriched. You will be enriched.

And now that you have begun to change your relationship to money, then part of your enrichment flow will contain lots more money as well as other forms of enrichment and other forms of abundance. Remember, you are rich. The universe is abundant. You are abundant. What you're simply learning here again is to change your relationship to allow the abundance that is already available to you to fall like pennies from heaven, to shower you with riches. To let go of the conflicting conundrums of paradoxical definitions that don't work for you, that tear you apart. To unravel them, let them go. To see clearly that you are created, that you are a loving person, that you are a loved person, that you are a rich person. And that this can translate in physical terms and in monetary terms. There is no reason why it can't, and there is no reason why you can't, unless you give yourself a reason not to.

It is in your hands. It is in your control. It is all around you. Opportunities are screaming at you all the time. But your state and disconnection from your heart creates a deaf ear to the ringing opportunities that you are presented with constantly, incessantly. There is no vacuum in creation. There is not a second that goes by when there isn't a sparkling, ringing opportunity for you to become, as you say, stinking filthy rich. You can leave out the stinking part if you want, though some people might like the smell of money that will surround your aura and be your aura when you really, really, really let it in.


## Q&A Session

**Participant 1:** in the Bible it actually doesn't say, "Money is the root of all evil." It says, "The love of money is..."

**Bashar:** Yes but I wasn't actually quoting your Bible. I was simply quoting the phrase that most of the people in your culture use. Right? The idea, however, expressed in your biblical literature is what we are talking about when we talk about the idea of becoming too involved in the materiality aspect. In other words, the "Love of Money" in the sense that you feel that your worth is determined by the money, instead of the money being determined by your worth.


**Participant 2:** You with children who are at risk who are in jail because they've stolen cars or drugs, and I... I was talking with one young man today who's facing 30 years, uh, using a gun, and it... it breaks my heart because I want to try to give him some solid advice and literate, and they don't have skills.

**Bashar:** Do you remember what we said? You are created with everything you need as who you are to generate some beginning momentum in the direction of the expression of who you are and the reflection of abundance that comes with it. You must fully understand and take to heart what we mean when we say that, and how literally we mean that, before you will be able to pass that on to him or anyone like him. But that's what you need to get him to understand: is, as he is, get out of this "I don't have the skills." You do have the skills to be who you are. You have the skills. You don't need to be taught anything to start this rolling. Because Creation, in its Infinite Wisdom, knew it was setting you down on a planet with nothing but the skin on your back and knew that was enough. And that the rest is left up to you as to how to express your ability to take that—the skill of being you—and turn it into any other expression of abundance you want to, to mutate it, to transform it in any way you want. But what you have to begin with, and what you need to understand and take to heart, is that if you are simply just dropped on the planet naked, you've got all the skills you need to be you, and thus to act on the opportunities that are specifically to your heart and your excitement and your passion. And by acting on them and using your imagination and your inspiration, you will be able to dig yourself out of what may seem to be the most impenetrable, deepest, blackest hole, if you will go back to the basic of understanding that you can, you can, you can, you can with almost nothing. When you learn that, you will know how to transfer that to him. 


**Participant 3:** Hi Bashar. Tell you a good day. I'm really enjoying the synchronicity of, uh, my past week and what's happened here this evening. Um, um... make it one statement or one question. Okay, I will. It's... I don't know if it's mathematical or relationship, but I walked to my horse up the street and, um, help somebody else's horses, and I later, a couple days later, I drove past and he was there, and I remembered what you said about stretching at this time. Yes. So I parked my car and I went over to talk to Herb, and I... I told him about that he had to fix the boards, okay, and I asked if I could move my horse under the corner of his property beginning in June. And what ended up happening was he showed me the house and offered it to me for rent. All right. Um, and I was so interested in him, I guess I enjoy seeing potential. I said, "Herb, what are you into?" And he said, "Well, I'm taking a class." And I said, "And what?" And he said, "Well, it's called Excel-ni." So what is my relationship to him at this point? Because there's no way I can answer that. Every time I move, I ne... I have... I never have the money. I have to create it, and that's, you know, that's part of... that's what this interaction is all about.

**Bashar:** But in you having the ability to recognize that synchronicity is ever present for you, you can take that to heart and understand that if you apply everything that we have talked about in the way that we have talked about it, you will understand very clearly what is the next thing you need to do. And that's it.


**Bashar:** Keep this simple, everyone. It really doesn't need to be complicated. That's the beauty of it. And I'm not saying that about you, I'm just talking about that in general.


**Participant 4:** Bash? Yes. Good day. Hello. I need to ask you about tithing. Tithing? Yeah. Mhm. I do tithe. I do tithe. But is that a necessary requirement of us on the planet to do that in order to create more abundance?

**Bashar:** It is not necessary to tithe specifically in the format that you are referring to. But the idea is that, yes, it is necessary in a sense to give and support. Do you follow?

**Participant 4:** Yes, I do.

**Bashar:** It is necessary to help others become abundant. It is necessary to serve. Whether that actually takes the literal form of tithing or not is not the issue. It can, but it doesn't have to. There are many ways, in a sense, to be of service. There are many different kinds of tithing. You follow?

**Participant 4:** Yes, I do. And I do do services.

**Bashar:** Well, but I do tithe to a spiritual organization. It's completely up to you.


**Participant 5:** I have this feeling that rather than sitting on money, which kind of means like fear of using it, that by sharing it and keeping it moving around and giving gifts and doing the things, you know, in some senses more a positive...

**Bashar:** Some senses, yes. At the same time, this is where many of you get into what you call thorny brambles. Because the idea is that sometimes many of you may be doing that not really as a mechanism for flowing money, but as a reaction to a feeling of lack. And then you get yourself into trouble.

**Participant 5:** How can we tell the difference?

**Bashar:** Well, that's a very good question. How honest can you be about your self-evaluation?

**Participant 5:** Well, like the other day, um, I had been thinking, uh, there was an SPCA kind of, uh, drive, and I wanted to contribute some money. And I thought, well, you know, I like having money in the savings, but on the other hand, it means a lot to me to share with the people who are helping these creatures. So it just felt like the right thing to do.

**Bashar:** All right. Uh, another day I did what you shared allow you to feel that you had the ability to both share and remain abundant, and in sharing, increase their abundance and your abundance simultaneously. Felt, or did there feel to be at any moment any kind of an awkward imbalance?

**Participant 5:** I was very comfortable with it.

**Bashar:** Oh, right. Then perhaps in that measure, and in that occasion, and to that degree, that might be in balance for you. That's what you have to determine: is this in balance? Sometimes, yes, you will find that you can make a grand gesture with absolute conviction and faith that it will be replaced many times over, and sometimes that will occur. But understand that what we are talking about here today are the underlying fundamental dynamics to begin to rattle loose within you all the different definitions, all the different belief systems within you that would go hand in hand either with allowing that to work for you or with creating the apparency of self-sabotage. That's what these exercises are all about: is to help put you in touch with which one is going on in your behavior, and which one thus is an explanation for your actions and your desire to do a certain thing relative to the taking in of or giving out of money. Make sense?

**Participant 5:** Um, well, not totally. May I tell you what my thinking was and... and your response to that? Well, what I was thinking is I prefer to live from my higher part, um, the part of me who, uh, shares and is not concerned about money because I know it's always there. It always has been there. And before that money was in the bank, I was worried about where it was coming from, and that money came. So it's going to keep coming. I just thought, I'm just going to, uh, just enjoy it and keep doing whatever I'm doing and not be concerned about it all.

**Bashar:** All right. Then thank you. Okay. Then you will arrive in your own good time at any such places as might crop up—I'm not saying they will—as might crop up that will show you whether or not you are continuing in balance. And again, of course, remember one of the fundamental ideas for why this seminar was requested and created was to also put you in touch with circumstances and situations that would allow you to actually expand and increase your monetary income so much, much, much that you wouldn't even have to stop and think about whether or not you could or could not help someone like that. I... you much better. That's much more pleasant to just flow and, and, uh, just keep flowing.



**Participant 6:** I just wanted to ask if there was any significance to the little co... those are a creative creation that acts as a synchronous mirror so that each and every one of you has the opportunity to instill meaning into it because it is fundamentally neutral. You follow me? You can instill your own value in it as a monetary exercise. You can allow yourself to apply to the idea of any single coin—or what might be a placeholder for a coin—a value as low or as high as you prefer it to have. So that you understand that and get used to the idea that a single coin could actually buy you anything you want instead of having to use many such coins to do so. That is the point of that blank coin: to function as an exercise of non-denominational value so that you can instill the denomination you prefer to have and can change that denomination anytime you wish. So that you gain the exercise of flexibility with regard to relative value and your ability to use less to get more.


**Participant 7:** I have difficulty in asking for money. Yes, for service or goods. 

All right. This has been, uh, a lifelong... um, however, through the things that you've shared today, you've really helped me through this. And I was wondering at this point, is there anything more you may want to share?

**Bashar:** One of the things that you have now brought up synchronistically will be an exercise. To some degree, we have talked about it. Is a very valuable exercise, and I would highly recommend that you add it to all of the other processes and ideas that you take away with you from this particular seminar. And that is to literally take some time to write out all your beliefs about money, positive and negative. To write them down: "I have difficulty doing this," "I have difficulty doing that," "I'm afraid to do this," "Money is this to me," "Money is that to me," "If I have this much money, I feel this way," "If I have this little money, I feel that way," "If someone were to give me this money..." "If I were to win this money, how would I feel?" "What I deserve it?" Write all your beliefs about money down on paper so you can see them outside of your head. That is a very powerful exercise to help you learn to get in touch with what beliefs and relationships you have had and help you form healthier relationships in the future. 

**Bashar:** On the other side of the coin, allow yourself the opportunity in this exercise to also know that all of these things you will write down, they are really valueless in and of themselves. They are empty. They are props. They are smoke. They are mirrors. They are weightless. They are massless. They have no power. They have no substance. All these ideas that seem so powerful are only powerful because they are borrowing your power to come alive. Do you follow? When you thus look at them on the paper, you will understand that they actually aren't worth the paper that they're printed on. Much like your money. Pun intended.

To coin a phrase, allow yourself the opportunity to understand that it is you. It is you. It is you that gives value to money. It is you that gives value to beliefs and ideas. It is you that determines what the coin of the realm shall be. When you are trafficking in the exchange of beliefs, when you are on the belief stock market, put your stock in what you prefer and do not be swayed by the motion of the market that has nothing to do with you. You set the par value for your stock in your reality, in your value, in your worth. You set it. You own stock in yourself. You own all of it, 100% of it. You can't give any away. It is not, in that sense, distributable. So understand that what you say it means, what worth and value you give to these beliefs, is where they get their power from. And the same goes with the ideas and your relationships to money. It takes its power from you in order to be spendable. You follow? Then bank on that, and you will earn a lot of interest. Interest in yourself. You understand? Never-ending doubling, tripling, quadrupling, quintupling interest in yourself over and over and over again, many times over.

Each and every one of you, allow yourself to understand that this is all it takes. This is all there is. Money is not a mystery. It does not have to seem alien to you, even though it might be foreign currency. The exchange rate is completely predicated on your willingness to rate yourself and exchange old ideas for new ideas and empower those instead of what has been given to you, instead of what you have inherited. You will now set the mark, set the value, set the stage. You are your own business. You will grow as such. Make your business... business. The Business of Being Yourself. Make your business the business of serving others and help them, help them become rich. And I guarantee you 100%, without any reservation, when you help make others rich, you will become rich. Under all the things we have said, use them all and incorporate them all, and don't leave out the heart, or it'll pout.

## Post-Seminar Interactions

She works in a bank. I love it. Right. And I have some stuff touching money all the time. Well, now love it, but I want to multiply. 

Just imagine that the bank is your bank. Yeah, this B belongs to me. Is your business? Yeah. When you my house, you may just win enough money to open a bank. 

Didn't our lottery ticket buy a lottery thought I had? Maybe I didn't. I got... you got it. So got married now with the money. What a good marriage. Marriage. Money. That was so fun.


