---
heading: Part 1
title: "Surrender to Peace"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1998-04-03
icon: Bashar
weight: 247
tags: ['surrender']
showdate: true
---


**Bashar:** The joyful manifestation of your reality in a joyful way needs the notion of surrender. 

We do not mean that you are giving up your validity. 

Surrender is really the opening up in total vulnerability to the understanding that you are created, to use your own words, in the image of the infinite. 

And in that you were created as a reflection of unlimited possibilities, then to surrender your limited personality structure, to let go of your worries, your thoughts, your ideas of what you think you should be, and to simply become that which you are, that which you were created to be, will allow physical reality to reflect back to you because it is a mirror the unlimited possibilities that you are. 

Since you are made in the image of the infinite, which is of course another way of saying unlimited possibility, we have been talking about many forms and ideas of surrender. And this day of your time we would like to talk about the idea of surrendering to peace. There have been for countless generations upon your planet—well, yes, you can count them, but we know you like that phrase; countless generations means long time, long time on your planet—the idea of warfare. And now you have recently experienced the idea of the willingness of factions that have been warring for quite some time to have talks, what you call peace talks. And you have had peace talks at various times in your history. But the idea has always been, in a sense more often than not, that one side shall surrender something to the other side, give up something in a way that they do not really prefer to, in a way that they view or label as a loss, as a diminishment of what they consider their power to be. 

But if you can begin to communicate to your people that the act of surrendering is not so much the act of surrendering to each other—nation to nation, person to person—but surrendering to peace itself, then both can understand that their wishes can be fulfilled, their fundamental desires can be manifested. Because when an individual or a group, a nation, surrenders to the idea of peace, then what they are saying is that they are expressing a willingness to explore the idea that there is enough for everyone, which there is; that anyone can live their dream, which they can; and that to do so will by definition not conflict with anyone else's truth, anyone else's dream, anyone else's natural expression of creativity. 

The only conflicts that are created are when individual and nation are trying to be something they are really not. When they manufacture for themselves an identity in a sense that is false, that is made up, that is not representative of their truth, then you have conflict. Because that which you are not will always by definition bring conflict with it, and resistance, and struggle, and strife, and pain. But that which you were created to be, that which you naturally are, fits automatically with everything else that naturally is. Because the universe is a whole idea, it is one thing. Therefore, all the pieces in their natural form by definition must fit. So when you surrender to peace, you are surrendering to be your natural self, and surrendering to the idea and the understanding and the wisdom that everything that allows itself to be natural will automatically find a way to fit, to blend, to harmonize with everything else that also is willing to be natural. And that in that act there will be enough for everyone, and everyone will be allowed to be who they wish to be, and the holistic system will be seen to support all of its parts, and all the parts will be seen to support the holistic system by definition automatically. 

Getting this notion, this idea, this definition of surrender across to the nations is one of the great ideas that you can do, one of the great tasks and actions that you can perform and teach: not surrender to each other in the sense of loss, but surrender to peace in the sense of gain for all.

### Special Message: Healing and Perspective for an Injured Screenwriter
**Bashar:** Now having said that, before we continue with the idea of our regular form of interaction and sharing, we would like to deliver some information of benefit to one of your number, one of your members who has created for themselves what you would call a severe injury. And thus then we will know that this information on your tape will be delivered to this individual so that they can ponder and absorb this information and see if it can be of benefit to them in their healing. 

And so this individual for whom this information is created, and at whom this information is directed, can begin to understand these following concepts and to ponder them in her own good time. Number one: this person can recognize and realize that the injury brought up anger, frustration, self-recrimination, judgment. And the fact that it did so—not that we are invalidating it, not that we are judging even her judgment, but the fact that it did so—will let the individual know that these energies still exist within her personality makeup, that she may not really have let go of as much as she thought. For then, when put to the test by herself, when put under stress by herself, when bringing herself into this stressful health situation, she then automatically and instantaneously saw and spontaneously saw the expression of self-judgment, anger, doubt, frustration, fear, guilt. And recognize how much she still contained, how much she still held on to these things. 

However, on the other side, this is all right. Because if that is what the person feels, then the honest thing to do is to feel them. For we would not have you deny your feeling; this would be more damaging to you. And so our recommendation first and foremost is: do not hold back your tears. If you feel like crying over this, we recommend that you do. And that we actually suggest that you cry all the time, every day, as long as you possibly can. That you feel the pain, the sorrow, the anguish if you wish, and let yourself let the tears flow every day if you want to. For now, wallow in the idea of "poor me," self-pity, or feel the anguish and the frustration of "why me, why now, why here, why this." And if that brings tears, we would strongly urge you to let those tears flow and do it as often as you want, for as long as you want. For then ultimately and eventually you will release through the tears a lot of those energies, a lot of the chemicals that when they build up in your body can cause further damage, a lot of the tension, a lot of the stress. 

And perhaps you will allow yourself, rather than asking "I know I create my reality, what did I do to create this?", rather than asking that, you will ask instead: "What can I do with this?" For in that, your chosen field is as a screenwriter and an inventor of characters. You more than most should understand that a character is defined not by what happens to them, but by what they do with what happens. And thus you must become the character in your own story and allow yourself to recognize that it is not about running around going "why did I create it" and banging your head into a proverbial wall trying to figure out what you think you might have done quote-unquote wrong, or trying to extract and pull the mystery of why you did this from the abyss of your unconscious. But rather focus on the idea that, as we have said, it is not so much what happens to you, but what you do with what happens that will allow you to know who you are, that will allow you to see the true definition of your soul, of your spirit, of your being. 

So ponder this instead, and do not get lost in what many of you might find to be a metaphysical conundrum of getting caught up in the idea of "I create my reality, why did I do this to myself?" For that only will lead to a form of madness. Allow yourself to look forward, to be proactive and creative and constructive, even in this. And again, if you feel the strong emotion come up, let it come. And of course you yourself know that this will give you time to do things that you have wanted to do, that you have created excuses not to do in the sense of "oh I don't have time." But now you do. Now you have no other choice. For that is what it always comes down to. And this is what we have said for many years to many of your people: that when you know that the only way to do the thing you want to do is to give yourself no choice but to do that thing, then you will give yourself no choice. One way or another, you can choose to do it when you are still healthy and whole and stick by the idea that you have no other choice but to move in the direction of your joy. Or you can force yourself to have no other choice by refusing to pay attention to the idea that you could have chosen to do this without having the accident. 

Again, this is not a judgment nor a recrimination nor a chastisement. Nor should it be further for you to add to your own self-judgment: "Oh no, I didn't see it, oh no, why didn't I do it sooner? Then I wouldn't have to be lying here like this all broken up." But that is all right, because the way you did it will be the way that serves your personality best, your psychology best, and will allow you through the healing process to extract from that process for yourself, in your own unique way, your understanding of your relationship to your art and your craft, to your energy, to your creativity, uniquely your own. So go ahead and create. And do not forget that this experience in and of itself can be the seed of a story, and that you do not know where this might lead. Always—and this goes for everyone—you have the opportunity to recognize that when things happen, you need to look at them, or at least have the opportunity to look at them, not just as incidents and events that have occurred in your life as it has unfolded so far, but to take the bigger picture and understand the event as something that has unfolded in your life as an entirety, even though you haven't lived the rest of it yet. In other words, in time you may see how this particular incident fits into the whole scheme of your life, including the portion you haven't yet lived. 

But many of you find yourselves at a loss and mystified by certain events as they occur because you are only looking at these events in relation to the life you have already lived, instead of looking at them in relation to the life you will live in total. So open up. I'm not saying you have to empirically or intellectually know how it relates right now, but open up and understand that it does relate to your entire life, even though you may not understand how at this juncture in a linear space-time reality. Take all of these things to heart. And on that note, we would recommend that now that there is information about the intelligence itself of the heart organ in your body, that you also access—and this goes for any of you also so interested—access the literature, that is the literature of research, to know that there is intelligence and memory and energy and communication that comes from the heart as well as from the brain. And in getting in touch with that, and learning how to listen with and speak from and hear the dialogues of the heart, that this will go perhaps even further than anything toward your healing. 

And that as you already know, you do not have to, shall we say, abide by the cautious ideas of your medical practitioner that it will be impossible for you to walk and run again. You will walk, you will run, you will do whatever you wish to do. And you know it has been done by others many times, especially sometimes in the face of when they are told it will never happen. So put that out of your mind, set it aside, listen to your heart and know what your heart tells you. And when you find in your heart that you are whole, your body will be whole as well. This is the message we have delivered now for this individual. You may send this tape to her and allow her to ponder these things, and there may be more information at another time once this information has been absorbed. 

And now once again we would like to extend to each and every one of you once again our deep appreciation in allowing our civilization to experience the gift of interaction with you. And in return for the gift that you are giving to us, I ask: in what way may I be of service to you now?

### Q&A 1: Writing, Synchronicities, and the Messenger Pigeon
**Audience Member 1:** Good day, good day Bashar. Um, it's been an interesting week. Um, an interesting week, all right. Very interesting, very very interesting day for that matter. Well, last night I really made an effort—I couldn't sleep—and I really made an effort to consciously let go. And that kept drawing me into being conscious of the fact that I was letting go, so I was conscious of that. 
**Bashar:** It's a start. 
**Audience Member 1:** Oh yeah, I actually did actually manage to do it during the meditation last night. 
**Bashar:** Congratulations. 
**Audience Member 1:** And during the week I actually started writing a book, yes, which I entitled uh "The World According to Be." And uh, this has to do with the subject that we can't talk about, but uh, that or that you won't allow me to discuss with you. But uh, so far I've been writing about the past, but I've been—and that's gotten me kind of upset to do that. But I think I... because of certain things that have happened. 
**Bashar:** All right. But I remind you of this before you go on, all of you: remember, when you start to surrender, if there are things that do need looking at, that will exist deep within you that are buried within your subconscious, when you begin the process of surrender, those things that are buried will come up faster, stronger, so that you can surrender them too. So the process of surrender may actually at first throw you into a tailspin even more strongly than you were in, in terms of bringing things up even faster than you thought, and allowing you to deal with them even more frequently than you may have thought. But the idea is that you will balance them out more quickly if you understand that the whole idea of these things coming up is so that you can surrender them too, and then move into total surrender. So any of the pains that come up, allow yourself to recognize that this is an opportunity to let them go as well, by understanding them and the definitions that have brought them to you. Okay? So this book is your own process of dialoguing with yourself and your own inner characters, your own inner archetypes, your own inner voices and personality structures. And in so doing, in having these dialogues with them, learning how these individuals within the individual can form a cohesiveness of communication among them that will allow you to function more holistically as an individual overall. Okay? Um, also, today... was that there anything else you had to say on that or did you...? 
**Audience Member 1:** I was done, otherwise I would still be chattering. Okay, um, today were some interesting synchronicities along those lines. 
**Bashar:** Find that to be redundant, but go ahead. 
**Audience Member 1:** Okay, uh, I found a pigeon on the side of the road today that was uh, didn't seem to be able to walk or fly. His wings weren't broken, he didn't look like he was hit by a car. And I picked him up and uh, brought him in and tried to get some information from an animal shelter. And somehow I intuitively knew that what I was supposed to do... that that, that there was no way he was going to survive. Yet I put him in the shower. 
**Bashar:** Uh, no, not gave him a shower, for those in the audience, just put him in the shower. All right, understood. 
**Audience Member 1:** And uh, he did drink a little bit of water. I put a bowl of water in there. And while I was on the phone trying to get some information on what to do for him, and left him in there... he, I went back in there one time, he flipped over on his back, but uh, he was still alive and his breathing was very labored. And then when I tried to make a phone call again, when I came back from the phone call, he had passed on. 
**Bashar:** Oh, right. 
**Audience Member 1:** And interestingly enough, um, after all that tonight, uh, I went to the Promenade mall, Promenade mall, where the channel often goes to dinner after. And uh, at the movie theaters there, they have a movie that opened tonight called "Poly" which has got a picture of the parrot that I own, all right, on the... that's what the movie is about. 
**Bashar:** All right. So what you are saying is that your life is for the bird? 
**Audience Member 1:** I guess, I guess you could say that, especially right now. But but but one thing that was interesting: I did get uh, on a choice of phone numbers, a phone number which for me, which I won't go into, was very synchronistic in the... and just I guess you would say, but realizing that there are no odds of it coming up, right? Um, that the number was just uh, very uh, I guess you would say uh, reflective and message sending. 
**Bashar:** Form? Exactly. So and this is why you dealing with the pigeon. For in your society the pigeon is the symbol of the messenger, you know, carrier pigeon delivering information and messages. And so the idea here is that you are dealing with the understanding on different levels that what needs to open up within you, as we have already said, is the ability to communicate between the different factions and facets of the personality structures within the whole you. This lets you know that you might find that some of these abilities are well, shall we say, in shock, and that some of them may need to die off so that others can be created. But what you are dealing with is the whole idea of messages, messengering, getting information through and allowing yourself to receive the kind of information you need to function more holistically. And that is why you are synchronistically starting to deal with archetypal symbols and representations of these kinds of. 
**Audience Member 1:** Good thing. Can you give me any more specifics on this particular situation? 
**Bashar:** No, not now. Thank you. 

### Q&A 2: Holistic Advice for Hemochromatosis and a Cyst
**Audience Member 2:** Hi Bashar, you good day. I want to thank you for the money seminar a few weeks back, it's been really amazing for me since then. 
**Bashar:** We thank you for co-creating that with us, all of you. 
**Audience Member 2:** Yes, I've been feeling really happy lately, yes, lately. And I got engaged and I'm really excited about that. 
**Bashar:** All right. 
**Audience Member 2:** I had a couple of medical questions to ask you, one for me and one for my fiance who's not here tonight. But um, the one about him is he's got a problem: one of his testicles has a lump in it and the doctors don't seem to know what it is, and he's been through several tests and several doctors. I was wondering if you had any information on that, cuz it kind of hurts. 
**Bashar:** It's a cyst. 
**Audience Member 2:** Great, great, thank you. 
**Bashar:** And one buildup. Okay. 
**Audience Member 2:** And the one for me is I just found out that I apparently have a um, a blood disorder that's inherited that my mother has and my uncle has, called hemochromatosis, where I store too much iron in my blood. 
**Bashar:** A colorful name. 
**Audience Member 2:** And according to the Western doctors all you can do is watch your iron intake and go and get your blood drained out of you all the time to keep your blood kind of diluted. 
**Bashar:** How vampiric. 
**Audience Member 2:** I know, and here I am the Anne Rice fan, yes. Um, is it any wonder then... yeah, is it any wonder. But I wanted to know for myself and my relatives if there are any other more holistic things that you recommend that I can do. 
**Bashar:** You know I knew there would be. What do you have in mind? You can allow yourself to find what you call a qigong master to balance your energy flows. This will help orient some of the idea of how minerals are deposited into the body and allow you to dispel what needs to be dispelled and to retain what needs to be retained in a more balanced way. That is one way. Okay. One moment, one moment, one moment. Some minimal electromagnetic therapy may be of benefit for you initially, but do not carry it too far nor too long. One moment. How was your diet in general? 
**Audience Member 2:** It's pretty healthy. I don't eat red meat which is high in iron, and uh, I have been using an iron skillet—I'm going to stop doing that. Um, I do seem to crave a lot of sugar, you know, but in general it's better than the average American. 
**Bashar:** One moment. How is your copper intake? 
**Audience Member 2:** I have no idea. 
**Bashar:** Find out. Okay, it may be related to the idea of a necessary balance in that area as well. One moment. How was your calcium intake? 
**Audience Member 2:** Well, I don't drink milk. 
**Bashar:** There are many ways to take calcium. I do, right? I do eat some leafy vegetables. I don't take any calcium supplements. I don't know. It may be necessary for you to do so for a little while, but we would direct you towards someone to assess this for you. 
**Audience Member 2:** So I may need more calcium and more copper, or less copper? 
**Bashar:** You may need a little less copper, you may need a little more calcium. But again, it would be best if you could have a holistic nutritionist look at the idea of the balance of elements and minerals within you. Okay, to take a mineral reading either through the idea of your hair, you understand? All right, an analysis in that sense of the balance of the other minerals in your system. For it may be an imbalance of other minerals, and thus an imbalance in certain organs, that is allowing for the imbalance of the iron in the blood. 
**Audience Member 2:** Right, my liver has been diagnosed is not too good. 
**Bashar:** Yes, and thus then this may need to be fortified. Some homeopathic application for the liver may also be of benefit for you. 
**Audience Member 2:** Do you think I can get by with just these treatments and not have to do the blood letting? 
**Bashar:** Eventually you will not have to do that. 
**Audience Member 2:** But I may at first have to do? 
**Bashar:** Allow yourself to continue until you yourself can see, and until it can be measured that you no longer need such a thing, by the application of the more holistic treatment. 
**Audience Member 2:** Will the Kombucha tea help this too? 
**Bashar:** Not so much, no. It'll help with other things. So it can help as a general vitalizer, but the idea is that actually for now it can also act to confuse the readings. 
**Audience Member 2:** Oh, okay. Well thank you so much. 
**Bashar:** Thank you. You, good day.

### Q&A 3: Healing a Cat's Congenital Defect and Infection
**Audience Member 3:** Hi, good day. Um, would like your input on um, my... would like your input on my regarding my cat's health, Fuzzy, who had a nasal infection raging for like five months. And we tried a series antibiotics. I found one that was, I was injecting. And um, then at the same time I had a um, did a lot of stuff, and one of them was a biopsy, which the pathologist said it was cancer. And I didn't feel really that it was cancer, it just... I don't know, it didn't feel right. 
**Bashar:** So I... 
**Audience Member 3:** It is more from our perception a congenital defect. So I... 
**Bashar:** You had me understand this, yeah. There is a congenital defect in the area that allows there to be ease of infection. Do you follow? There is a weakening in the area that allows there to be infection more easily than there ought to be. 
**Audience Member 3:** Yes. 
**Bashar:** But it is not the idea so much of the breakdown of the cellular structure in the form of cancer, as it is the idea simply of a weakening of the cellular structure, of a weakening of the cellular structure of the bonds between the cells. One moment, one moment, one moment. This may sound a little odd to you, though in some senses you will recognize it, though you may not necessarily have heard of its application in this way. It might be wise for a little while—not overly much, but as much as the cat feels comfortable with in taking—to allow there to be the ingestion of a little of what you call chicken broth. Okay, something I make myself? That's as clean, organic as you can. For the elements and the substances in the animal, in the cells of the chicken, are specifically geared towards cellular bonding, and may allow there to be a bonding, and may allow there to be a strengthening in the system of the animal. It may take a few months. 
**Audience Member 3:** Okay, well how many cc's? 
**Bashar:** Like, allow the cat to lap up what the cat feels like lapping up, in terms of presenting it in a small bowl. Do you understand? 
**Audience Member 3:** Yes. Um, just real quickly, so I did give her this antibiotic for um, 3 months. 
**Bashar:** Yes. 
**Audience Member 3:** And everything resolved gorgeously, and she was gaining weight and everything. And then after about 5 weeks, on March 29th, yes, she all of a sudden started getting swollen lymph glands in her throat. 
**Bashar:** Great. 
**Audience Member 3:** Discharge, yes. 
**Bashar:** You know, try the antibiotic again? 
**Audience Member 3:** Just only got worse. 
**Bashar:** Yes. The idea again is that there is a breakdown of the cellular structure in the cellular bonding that allows for opportunistic infections to root. 
**Audience Member 3:** But then I did culture and it grew up, you know, non-pathogenic. It wasn't the same thing at all. 
**Bashar:** No, it will be different infections at different times, because the idea stems from something else, from cellular breakdown. 
**Audience Member 3:** But and then um, and then her one eye last Sunday just got so enlarged it almost looked like she was... it was going to burst, and started getting a little jaundice. So uh, I took her... um, of course I work in the hospital, but so allow the doctor to um, give her some steroids, which you know they wanted to all along because they thought it was cancer. And within couple hours the eye went down. 
**Bashar:** Right, sometimes these things will assist in short-term ways. If it has gone that far, you may need something that is very powerful at first. What we are addressing is the idea of long-term healing, right, for the animal, so that this will not crop up in the future. 
**Audience Member 3:** Yes, do you follow? Yes, well and so. And also, so no chemo? 
**Bashar:** And also the idea of the giving of the animal food stuffs that are natural and raw. 
**Audience Member 3:** Natural and raw? Raw, what? 
**Bashar:** Natural and raw, raw meats and vegetables. 
**Audience Member 3:** Raw meat? Yes. Is this difficult in your language, is this translating properly? 
**Bashar:** Yes. Which kind of meat? You will find that there are a few outlets for the idea of healthy, organic, raw meats and vegetables for animals that will allow them to divest from their system the toxins that build up over time that cause the cellular breakdown that is aggravated by the congenital defect in your animal. 
**Audience Member 3:** So this is why I had an ultrasound on her and they found these nodules on her liver, which they say "oh that's cancer." And I... I don't... 
**Bashar:** These can be cleared up. Pay attention to what we are saying, okay? You must change the diet of the animal from the processed foods to those things which are raw and natural. 
**Audience Member 3:** So no cat food? 
**Bashar:** Yes, it is in your terms cat food, but it is raw, natural cat food, not processed. Do you understand? 
**Audience Member 3:** But I mean like get her away from man-made cat food altogether? 
**Bashar:** Or it can be like both things? No. Okay, one more time and she'll eat it. There are outlets that will provide what you call pet food that is only raw, organic, natural meats and vegetables. It can still be considered cat food, but it is not processed and canned in the way that you are used to. Do you understand? 
**Audience Member 3:** Yeah. 
**Bashar:** There are those that can help you find it. 
**Audience Member 3:** Thank you very much. 
**Bashar:** All right, you good day then. You, do you know who you are? To number two, all right. So it's really a pleasure to be here. We are happy that you are happy. You are there, I think we should all visualize that this man gets a record deal and goes on tour. Really quickly, visualize success for them. You are referring to the idea of the individuals that are playing music in your area, yes. They will be moving one door over soon. 
**Audience Member 3:** Oh, fabulous.

### Q&A 4: Alien Abductions, Biological Sampling, and Past Lives on Mars
**Audience Member 4:** Um, I have a couple things I'd love to talk to you about. I had a uh, strange experience one night. I woke up... 
**Bashar:** Is this saying something new for you? 
**Audience Member 4:** No, no, it's not. 
**Bashar:** All right. 
**Audience Member 4:** Uh, I woke up and I was completely paralyzed, fully awake, yes, but my body was vibrating almost like an electrical charge was going through it. 
**Bashar:** Yes, like a tuning fork something, but more profound than anything I had felt. 
**Audience Member 4:** But it didn't... I... it didn't feel like, if there's such a thing as a typical abduction... 
**Bashar:** I understand what you mean. 
**Audience Member 4:** And I heard a helicopter overhead. And I live in Hollywood, so there are a lot of helicopters, and I'm pretty hip to the way they move and how fast they... the sound diminishes. Well, this sound did not move for I would say about five or six minutes. It literally was on top of me. 
**Bashar:** Nice. Well, this is also not unusual for one of your craft... 
**Audience Member 4:** For one of your helicopters? 
**Bashar:** Oh, it is not unusual for it to be hovering really loudly right overhead. 
**Audience Member 4:** So you don't think that this had anything to do with the military um, detainment of any...? 
**Bashar:** It had nothing to do with your military this time. 
**Audience Member 4:** No, okay. This time? Are you ever going to tell me about any of that? 
**Bashar:** We will talk about it from time to time in bits and pieces when appropriate. 
**Audience Member 4:** I'm feeling pretty brave about it. 
**Bashar:** It doesn't just have to do with you. All right, let me ask you: has biological material been taken from me? 
**Audience Member 4:** Yes. 
**Bashar:** Are have they created clones of me? 
**Audience Member 4:** No. 
**Bashar:** Is there a reason why they're taking this biological material? 
**Audience Member 4:** Yes. 
**Bashar:** Can you share that with me? 
**Audience Member 4:** Yes, thank you, I'd love that. But will you? 
**Bashar:** That's a different question. Are you referring to the idea of extraterrestrials or what you call your military? 
**Audience Member 4:** I'd like to know about both. I know that genetic stuff's been taken by extraterrestrials, but I've found some new scoop marks that I can't explain that are smaller in nature. Yes, and I just don't know who's taking them. I'd like to know. 
**Bashar:** The idea is that there is a study, a cellular study, not unlike one of the agendas of study of one of the extraterrestrial groups, to study certain effects upon the body, how the cells respond to certain vibrations and wavelengths. The idea is that in observing how the genetic structure of the cell reacts and responds to certain frequencies of energy, it can be more clearly determined what frequencies the entire body will be responsive to, for a variety of applications. Do you follow me? 
**Audience Member 4:** Yes. 
**Bashar:** Will that do? 
**Audience Member 4:** Um, are they creating other beings, perhaps cloning? 
**Bashar:** No, okay, this is not the point of the study. All right, um, does it have... did you understand what we explained? 
**Audience Member 4:** Kind of, I mean basically that it's possible they're taking some sort of tissue to sample the effects on that because it'll give you an idea of what the whole body might... 
**Bashar:** Yes, how the whole body be affected. 
**Audience Member 4:** Yes. Now let me ask you, I get the sense that this is... this is another theory I'm running by you that um, military abductions are sometimes interdimensional? 
**Bashar:** No, they're not. 
**Audience Member 4:** No? So there is no faction of an extraterrestrial race that might pull you out in an interdimensional fashion and an extraterrestrial race... 
**Bashar:** Yes, but I mean deliver you to the military for possible... 
**Audience Member 4:** No, okay, great. 
**Bashar:** Then then I've got a couple incidents I explain it in what you would call such a military or quasi-military action that gives you the effect of an interdimensional shift is the result of the idea of what you would call either drugs and/or mind control frequencies. 
**Audience Member 4:** Right. Well, you know, I'm trying to unravel the muddied waters of research in terms of mind control victims versus abductions. 
**Bashar:** Your civilization does not have what you would call a handle on interdimensional shifting to that degree. All right, um, there are experimentations, but not to that degree. 
**Audience Member 4:** Okay, so if I suspect a military abduction, they actually walked into my house? 
**Bashar:** Or you simply were sometimes bumped up against and material taken. 
**Audience Member 4:** You mean... oh my god. 
**Bashar:** It is one of the most common practices to simply bump up against an individual in a crowd. 
**Audience Member 4:** What? Yes, is that for real? 
**Bashar:** Yes, both for extraction and injections. You may feel a small little prick or bite and may think it is nothing but a strong itch, because it goes away so fast. And it's extremely physical. 
**Audience Member 4:** This being is physical in our reality? 
**Bashar:** Yes. 
**Audience Member 4:** Unbelievable. 
**Bashar:** No, it is not unbelievable. 
**Audience Member 4:** Astounding. All right, if you say so. Wow, well I'm thrilled with this information. I have um, probably one more question, maybe more. Um, keep one for now, okay. Um, in my regression when I saw myself as a reptilian being, yes. And we were basically mental warriors. And I found out that the reason I feel a sense of communion with this species is because I feel that I belong to that species, not literally, but in a sense. 
**Bashar:** Of course there are attachments vibrationally from one culture to the other in certain ways. 
**Audience Member 4:** Okay, well I definitely felt a part of this culture some way, yes. And I was wondering do they... I kind of get this feeling that maybe Atlantean or some ancient civilization were reptilian on this planet? 
**Bashar:** No, no, no. 
**Audience Member 4:** How about on Mars? 
**Bashar:** The idea only that you are perceiving is again that the beings that you now refer to as reptilian, that their genetics were extracted from what you call the dinosaur species that did exist on your planet, and thus created in that way. And so you sense that connection to your world in that sense. But as a sentient race, no, they did not exist on your planet as a civilization as such. 
**Audience Member 4:** Now what about Mars? Was it a precursor of this civilization in some senses? 
**Bashar:** There is some genetic mixing between the idea of Earth human and Mars's ancient being, yes. But to say a precursor is a little bit too linear, although there is something to that idea. 
**Audience Member 4:** So it wasn't like we got off of Mars because it was being destroyed? 
**Bashar:** Literally, yes. The idea of what you might call incarnation. Yes, as the planet you call Mars became less and less inhabitable, then there was less and less incarnation upon that world and more and more upon the Earth. 
**Audience Member 4:** I see. 
**Bashar:** As bodies were formed and created for the idea of incarnation, then the incarnational over-soul moved in that sense from the Martian sphere to the Earth sphere. And so in that sense, yes. And to some degree, some similar genetic material was also infused in the early days of the creation of the human species on Earth from the ancient Martian species as well. But not so much the idea of an absolute, as you would say, across-the-board genetic marker precursor. Do you follow? 
**Audience Member 4:** Yes, just more of the idea of mixing things to see what would be most beneficial for the environment of the body being created. 
**Bashar:** Well, it's really our last... it's the new frontier is biogenetic research and biotechnology, so I can understand why the great are just having a field day with that technology. 
**Audience Member 4:** They have had that technology for a long time, yeah. Preserving our race, I'm assuming? 
**Bashar:** Well, that is a very small slice of the idea. We will not go into the bigger picture now. All right. 

### Q&A 5: Sacred Geometry, Numbers, and Remembrance Circles
**Audience Member 5:** Two, hi Bashar, and you good day. Oh boy, I've um, really tapped into um, something for me with this James Twyman and the piece, and the emissary of light, and that 12-spoke wheel with one in the center of the wheel, adds up to the 13, yes. And um, I... it really seemed to tie into my remembrance circle, that console of nine, using the three, my three different colored stones: clear, brown, and green. Yes, and I would put those around the circle in nine, and then I would sit in the middle. 
**Bashar:** All right, whatever the ritual is that your imagination comes up with to harmonize with the vibration that you are at any given moment is the tool that works for you. 
**Audience Member 5:** Yes, right. And then after uh, really touching in with um, this audio book, and that uh, I had noticed that I had set them up with the 9-1-4, which is a monolith doorway, yes. And 1-4-9, yes. Yeah, 1-4-9. But it... I noticed that it ties into the 9-1-4, which really tied into the birds... kept going 9-1-4, 9-1-4. Um, is there a specific sequence? 
**Bashar:** I mean, uh, no, not necessarily. Different combinations may carry different resonances for whatever perspective or point of view you may be working with at any given moment. It may be for the purpose of unlocking a different understanding, in that it comes in a different sequence at any given moment. 
**Audience Member 5:** I got you, okay. So I remember that it is holographic as you call it, yeah. And thus a different angle will give you a completely different whole picture. 
**Bashar:** All right. 
**Audience Member 5:** And I felt that uh, now sitting in the middle of that with that energy, seems to tie in with a broader bandwidth that you had mentioned, yes, that the brown stone was reflecting. I also have really been bringing up some very peaceful... it seems like conflict resolutions that would have been very devastating for some of the things before, and it's just beautifully transpiring with the peace. 
**Bashar:** All right, very good. Congratulations. 
**Audience Member 5:** So uh, that was mainly... I was just going to share that. 
**Bashar:** Thank you. Will that suffice then? 
**Audience Member 5:** Yes. 
**Bashar:** Thank you. 

### Q&A 6: Career Choices, Following Your Highest Joy, and Reality as a Mirror
**Audience Member 6:** Three, good evening. 
**Bashar:** And you, good day. 
**Audience Member 6:** A good day, almighty, our wise... I'd like to ask... 
**Bashar:** I beg your pardon? 
**Audience Member 6:** Are you speaking of yourself? 
**Bashar:** Oh, okay. 
**Audience Member 6:** I'd like to ask a question. Um, will I remain at the company I'm with? 
**Bashar:** Do you want to? 
**Audience Member 6:** In a way, yes. 
**Bashar:** In a way, yes. Or unequivocally yes? 
**Audience Member 6:** I mean, I... I do. 
**Bashar:** Are you sure? 
**Audience Member 6:** Well... 
**Bashar:** Well, let me now ask you a question that may put things into perspective and allow you to answer these kinds of questions in the future without needing to ask us such a question. First of all, you must understand something very important: there is no such thing as a prediction. There is no such thing as a prediction of the future. There is only a sensing of the energy that exists at the time of the prediction. If that energy does not change course, then it comes to pass, and you can say the prediction came true. But if the energy that is sensed does change, then the prediction does not come true. This doesn't mean the prediction was wrong; it only means that there is no such thing as a prediction of the future. There are an infinite number of probable future realities. What you sense at any given moment, what you call a so-called prediction, is only once again a sensing of the momentum and the setup and the arrangement of the energy at the moment the sensing is made. Go. Now that's number one. 
Number two, this is the fundamental question to always ask yourself to determine whether or not you are or are not going to be in a particular place at a particular time. And that question is this, and I ask it to you now, answer however you wish: Are you ready? 
**Audience Member 6:** Yes. 
**Bashar:** All right. Are you sure? 
**Audience Member 6:** Yes. 
**Bashar:** All right. Are you following your highest joy? 
**Audience Member 6:** Right... are you following your highest joy as best as you know? No. 
**Bashar:** Thank you. Why not? 
**Audience Member 6:** Because I'm part of the 9-to-5, you know. 
**Bashar:** Well, that's an interesting answer, but what does that mean? I mean, I got stuck in that corporate... you know what it means? It means you are choosing to be there. You're not stuck. 
**Audience Member 6:** Aren't you making choices? 
**Bashar:** Well, yeah, don't... well, yes is the answer to that. Everything in life is the product of a choice: to act, to look at something a certain way, to believe a certain definition to be truer than another, is it not? 
**Audience Member 6:** Yes. 
**Bashar:** Are not all your motivations based on what you believe to be true, and then you act according to those beliefs? 
**Audience Member 6:** Yeah, well you know what I'm getting at, but what else can I do? 
**Bashar:** You can follow your joy. 
**Audience Member 6:** Which is what, marry a rich man and live in the Caribbean? 
**Bashar:** I mean, well, maybe. But look at it this way: when we talk to all of you about acting on your highest joy, first of all, we are usually referring to what is specific to you, regardless of the involvement of any other people. So it may not be the idea that you need to be supported by another individual. You must understand something very critical, very critical about joy. Joy and excitement, that vibration, is the frequency of your true natural self, the way you actually naturally were created by the infinite. That's what that vibration is there to tell you: that you are squarely in alignment and on the path of your true natural self. When you find that the things you do contain the highest amount of excitement, creativity, love, and joy, that's what lets you know, like a compass needle, you are pointing to True North within yourself. 
When you are not doing that, you're not being yourself. When you're not being yourself, life can't support the true you; it can only support the you you are being. But when you are being your true self, life can support nothing but the true self, because there's nothing else to reflect. And I guarantee—not because I have the power to, but because the infinite, all that is creation, has already guaranteed—so I can guarantee that when you are your true natural self, and living constantly by following your joy and acting on nothing else to the best of your ability every moment, then you will find that the definition of what your natural self is contains the ability to be supported by reality, by creation, in whatever way, shape, or form you—the unique you that you were created to be—needs to be supported. To whatever degree of abundance you need to be supported, to whatever degree of expression of yourself you are willing to put out. Am I making sense? 
**Audience Member 6:** Yes. 
**Bashar:** This is physics. It is not philosophy. It is physics. This is how reality works. What you put out is what you get back. It's plain and simple. I guarantee you, I tell you now, please take it to heart, all of you: nothing ever has been, nothing is being now, and nothing ever will be, for a second, denied to you. You are denied nothing in creation. Nothing is held from you. Nothing, nothing. Only you can hold it from yourself. Only you, by believing in definitions that are not in alignment with who you truly are. And the definitions that are not in alignment with who you truly are are the definitions that allow you to experience life in fear, in doubt, in hesitation, in pain, in suffering, in misery. The definitions that are in alignment with who you truly are are the definitions that allow you to believe in life as joy, as love, as creativity. And then you get to see the reflection instantly. 
If you stop judging what you get to be other than the product of your natural self, is this sinking in? 
**Audience Member 6:** Gotta... is this helping? 
**Bashar:** Yeah, because it's... yeah, I know, I know. Most of you are raised with certain expectations that bring about certain hesitations to really believe that that's the way life works. And that's why we have, for many years, said that one of the greatest shocks to humanity you will ever discover will be that what you have always believed to be a fairy tale is actually the way life works. Wow. This is how life works, because physical reality is a mirror. There is no physical reality. There is no physical reality except what you define it to be. That's what physical reality is. It is a mirror. And like a glass mirror, once again, the expression on your face is what you see in the reflection. You can have a frown on your face, and you can wish that your reflection... you can wish it to smile all day long, but it won't until you do, because it can't until you do. But when you choose to smile, the mirror reflection can't do anything but smile. That's what physical reality is. It has no mind of its own. It has no will of its own. It is the reflection of all the combined beliefs, pro and con, you hold to be true. And that's it. 
That is the great gift of the infinite to you: that you have that much freedom to decide what your reality will be. You have total free will in that sense. Yes, there are certain things you may have agreed to generally abide by and share in any particular game of life that you may be playing on any particular planet, in any particular civilization, at any given moment. Yes, you may stay within a certain genre of probabilities. But with regard to the personality you happen to be within that game, nothing is denied that is truly essential for that personality's absolute, utter, unconditional, and total joy. Do you understand that? 
**Audience Member 6:** Thank you. 
**Bashar:** That's how it is. I guarantee it 100%. When you live that way, you'll see it. But don't live that way because we say so; live that way because that's what you prefer, because it's up to you. And I would not for a second think, nor even be so audacious and arrogant to assume, that I have any ability or any power or any right to take away any of your misery if that's what you want to hold on to. I will not do that to you, because what you choose to put yourself through is your sacred journey, and you can learn from it. I am simply hinting strongly that you don't have to do it that way. And it all comes down to the idea of what you define your reality to be, and what you define as being possible. And that's really, as you say, the bottom line. 
**Audience Member 6:** Does that help you? 
**Bashar:** Yes, thank you. 

### Q&A 7: Dimensional Shifting, Crop Circles, and the Upcoming UFO Season
**Audience Member 7:** Number four, number four, yes, where four? Hi Bashar, now I have the mic I can talk softly. 
**Bashar:** Good day. 
**Audience Member 7:** Good day. Um, I'd like to talk to you about an event that happened to me in a crop circle last summer. 
**Bashar:** Yes. One moment. Again, I would never tell any of you what to do. I would highly suggest you all pay attention. There is always something anyone can get out of what anyone has to say, and none of you are where you are by accident. It's an orchestration. So pay attention to the whole orchestra and every note, for you may be surprised by what does resonate with you, even though you may think it's a subject that has nothing to do with you. Proceed. 
**Audience Member 7:** I was in the large snowflake star fractal which appeared under the nose of the White Horse, yes, Alton Barnes, yes. Which for people in this room is on the cover of our calendar. Yes. And uh, I was taking photographs, and I removed my clog shoes—which were, um... 
**Bashar:** You're referring to a type of shoe, not that your shoes were clogged up? 
**Audience Member 7:** No, oh right, a type of shoe that slides on and off easily. 
**Bashar:** Um, seems like an odd name when they slide on and off so easily. Slide shoes, all right. 
**Audience Member 7:** And uh, I put them on to walk back to the car. It was a long walk, about a half a mile. 
**Bashar:** Yes. 
**Audience Member 7:** And that is a long walk to you? 
**Bashar:** Well, for a crop circle, it is. 
**Audience Member 7:** Oh, all right. And it... it's important for the story. Um, so I clicked the heels of the shoes together to get the mud off at the car, and put the shoes in the car, and put my tennis shoes on. The next day I went back to the crop circle, and I was inside the crop circle taking photographs again, on the other side of where I had been before, yes. And um, this time I had a digital movie camera. And right in frame, across the crop circle, a German researcher held up one of my clog shoes, or slide shoes. 
**Bashar:** Oh. 
**Audience Member 7:** Right? And said, "Did someone lose this, guys?" Um, and it was my shoe. And which I had not been able to find the night before. 
**Bashar:** Oh, right. 
**Audience Member 7:** When I got back to my house, I couldn't find... I only had one shoe. 
**Bashar:** You could not find the other that you knew you had clicked together? 
**Audience Member 7:** Yes. 
**Bashar:** All right. 
**Audience Member 7:** And so... so well, there it was the next day in this man's hand, exactly where I had been taking photographs the day before. 
**Bashar:** Yes. 
**Audience Member 7:** And so, is there supposed to be something mysterious about this? 
**Bashar:** Completely? Oh, I see. So you mean you have forgotten that we talked about the idea that time and space would become more slippery? 
**Audience Member 7:** Right, no, I have not forgotten. 
**Bashar:** Oh, well, right then. Why should such incidents surprise you? 
**Audience Member 7:** Well, it's just that I always like your poetic kind of... 
**Bashar:** Oh, I see, you are flattering me. Thank you. Your poetic reading on some of these events. 
**Audience Member 7:** Poetic reading? Oh, all right. I mean, I can tell you what I came up with. 
**Bashar:** Oh, all right, please do. 
**Audience Member 7:** One is the fact that Dorothy, to get home, clicks her heels. 
**Bashar:** Nice. 
**Audience Member 7:** Only click halfway. 
**Bashar:** Right. Why didn't both shoes disappear? 
**Audience Member 7:** Well, you know what they say: one foot in one world, one foot in the other. 
**Bashar:** Bridging the gap between dimensions. What better illustration than that? 
**Audience Member 7:** Yes, no, oh yeah. But how do you explain this to the scientists? 
**Bashar:** Why do you have to? 
**Audience Member 7:** Because they're all around and they want to know. 
**Bashar:** So do they not understand the idea of dimensional resonance shifting? 
**Audience Member 7:** No, I think some of them do. 
**Bashar:** Do you actually want a scientific explanation? 
**Audience Member 7:** Yes. 
**Bashar:** It may not mean that they will believe it, even though you may give them what you call a rational scientific description, because it may still be beyond what they believe to be possible. But I will give you a scientific explanation if you wish. 
**Audience Member 7:** Okay, all right, thank you. 
**Bashar:** It is again the same principle as our spacecraft, in what you would call singularity resonance identification. The idea again being that everything is one thing, everything is here and now. And therefore, the idea is that you can allow the vibrational frequency, the identifying resonance frequency that labels a thing to be that thing, to be shifted. Because location is not a place that an object exists in; location is one of the properties of the object. So if you change the locational frequency of an object, it must by definition take up resonance in the new location that is representative of the changing of that frequency variable within the equation that makes up the vibrational energy of the object. Did you follow that? 
**Audience Member 7:** That... you follow that? 
**Bashar:** No. 
**Audience Member 7:** All right, one more time. Imagine that every object, such as your shoe, is made up of energy. Are you with me so far? 
**Bashar:** Yes. 
**Audience Member 7:** All right. It has a frequency that identifies it as a shoe in a particular place and time. You understand? That is represented by one particular frequency resonance equation. If you were to take that shoe and move it even an infinite... to another spot, but let's just say for the purposes of this illustration, another foot away, then it would have a different frequency resonance identification equation. You would have changed the locational variable. Do you follow me? 
**Bashar:** Right. 
**Audience Member 7:** Now, if you can change the locational variable in the shoe when it is in location A, and change that particular variable to the frequency of location B, by definition the shoe must simply cease to exist at location A and start to exist at location B, because it can do nothing else. Because it has been redefined by its equation as only being capable of existing at that particular point in the entire holographic resonance matrix. Does that make some sense to you? 
**Bashar:** Yes. 
**Audience Member 7:** But in the case of your spaceship? 
**Bashar:** Yes, there are a whole bunch of beings who have the intention of going from A to B. 
**Audience Member 7:** Well, yes. 
**Bashar:** But the idea is that that's the way nature works anyway. There are natural resonance slippages. And also don't forget that your consciousness plays a part in terms of what you intend, and that the things that are yours, your objects that represent you and symbolize you in a sense that you own, so to speak, will do your bidding, will follow the line of your consciousness. And if your consciousness begins to open doors between dimensions, the objects around you will begin to slip through them. You follow? 
**Audience Member 7:** Yeah. 
**Bashar:** So you are becoming more multi-dimensional yourself. That is one of the signals that you are giving yourself to let you know that you're opening more doorways, and that the things that were formerly considered to be so solid and tangible to you can really move around in time and space quite quickly, instantaneously. You follow me? 
**Audience Member 7:** Yeah. 
**Bashar:** So if the shoe fits, does this make some sense and help explain it for you? 
**Audience Member 7:** It does. Um, one other question: the significance of 11:11? 
**Bashar:** Well, there are many significances that can be given to that. Remember, everything is devoid of meaning on its own; you give it meaning. But the idea is that 11:11 in general acts as a template for you... guessed it? Domains. Gates. You understand? Right, shifting from one level or frequency to another. That's generally what 11:11 represents. It is similar in our ancient language to the old word we had representing reflection from one to the other, which is "El", which is also the word for mirror. And if you'll understand that how the word "El" translates in your language as "I-L", it's very close in form to 11:11, isn't it? 
**Audience Member 7:** Yes. 
**Bashar:** Okay, and was helping you? 
**Audience Member 7:** Yes, very much. Uh, any insights about the coming season, which is ready to begin any moment? 
**Bashar:** It is ready to gear up. Yes, it is gearing up. One moment, one moment, one moment. There may be a few indicators in late May, but in full swing in June. One moment. Look for one high concentration perhaps around mid-June that will really set things off in an interesting direction. One moment. You are going to see something added to the rotational... one moment. There will be this season three opportunities. Now pay attention to how we are saying this: we are not saying that people will accomplish this, but there will be three opportunities to catch some things on what you call videotape. However, once again I remind you, individuals who simply do not want to be focused on this information will not care what you have on tape; it will not matter. 
**Audience Member 7:** Yes, I've seen that. 
**Bashar:** All right. That have recently been with regard to the idea of what you call extraterrestrial spacecraft, there have recently been some very strong, very very obvious videotapes. You other people don't care; they look right at it and they say, "Well, it's a hoax." Now, some of them are, yes. We're not saying that every sighting is real, you know this as well as we. But many times what you're looking at is in your terms genuine, yet they will still look at it and say, "Oh, it was done this way, it was done that way." And if they actually even stopped to use a modicum of logic, they would realize that would be impossible, right? Do you follow me? 
**Audience Member 7:** Absolutely. 
**Bashar:** But they don't want to go that way. They don't ask the simple questions. There is one in particular that was recently shown in what you call your public television airwaves, that occurred in what you call your Mexico City suburbs, that was in broad daylight, and was next to tall building structures. And yet there are individuals that say, "Oh, well, yes, we understand after filmic analysis that the object is really there, that it is a solid object, but it was built and it was hung from a cable." Now, yes, sometimes this has been done. However, the individual did not go any further to say, "Well, wait a minute, if it's hung by a cable, what is suspending it? What is holding it?" But there were no aerial other devices, helicopter, or any other crane or mechanism visible to any of the witnesses. And there were witnesses present, live witnesses. And if it had been, in your term, suspended by such a machine, a helicopter, a machine of your own creation, no one stops to wonder: "Well, how did it get there? Why did no one see the helicopter bringing it into the middle of the city? Why did it suddenly just appear there and then disappear from that location? Where did the helicopter go?" No one seems to want to ask these questions. When they don't want to ask those questions, they don't ask them. So I simply caution you: that is a genuine sighting. And the idea is that no matter how much you get on your videotape, there will simply be certain individuals who, even if they were to witness such things in person, will still find a way to explain it away. And that's all right, that's all right. That is not what you're doing. What you're doing is for you and your growth. And should there be an opportunity for you to share your information, and you find that your information might allow another individual to change their world view, well, so be it. And I know you will find joy in that. But please, it would be our strong suggestion that you not make that your quest. Do you follow? 
**Audience Member 7:** Absolutely. 
**Bashar:** Does this help you? 
**Audience Member 7:** It does. And the luminous white balls of light, are those turned on and off? 
**Bashar:** It will, in the sense that they're always around us in the fields. But it's... well, in some senses, yes. They are not actually around you in that form. They are in potentiality within the electromagnetic fields of your planet. And if, to use your euphemistic phrase, they are "turned on," then the electromagnetic fields will concentrate themselves and focus themselves in a lens-like manner so that what you perceive to be the glowing balls of light can form. But they do not exist in the field in potentiality in that way, except in the etheric field. You follow? 
**Audience Member 7:** But even on that film where it was caught making the crop circle, it looked like they just appeared rather than kind of flew into the frame. 
**Bashar:** And they will form out of the electromagnetic field. Again, the analogy will be that on the etheric level, or the causal level, the template level of reality, they will already exist. But then they will, in a sense, require that they clothe themselves, if you wish, with the electromagnetic energies of the physical world in order to be perceived, and in a sense have an effect and an impact upon your physical reality. Does that make sense to you? 
**Audience Member 7:** Yes, it does. So they can also do the same job and remain invisible to some degree? 
**Bashar:** Yes, in certain circumstances, yes, when the focus can be done that way. But very often there will actually be required for certain processes to become visible, otherwise the impact will not be strong enough, their effect upon your physical world will not be strong enough. It depends upon the conditions. Do you understand? There are many variables, both physical and non-physical, both etheric and physical and causal. There are many variables that must be in balance in order for something to be done in that way, and the utilization of those fields to occur in that way where they are not visible, right? Does this help you? 
**Audience Member 7:** Yes, it does. Thank you. 

### Q&A 8: Timelines for UFO Disclosure and Global Power Structures
**Audience Member 8:** Number two, do you know who you are? Who is the... here Bashar, good day. Do I... do I understand correctly that from your vantage point we are living in your past? 
**Bashar:** Well, that is again a euphemism. We are in a completely different dimensional frequency. The closest translation that makes sense to a linear space-time reality is that we would be considered to be 300 years in your future. But that is really a convenience of terminology more than anything else, because everything exists all at once. 
**Audience Member 8:** Okay. From that vantage point, can you tell us a specific time frame for the general and public acceptance and understanding of the UFO phenomenon? 
**Bashar:** Well, absolutely no later than 2037. Now, there will be many things that will begin to come up before that. There will be certain revelations in around your year of 2005 to 2007. And remember, this is as we sense the collective of your planet as it stands now, and it can change. It can. Although we do sense that there's an awful lot of momentum behind this idea, and therefore any changes might be relatively slight. So there will begin to be more information that is released and understood and known in between the window of your year of 2005 to 2007. You will find that by your year of 2012, 2013, there will be actually quite a lot of information. But by your year of 2029, you will find that there will generally be almost no one on your planet who is not aware of the idea of the existence of extraterrestrials. And by your year of 2037, your planet in general will most likely be at a level of vibrational resonance where it will become part of what we call the Association of Worlds. 
**Audience Member 8:** Um, in the immediate future, prior to 2012, 2013, right, will the consciousness of the public in this country advance to the point to prevent a dictatorship by the paramilitary government? 
**Bashar:** There will be no dictatorship. You must understand something that they themselves do not understand, those that would have a desire for such a structure and the establishment of such control. They have not yet really understood, and they are blinded by their own desire, that such a structure would collapse under its own weight almost instantaneously the moment it was formed. 
**Audience Member 8:** I see. But it will not even get that far? 
**Bashar:** One final question, just in general, can you give a brief overview of the power structure on this planet today? 
**Bashar:** Well, there are actually quite a few that are interacting and intersecting. The idea, however, in general, I will put it this way: is that the power structure only exists primarily because the majority of people on your planet are willing to continue to give their power away to others. The power always exists within all of you. But the idea is that the more you, all of you, start to redefine what power means, then the easier it will be for the natural power structure to begin to replace the artificial power structures that exist now. Most of you already know that the artificial power structures are simply set up in a manner whereby the control of what you call currency, and the control of what you call technology, allows individuals to create circumstances and situations that will have the effect of slowing down the majority of individuals' ability to understand that they have the ability to tap into all the power that they need. But they cannot slow it down forever, because it has a momentum, a critical mass that is being reached. And therefore, the idea of focusing too strongly on the idea of the so-called existing political power structure, and economical power structure, and religious power structure, and technological power structure... the paradox is that focusing on them too strongly actually gives them more power. Understanding what true power is will allow for the siphoning off and the redistribution of the idea of true power, so that in the future, what you now feel you require a governmental body to undertake will be replaced by simply an organizational body that will allow the energies that are available to be given where they are required. In that sense, it would be more like a networking system. But first and foremost, your people must understand on a personal level that everyone is already as powerful as he or she needs to be to create whatever reality they prefer, regardless of anyone else's intentions. Because each of you is your own reality. The more individuals that know that, then the less likely it will be that anyone else will be able to impact or affect you in any way, shape, or form that is not conducive to the vibrational reality that you have set up for yourself. Does this make sense to you? 
**Audience Member 8:** Imminently. Uh, but it did lead to one more question. You tell the lady over here that she should not be pursuing, if I understood correctly, not to be pursuing the changing of attitudes in others? 
**Bashar:** Yes, for this only reinforces the same thing that they are doing to you. The idea is that you don't have to enforce the changing of an attitude if you understand what true power is and radiate as a living example that absolute conviction and certainty. Then those that are not of your frequency cannot find you. And those that are not of your frequency and want to change will be able to, because they will see in you an example to match. That's why you don't have to force anything on anyone. 
**Audience Member 8:** Well, I wouldn't force anything on anyone, but by presenting facts and information, doesn't that help empower other individuals? 
**Bashar:** Yes, but the idea is that we also understand that it must be done in a balanced way, so as to not perpetuate the fear that the controlling structure would prefer to exist. 
**Audience Member 8:** Exactly. 
**Bashar:** Thank you. So it must be simply done in a very balanced way, and they must not be seen in a sense as an enemy, and they must not be judged in that way, nor invalidated. For then you're only reinforcing their level of energy. But information as information, thus then with advice for how to use the information to educate, to balance, and to self-empower? 
**Audience Member 8:** Yes, by all means. 
**Bashar:** Information is important. 

### Q&A 9: Overcoming Frustration, Assigning Meaning, and the "Fairytale" of the Car Stereo
**Audience Member 9:** Pass the two, pass the baton. Hi Bashar, and you good day. Uh, I've always wanted... my sense of highest joy always come through acting, and being on TV as an actor. And although I know that the world denies me nothing, sometimes the frustration happens because sometimes I feel Hollywood does deny me. 
**Bashar:** All right. Some things. That's not why the frustration comes. The frustration comes from your definitions that their actions bring to light. If you have buttons that can be pushed, someone will oblige you. So what they are showing is that you have these buttons. When you don't have them anymore, try as they may, their button-pushing attempts won't be able to affect you, because you will not be creating the effect within yourself of their actions. So don't get frustrated when you don't get the part. All right, now listen, listen. This is a very delicate thing to understand, very important. If you do get frustrated, I am not telling you to bury your feelings and deny them. I'm not saying then, "Oh, you shouldn't be frustrated, don't get frustrated." If you are, you are. The point is, you don't have to be, if you understand what definition you're carrying in your personality that allows you to react to the situation with frustration, and you can change that definition, then you won't react with frustration. You will react with inspiration, and see a path you never saw before, and take it. But if you do react with frustration, don't deny it; invite it. Find out why that was your reaction. Feel it, dig deep into it, immerse yourself in it, so that the experience of the emotion can bring you into the understanding of where that emotion comes from. 
Understand that everything that you do is a choice. All your choices are based on motivation. You will only find that there is a polarity in motivation: you will either move toward what you perceive to be more pleasurable, or you will move away from what you perceive to be more painful. That is the only motivation any of you have for doing anything that you choose to do. It's very simple. But listen: we said you will move toward what you perceive to be more pleasurable, and what you perceive to be more painful you will move away from. You can replace the word "perceive" with "define." What you define something as is what determines the motivations, that determines your choices. So every reaction or response you have to anything is based on the fact that you have defined it to mean a certain thing. Without that meaning, you will have no reaction. Do you follow me? As an actor, you would know this: if you don't have meaning, if you don't have motivation, you can't act. You don't know why you're doing what you're doing, you have no way to feel the part. You follow me? 
So it's that way with life. If you understand that everything you feel is a secondary response to something you believe or define to be true first, then you will understand that the way to allow yourself to experience a different feeling in any given situation is to change the definitional belief that created the feeling to begin with. And the change in the definitional belief will bring about a different feeling. So I remind you of this axiom: are you paying attention? 
**Audience Member 9:** Yes. 

**Bashar:** No situation has built-in meaning. All situations are fundamentally neutral. They mean nothing. The meaning you have been taught to assign automatically, unconsciously, instantaneously, is what determines the effect you get out of the situation. If you give yourself a moment of pause, if you train yourself and practice when something occurs, taking a moment to pause and say: "Now, before I react, before I believe that there is a reason here for me to be frustrated, I will first allow myself to remember that this circumstance means zero." You may be able to recognize that someone else may have an agenda, but it doesn't matter what their intention toward you is. You are your own reality. You are your own reality. 
I will do the story one more time very quickly, so that again you can apply this idea in your pragmatic, practical reality. There is an individual, real person. Your planet loves music. Wanted to buy the best possible stereo for his automobile he could possibly get. Had his sights on one in particular that was very expensive, top-of-the-line, highest quality. Loved music so much, had to hear the music in the automobile with the absolute best fidelity, nothing less would do. Didn't have quite enough money for that particular model. Followed his joy, followed his excitement, did the best he could, bought the next most expensive stereo and had it installed, because that's all he could do. He did the best he could to follow his joy. Couldn't get this far, so he went as far as he could. Still acted to the best of his ability on his joy. Put the stereo in the car. One week later, the car is broken into, the stereo is stolen. 
What are your choices here? Frustration, yes. Anger, yes. Oh poor me, yes. Everything's going wrong, yes. Or what he did. Because by that time he knew he had a choice. "I can react negatively. I can assume that this theft has negative meaning. Yes, I can recognize that the thief himself or herself may have had a negative intention toward me. Maybe, maybe not. We can examine that later. But the idea is that it could have been defined as negative, but the individual didn't choose to do so." The individual chose—had practiced long enough to say: "All right, wait a minute. Pause. This means nothing. It's just a series of props. It's just an event. Even though I don't intellectually understand how this is positive, I know, and thus will behave as if I absolutely believe beyond a shadow of a doubt that it must be positive. Why do I know this? Because I say so. Because there's nothing in the universe to contradict me." That's what he said. 

And so, as he kept this state of being, instead of succumbing to fear and frustration and anger, he then went about the typical things that many of you do in such a circumstance: filing what you call your insurance claims. And the insurance company said, "All right, we can see that when the radio was removed, there was some damage done to the dashboard area. And so we will give you not only enough money to replace the unit, but we will give you enough money to repair the damage." All right, fair enough. And so he goes off to the repair place. They look at the damage and they say, "Well, you know, it looks very bad, but because of the material that you call vinyl that the damage was done to, I think it can be repaired quite easily." They took what you call a little hot air blower, put it on the vinyl, and as soon as it heated up, snap, it went right back to its original shape. They said, "That was so easy, no charge." 

Now, the individual is standing there with an amount of money to replace the unit that was stolen, and an amount of money to repair the damage that he doesn't have to pay. And together, guess what? It was exactly, to the penny, what he needed to buy the original unit he wanted and couldn't afford. Fairytale? You tell me this is the way life works when you remain in the state that allows it to work that way. Because what you put in is what you get out. Had he decided to be frustrated and angry about it and see it as a negative thing, he probably might have attracted himself to a repair company that would definitely have charged him, maybe even charged him more than what would be fair. But by staying in the state, he attracted synchronistically into his reality all the things that were required to allow him to fulfill the original joy, the original vision, the original excitement, even though he had no idea how he was going to get there. Even though he had no idea that these circumstances that unfolded before him were the path of least resistance, the shortest route to get there, and would never in his wildest dreams have ever defined it as such. That's what it turned out to be, because he allowed it. He let it become that. Because that's the way your life works when you stay in the state called Grace. 

**Audience Member 9:** How do you know, uh, if the path you're on, the one that you want to achieve to get the sense of highest joy, how do you know when it's the right or the wrong? 

**Bashar:** Told. When you, at any given moment, keep it simple. Ask yourself at any given moment: out of all the things I have available to me to take some action on, out of all the options available to me, out of all the choices available to me right now, which one contains the highest amount of excitement that I have the greatest degree of capability of taking an action on? That one, take it to the best of your ability as far as you can. When you can take it no further, then same question applies: now what is the option, what is the opportunity, what is the circumstance I have the highest degree of ability to take action on that contains the highest degree of excitement? No matter what it is, take it. And take it, and take it, and take it. No matter how it looks, whether you think it looks like it's connected to where you think you're supposed to be going or not. If it contains the highest amount of joy, it's the joy that's telling you it is the path of least resistance. It is the shortest route, and it is the compass needle pointing unerringly toward the creation of more abundance and joy for you, no matter what it is, no matter how it looks. 

Remember, it's not about making a change within yourself so that you will see a change in the outside, because that's conditional love. It's about making a change within yourself that you know is a change, and then behaving as if you know you have changed, even if the outside still looks the same. It's the way you respond to what's going on that lets your reality know you have really changed, and are not just changing on the condition that "my reality will follow, so I'll be happy when." If you simply are choosing to be happy, happy because that's what you prefer to be for no reason, then your reality will know you mean it, and it will show it to you. But if you put, as you say in your language, the cart before the horse, and only make these changes because of what you want to see happen in your reality, then paradoxically you will actually cut yourself off, by simply being in the state itself, in which all things that are who you are can then manifest the unlimited possibilities. By surrendering just for the sake of surrendering, then who you are—the unlimited possibilities that you are—will unerringly start to pop up in your life as synchronous reflections, to allow you to express your joy in the ways that are most you, whatever that may be at any given moment. 


**Bashar:** Allow yourselves to surrender who you think you're supposed to be. Be who you are, because who you are is the miracle of creation. Who you are is the event of creation. And all you have to do to experience the miracle is be yourself, because it will be a reflection of who you are. 
