---
heading: Part 1
title: "Dolphins and Whales"
description: ""
c: "purple"
date: 1998-01-30
icon: Bashar
weight: 228
showdate: true
---



### **Introduction: Dolphins, Whales, and Consciousness**

**Bashar:** We have been requested to delve into the idea notion of the species upon your planet you may call dolphin and or whale. First of all, we would desire to underline that from our perspective, your civilization, your planet bears two sentient species, two self-aware species. Not that what you call your animal consciousness is not self-aware, but they are self-aware in a very different way from the way you are self-aware as what you may call a thinking being. Not that dolphins think in the same way that you do, but they are the same type of soul in that sense, the same type of consciousness in that sense, simply in a differentiated form from yours.

The idea from our point of view, if I may use the term alien for a moment, as you use for us, is that from our perspective, your planet has two, not one, two, alien species upon it. Land, human, and water, citation, dolphin, and whale. The idea is that you are reincarnationally interchangeable. Many individuals that you understand as human have had dolphin life. Many individuals you understand as dolphin have had human life. These ideas have gone on for many thousands of your years of counting and have been forgotten by the human species upon your planet for many thousands of your years and now is being remembered by your species.

Your dolphin has never forgotten and has from time to time endeavored to interact with you in the only level that you would allow such interaction to take place as a mass consciousness as a society and that is in your dream reality in your dream state where you are more open to telempathic transmission to telepathic communication. Because of the way you have created your society to be so highly focused within its consciousness, many times you will not allow those levels of communication to occur within you in a conscious state. So when you are in an unconscious state, you do open up many of those areas of communication. You do drop many of the shields and the filters and the barriers that your society has constructed around your consciousness and do allow such communication to take place so that they will not have completely lost touch with you. So that you will not have completely lost touch with them.

Now dolphin consciousness while very active in the dream reality that you understand to be your dream reality also understand dream reality to be quite a different thing. Some of what you call your writers and artists upon your planet and those individuals who simply have allowed themselves to be sensitive to the idea have, as you say, telepathically picked up upon the notion that the ultimate whale consciousness is very strongly intertwined with dream reality. When we talk about dream reality, we are not talking about what is unreal. For to us dream reality is very real and in many ways is actually more real than what you call physiological reality. In many cases what you term physical reality is actually very much more the dream than what you call the dream reality.

The idea is that you are a non-physical consciousness to begin with. In a sense you are already spirit. There is, to paraphrase a quotation that exists upon your planet, an idea that can perhaps help underline and illustrate this better. We perceive that the information from some individuals that exist upon your planet could be formulated in the following way: You are not human beings having a spiritual experience. You are spiritual beings having a human experience. Dolphins are spiritual beings having a dolphin experience. We are spiritual beings having a Essassani experience. But that is the name of our civilization. We are all the same type of spirit. We simply manifest ourselves in various ways according to the different ways that a spirit can manifest itself within the dimension you call physiological reality. But all of these different manifestations in physiological reality are simply all contained within the overall ability of spirit itself to manifest in any way, shape or form it can imagine itself to be. This spirit level, this spirit dimension is more truly the natural dimension in which you exist. And on that level is where you are truly interconnected with your dolphin fees, your co-inhabitants upon your planet.

Now this dream time the idea that you call dream reality that is where in a sense you are where you I shall say go back to when you create an unconscious state for yourself physiologically you begin to pull yourself back into the idea of dream time which is your natural state. There is not the notion of time and space so much in the same way in dream time as it is in physiological reality. So you are very strongly telepathically interconnected and interwoven with many other levels of spirit in that reality. And therefore the dolphins have never forgotten this, have never separated themselves truly from it in their conscious recognition. Even though they do project themselves in a physiological way, they have, as you say, remained in touch. So dream time for them and for certain members of your human species is a very real reality and not something that they consign to nonreality.

You have in your society the idea that something is just as you say just your imagination as if it is not real in that way. There may be certain things that you call fantasy that are not necessarily immediately applicable to your physiological dimension not necessarily immediately needed to be realized or manifested physically. But that does not mean they are not real. You cannot imagine non-existence. Anything your imagination can conceive of is somewhere somehow somewhere on some level of dimensionality a real reality to someone. An experiential reality to someone. So the idea of dolphins is that they truly live in their dream reality and that the idea of physical reality is not really quite so limited, not really quite so removed from dream reality as you as humans have created it to be. They understand that physical reality is simply one of the ways that you can dream. The only real difference between what you call physical reality and dream reality is that you have the definition that physical reality is somehow much more real than the dream reality. And because you have given it that definition, it seems to be so isolated and so different from what you call a dream. And therefore, you have the actual polarity appearance of your dreams being less real.

This idea is what the dolphin consciousness is attempting to assist you to realize by acting within your dreams with you, by interacting with you. They are allowing you bit by bit to realize that your physical reality is just a dream in that sense. But that is what reality is. And you can create that reality to be any type of reality you wish. That you can live the dream you prefer rather than continuing as you have for many thousands of years to assume that your physical reality is something you really have no control over that it is simply the way it is and that you have to settle for the idea of the suffering and the pain that you have experienced in your life all the notions of suffering and pain that you have experienced in your life are simply from the definitions that your society has given the physical reality the dolphin consciousness basically lives in ecstasy and they would desire that you learn that you can as well.

Now, dolphin consciousness also transfers itself to many different realms just as you do. But again, they are conscious of it while you are mostly unconscious of doing this. They also inhabit many dimensional realms and interact telepathically with many other civilizations and have been doing so for quite some time. They have quite in a sense in your terminology an interactive society in that way. It is simplified in certain terms, but it is also very complexly intertwined. They have many different notions that are quite different from what you have as land humans. You already know about their propensity with sound in that way. But understand that sound for them, the sounds they give off, the sounds they receive are quite enjoyable on many different levels that you as have yet to understand. They truly see sound as a shape. And in that way can therefore create sonic sculptures for their own appreciation. As they interact, they truly create entire sonic environments that in many ways to them is every bit as real as the physiological objects with which you populate your reality.

The idea also is that within these sonic environments within these bubbles of sound, they create transference stations that tap into other dimensions of reality. They create interdimensional doorways just through vibration alone as your society knew how to do many thousands of years ago but have forgotten. These are some of the things the dolphins can teach you once again. Also they have now that you are exploring the idea of your higher self as you expand your consciousness outward now that you realize you have a higher self dolphins have a manifestation physiological manifestation of their higher self right on your own planet and it is called the whale. The idea of the whale is that it is representative of oversouls many dolphin souls combined into one higher self. It is simply that their environment of what you call your ocean makes it possible for them to physiologically manifest the higher self in that way. Whereas your land environment because of your physiological gravity does not make that kind of manifestation as likely. And therefore it is up to you as the physiological humans you are to manifest the aspect of your higher self through the notion of the body that you have by accelerating that body upward into a more rarified and less physical state. They can manifest it through a physiological state. You manifest it through an acceleration of the physical state that you already have. Not that they do not accelerate as well. But when you associate with the whale upon your planet, you are dealing directly with a form of mass consciousness and it can trigger many things within each and every one of you about your own personal association to your own higher self and your own collective consciousness upon your planet so that you can begin to function more as one unified society even as they do the whales and the dolphins.

One point we would very much like to remind you at this time of however is that the notion of functioning as a unified society as a mass consciousness in no way, shape or form means you lose your individuality. This is what you may call a metaphysical myth that has grown up upon your planet through many misunderstandings. The idea that to have a unified consciousness, it has to be at the cost of your individual consciousness. In fact, paradoxically enough, it is exactly the opposite. The idea is that you will have the unification that the dolphins have. You will have the unification of your entire planet when each and every one of you as an individual is the strongest and most stably balanced individual you can create yourselves to be because unity is the product of the granting of equality and validity to the infinite diversity that you have created within your culture. It is not the idea of becoming bland in that sense. It is not the idea of wiping out individuality. It is the strengthening of it but also at the same time the validating of all other types of individuality that will create the same type of unity experienced by the dolphin the whale consciousness upon your planet.

Also now because you are expanding your consciousness and you are aware of the fact that there may be many other what you call us extraterrestrial societies, alien society that you could be dealing with, that you could be in contact with. We would remind you once again that you have an alien society on your very own backyard, right in your own oceans. And that as soon as individuals in your human community begin to truly blend and meld with individuals in the dolphin and the whale community, you will then truly be on the road in a very accelerated way to creating the one unified planet that will then be able to operate on a vibrational level that will make it easy for you to interact with other whole civilizations such as our own. In no way, shape or form is the idea that you are not functioning that way meant to make you feel any less than us. Meant in any way, shape or form as a judgment against you? You are simply the type of beings you have created yourselves to be. You are simply exploring the ideas that you have created for yourselves. In our eyes, you are every bit as equal and every bit as powerful as any being within reality. No matter whether you are exploring limitation and negativity or ecstasy through positive understanding, you are transforming as all beings transform. And the dolphins and the whales can assist you in this greatly by one fundamental methodology. Allow them, allow them, allow them to remind you how to play, to remind you of your true essence, of your true spirit. For they know how to live in ecstasy. And they are very very willing to teach you. Feel them in that sense. Feel the vibration and interact with them as much as you can in their environment and allow them to simply reflect back to you how your society can ecstatically create a reality its desires rather than feeling it must be at the mercy of what you call a segregated environment.

Are you all following along so far as this translating into your language adequately?

**Audience:** Yes.

**Bashar:** The idea in that sense shall be within these interactions. Therefore, to allow you, each and every one of you as humans to feel within yourself this interconnectedness you have to all life, not only upon your own planet, but on many other planets and in many other dimensions of experience. We will take this opportunity to thank you very very much and to express our deepest gratitude and allowing us to interact with you in this way. For right now you are choosing by creating these interactions with us to function as representatives and ambassadors of your society. Make no mistake about that. That is what you are right now cuz there are many many many individuals on this side listening in telepathically. We thank you for allowing me to be representative of our collective of civilizations which we call the Association of Worlds. And we remind you that bit by bit and day by day, these interactions between us create more ability for our society to interact face to face. But we remind you once again that the easiest way to do that is to begin to interact with yourselves as equals first. Because only when your planet is of a vibration where you know all is equal do you make it possible for others who know the same thing and operate on the same level to be able to interact with you. We thank you for this opportunity. We thank you for the gift of experiencing your consciousness. For to us it is a gift. It allows us to see through you that many more ways that the infinite has of expressing itself within the creation that it is. Every single being in creation is simply one more way that All That Is has of creating itself to be.


###  Zeta Reticuli, Abductions, and Hybrids**

**Questioner:** you stated at that time that the Zetas are um the interactions with the Zetas are creating a hybrid and that's what has manifest on Essassani. 

**Bashar:** There are many levels to this interconnection. We would desire to bring other individuals up to date. Zeta is your name for a particular star system, Zeta Reticulum. 

The civilization that occupies that stellar system has interacted with your civilization from time to time and is responsible for abduction phenomena. 

We prefer to call it as temporary detainment rather than obstruction because these things are done through absolute agreement even though you may not be conscious of your end of the agreement and they are being done for many reasons.

One is to balance many of the ideas that are shall we say offkilter between your society and their society. They can learn many things about individuality from you since they already operate on a mass consciousness level. You can learn many things about a mass conscious operation from them. 

Since you already operate on an individual level so strongly, you serve each other in many ways. And through these so-called abduction interactions, they are assisting your society to learn to integrate its fear to face its fear within itself. For the fear that many individuals have had have experienced in those interactions with them is not because of those interactions directly but because of what it is within yourselves that is brought to the surface of your consciousness because of the energy of those beings.

One of the things that is going on is crossbreeding in a certain sense since their society at this time has shall we say in their evolution lost the ability to propagate themselves in that way and they recognize that this type of sterility is actually causing a sterilization of their entire system of their entire society. By being revitalized by your society, they are creating what you would call a hybrid in that sense that does to some degree represent what shall they call the best qualities of both your society and their society. These hybrid creations, these crossing over, these blending, these meldings between your respective societies are very strongly responsible for the laying of the foundation of the society that we call our own since we are physiologically speaking exactly halfway in appearance between their society and your society. So yes, it is responsible though there are many other connections as well. The idea is very strongly connected to the interbreeding that is going on between your society and theirs as to what created the foundation of our civilization which we call Essassani in another dimensional space and time.

**Questioner:** the individuals who are experiencing those abductions.  Is there some way in which they can become conscious of their agreement and yes to certainly make the experience more pleasant because yes 

the integration of their own fear the facing of their fear the facing of the things that your society has taught them not to look at will allow them to become conscious of anything they want to be also some of the individuals who have already gone through those experiences who are now willing to share their experiences with other individuals through what you may call your literature are being of great assistance in allowing other individuals in reading about their experiences to assimilate those fears within themselves and integrate that idea so that they will not have to fear from this point forward. There is much assimilation going on now especially because certain individuals have been willing to share their experiences with all of you.

**Bashar:** Yes. But at any time, the thing that can allay these fears most easily is when an individual truly allows themselves to understand that there is absolutely nothing within themselves they could ever discover that could not be put to a positive use. When they cease to fear the unknown, understanding that they have a choice in determining what it is that comes out of that unknown. They have a choice in determining whether a positive or a negative manifestation is what they get out of all their explorations in life. When they understand it is in their hands to know and to create a positive reality and not a negative one. When they are taught once again that they are in control of their reality and are at the mercy of it, they will fear nothing. And no interaction, no matter on what level it takes place, will generate the kind of fear that these interactions have generated on your planet. But they must take place because you have agreed to the timing of these ideas. And you have agreed that if you do not allow the fear to come to the surface in a natural way that you will in that sense have your buttons pushed so that it will be processed by you one way or another. Understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. Does this answer your question sufficiently? Um is there some other aspect you wish to specifically explore? Well, what I what else I'd like to specifically explore is if what you say is correct that it's bringing up issues that they have to work on. My understanding at least when I've read the books, it brings up fear in me and I'm just reading it. Um that is not a point earlier. The issue of not having a choice about the interactions themselves, but they do have a choice. Well, they at least in the book they don't describe that. They experience once again allow us to remind you of what we have just said. You make these agreements whether you consciously or unconsciously remember them. The idea is to allow yourself to begin to consciously remember that these agreements have been made to have these interactions. The only reason there is fear in the way it is is because your society has created the notion that you have an unconsciousness into which you can place things you don't want to look at. You don't really have an unconsciousness. It is in your terminology simply a convenience so that you do not have to look at certain things you think will be painful. You are one consciousness. The notions that you call unconsciousness and subconsciousness are simply symbolic references to things you don't want to look at.

The idea therefore is that they made these agreements and if they have chosen to suppress many many aspects of themselves, the aspect the connection to their higher self that has made the agreement then as a physiological consciousness they will not remember until later on until they force themselves through fear perhaps to remember their connection. If fear is the only way you will bring yourselves to live in the present then that's the way you'll do it. They don't have to do it that way. But if that is the way an individual has chosen to do it, then fear can work for them just as well as joy. If you do not give joy a chance to allow you to remember these things, then fear eventually will force you to remember them because it will force you to face certain things that you may have been reluctant to fear because now it is a matter in your terminology of life and death that you must look at these things. Understand? All of this is representative of the timing that individual chose before they were even physiologically born into your society. Whether they consciously remember that or not doesn't change that that is what they chose to experience in a general terminology. There may have been many ways they could have experienced the idea and it is up to them to learn that they don't have to experience these interactions in a negative way. Again, we are doing all that we can possibly do at this time without directly interfering in your society's growth process to remind you that it does not have to be negative. Everything that can be done is being done to allay and soften your fear. The rest, however, is up to you. We cannot do it all for you. Understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. But like for instance in the interaction that Daryl described between yourself and Daryl um do you lean in dream state or the interaction of the sighting of my ship? No the first in initial interaction during the trans the first trans state or telepathically the telepathic communication where you said now that you are aware of the agreement do you choose in this moment to honor that agreement? Yes. Um what you're saying is that each of the individuals who are being abducted then can also make that choice absolutely and say thank you very much I made that choice before lifetime and now I unchoose it or it can be so done however in most cases you will find that to choose not to continue through with it will actually be against the grain of the energy you chose to be. It is a choice. But the idea also is that you will have to live with a choice. And if you make a choice that really goes against what you really desire, then that actually will turn out to be far more uncomfortable for you than any momentary fear you will be facing right now. Understand?

**Questioner:** Yeah, I guess I understand that. But I guess with some of the the interactions that I read in um the last book, they talked about how the men some men who had been abducted had um had vasectomy in order to counteract the experiments that were being done in a sense unconsciously as you say once again they chose to counteract it knowing what they were headed for but fearing it instead of understanding it. Mhm. But again, the idea that a choice was made, it does not in the greater sense necessarily change anything. The overall momentum is still there. And always remember that you are eternal beings and infinite beings. And there are many ways to experience yourself and many different opportunities in which to experience many different ideas. Ultimately, it does not really matter if an individual changes their mind in that way. Someone will volunteer. 


### Ship Experience, Saturn Ambassador, and Following Excitement**

**Questioner:** I had an experience where I I felt the presence of a ship very strongly. All right. I went into a meditation and uh immediately found my awareness up on the bridge of a ship. did you have a good time?

**Questioner:** I enjoyed it quite quite a lot.

**Bashar:** But I I have some questions about went on there. Um there may be some we can and some we cannot answer for you but proceed.

**Questioner:** All right. Uh there there were quite a few beings around dressed in sort of a a silver jumpsuit and there was one kind of a foreign looking uh female entity there kind of a gossamer gown and I was given to understand that she was an ambassador from the rings of Saturn and she was on a mission to sort of check out certain energy points on the earth.

**Bashar:** It is what is called identification. The checking out of energy points, the taking of readings is called identification to check and see what the vibratory status of your planet is to determine what the next steps are that can be taken in the assistance of the transformation. The idea of the projection that you call from your planet of Saturn is to understand of course that there is no physiological life there as you understand it, but there are interdimensional consciousnesses associated with every planet in your system. But only in the physiological dimension do you inhabit that idea that you call physical reality. But you were experiencing them in the astral realm as you understand that terminology.

**Questioner:** All right. I I was also given to understand that I was expected there and I I want to know why and I want to know what what she uh discerned from what she the information she gathered from the energy points and what um decisions were made that.

**Bashar:** All right. May I ask you a question? It will be to some degree though we will paraphrase it a similar question that you want to ask in that astral state. Are you doing in your life what excites you the most or not?

**Questioner:** Someday.

**Bashar:** Why only someday? Why not all the time?

**Questioner:** All right then that is the reading that was taken. The understanding of what you are ready for. For many of you actually refuse ecstasy. And in that sense, when you do not allow yourself to realize that you can do what excites you the most with full integrity all the time, then to some degree you are resisting still your natural self and choosing to buy into realities that for some reason you do not prefer but continue to live. May I ask you, it is up to you. You're going to have to answer. This will be personal. May I ask you why you are not doing the thing that excites you all the time? Can you discover a reason for why you would not do what excites you all the time? What notions, what definitions of reality have you bought into that would make it seem as if you had to do something other than what really excites you?

**Questioner:** Things my mother told me.

**Bashar:** Is that a guess? In many levels it is true because all of you receive much instruction from what you call your parents and you buy into many levels of reality that you do not even allow yourselves to be consciously aware you have bought into. So in that sense your answer is quite correct and valid. However, it does not have to continue as an excuse. If you are aware that you may have ideas and notions and definitions within you that you no longer prefer, then you do not have to exhibit them any longer. It is up to you. Now, perhaps going about it another way will allow it to be a little more easy for you. Can you tell me one thing that is extremely exciting to you that you do not do as often as you would really like to?

**Questioner:** Dancing.

**Bashar:** All right, the thing. Now, why do you not do it as often as you would like to? What holds you back? Use your imagination. What do you believe would happen if you did do it as often as you wanted to?

**Questioner:** I would [not be able to] pay the rent.

**Bashar:** Ah, thank you very much. We have had this discussion many times with your civilization. The idea of not understanding that your direct and natural abundance is actually connected to the thing that gives you the most joy. Many of you don't understand it because you have been taught that it is not so. But you see, the thing that excites you the most is your physical translation of the vibratory energy that represents most truly who you are. And therefore, if it truly is who you are, when you follow your excitement with all the integrity at your command, you will always be allowed to attract into your life all the opportunities and circumstances that will give you an effortless ability to do what you really like to do and at the same time will bring you all the abundance you require to continue to do that thing. In whatever way, shape or form you require that abundance. Do understand that abundance doesn't always necessarily mean money. That is in your society one of the tools that can represent abundance. It is just as valid as any other tool. However, it isn't always the only one and it isn't very often even the easiest one. The one that represents the path of least resistance. The one that represents the path of your truest self. Sometimes it will, sometimes it won't. If you insist that that's the only way that will represent abundance, then you shut down all the other avenues through which other types of abundance could be coming to you because the idea is that you could be supported in many other ways other than what you think are the ways you have to be supported.

Therefore, we will share with all of you at this time our definition of abundance. And it goes as follows. Abundance, the ability, Are you all paying attention? Abundance the ability ability to do what you want to do when you want to do it. Period. Notice I did not say anything about how you acquire that ability. I didn't say anything about money. It can be there. But it is simply the ability in whatever way, shape or form it comes to do the thing you want to do when you want to do it.

Now as an example the idea you have brought up we will use your rank as we say we understand the notion we do not have it but we understand the notion. The idea simply is also to realize that you belong that you belong in your society that you do not have to quote unquote earn your place in existence. You don't have to justify your existence by necessarily doing things that other individuals think you ought to be doing. You can find your place, know your place, the place that is naturally or by being your natural self. And by being your natural self, you will attract whatever type of abundance you need to allow you to continue to be your natural self. Because the universe always supports the strongest belief you have about what you think you're capable of being. Therefore, the idea of having a place to live could be provided for you in a very different way, in a number of different ways. If at any given moment you need the idea, the tool, the symbol you call money in order to maintain your place to live, it will come to you. An opportunity to get it will come to you automatically, effortlessly. If however at any given moment you don't need that something else will come and for you to sit and worry that you are not going to be able to support yourself in that way stops it from coming because you're focused on a particular detail that does not necessarily represent who and what you are as your natural self. Everything that has to do with you being able to be who it is you want to be is a detail that is subordinate to the ultimate goal of being yourself. You don't have to focus so strongly on the detail. A little bit of planning here and there, a little bit of foresight, a little bit of reasoning here and there, a little bit of conscious recognition of how certain things fall together is all well and good. But your society is absolutely focused on the idea of having to know every single step before you take it. That's what makes the journey take so long. You have to know every single detail. You need more time in order to look at all those things. As soon as you understand the holistic interaction that the details will automatically be there for the goal you have set up, if you let them automatically come, then you will see them automatically floating into your life through the ostices of what your society calls coincidence. And I'll no accident. When we say coincidence, we mean literally that coincident synchronicity. The idea simply is that everything is interconnected. When you fully live the vibrational frequency of who you know yourself to be, only the things that are representative and reflective of that vibrational frequency can come into your life. If you have things occurring in your life that you don't prefer, that you don't like, it's because they are representative of the vibrational frequency of the strongest belief you have about what your life is capable of doing. Understand? Is this helping?

**Questioner:** Yeah. Thank you for answering the question. Thank you for asking him and being willing to understand that it doesn't have to be looked at. This is for all of you. It does not have to be looked at as a big step. Oh, giving up what is safe. Taking a chance in doing a risk in doing what I really want to do. You don't have to label it that way. And if you don't, it won't be experienced as a risk. Very often these things are experienced as risks because you think of them that way because you think you have to have something to fall back on just in case. What you really want doesn't happen. If you say that about what you really want, how much faith do you have in what you really want. The idea is to understand it is a matter of unconditional trust. And now in many cases when we say unconditional trust in what you really want. Many times we hear a collective psychic groan from many of you. Oh no unconditional trust. Everyone knows how difficult it is to trust all the time unconditionally. All right. That's another definition our society has. However, from our point of view, you have absolutely none of you at any time in your lives ever had any difficulty in trusting absolutely infinitely and unconditionally at every single moment in your life. What do you mean? Some of you say there are times I have great doubt about myself. Well, yes, that may be so. But you see, you define doubt as a lack of trust and we define doubt as a trust, an unconditional trust in the negative reality. So it's just a matter of whether you prefer to put your unconditional trust in a negative reality, a negative belief, or whether you prefer to put your unconditional trust in a positive belief, in a positive reality. Both will work for you. It's up to you. That's all it takes. Understand you have never ever ever not trusted fully. So when you talk about the idea of doing something that really excites you, you aren't learning to do something when you use infinite trust that you have never done before. You aren't learning something new. You are simply redirecting the same degree of infinite trust you have always used to create whatever reality you have gotten. It is simply that you are now putting it in a direction you prefer. Consciously acting instead of putting it in a direction you don't prefer unconsciously reacting. Understand the difference. Does that assist you?

**Questioner:** Well, thank you very much for expressing and expanding your own notion and definition of abundance.

***

### **Topic 3: Fear of Sharing Experiences and "Insanity"**

**Questioner:** There a being called David who connected me with a ship. All right. And last week I had a dream of him. All right. When I begin to share this experience with anyone, I experience a level of fear in my body that I feel as though I'm going to shake out of my body and I don't know what it is that I'm afraid of. Can you...

**Bashar:** Are you afraid of the judgment of others?

**Questioner:** No.

**Bashar:** All right. Are you afraid of judgments of yourself?

**Questioner:** What kind? Uh, maybe.

**Bashar:** All right. Will you do me a favor?

**Questioner:** Yes. No. Maybe.

**Bashar:** Will you do me a favor?

**Questioner:** Yeah.

**Bashar:** Thank you. You don't have to. You know I will. All right. Thank you very much. Define insanity. I'm waiting. You're afraid of something you don't even have a definition of. Give it a shot. As you say, that which is beyond the norm. Beyond the norm. All right. Beyond the norm. May I ask you a personal question?

**Questioner:** Yes. No. M. Yes.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Is it your desire to be normal or natural?

**Questioner:** Natural.

**Bashar:** Thank you very much. Then your definition that what you call insanity simply means beyond the norm shouldn't necessarily carry a great deal of fear for you, should it?

**Questioner:** No.

**Bashar:** All right. Now I understand what you mean. However, if you know that your experiences in exploring other dimensional realms and levels of your consciousness can be connected to the physical realm, can be communicated to the physical realm in whatever way is important to be communicated. And that doesn't always mean you have to communicate it to other individuals. By the way, it can be a personal thing. No one necessarily expects that you must communicate it in the way you have them taught you should. However, if you know that your experiences in non-physical reality can be grounded in physical reality, then you will allow the communication lines to remain open. The idea that you call insanity on your planet is simply individuals who are experiencing other realms, other realities that are no less real than the one you call normal reality. It is simply that they have been taught that they are not allowed to communicate their experiences in a way that would reconnect them, that would ground them, that would blend the physical reality with the non-physical reality. They have shut themselves off and form closed circuits, closed loops that feed back upon themselves and perpetuate a never- ending cycle of self-enclosure and lack of communication. They become, as you say colloquially, lost in their own world. The idea simply is that if you know that you are by choice connected to the physiological reality you are in right now and by choice connecting into these other dimensional realms then also by choice you know you can maintain that connection. You can remain grounded even while you explore the higher realm and you don't ever have to worry about the idea of breaking that connection and becoming lost so to speak. There may be many individuals who will not understand what you have to say. But if you at any given moment progressing at whatever rate is comfortable for you, know that what you are assimilating serves you in a positive way and gives you more ability to serve others in your reality in a positive way. Don't worry about it. It is your worry in and of itself that causes the idea of the resistance and the shaking. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. Does this help you?

**Questioner:** Yeah, very much. Thank you very much for exploring your own life and your own connection to the infinite. Do understand. Yeah. Is a relative point of view. By the way, in the work that I'm doing in the community, I work with people who are, you know, termed insane and find themselves in hospitals. Yes. And we are creating a healing center for for them. And we're experiencing much difficulty in the face of the establishment's uh positions. All right. And I wanted to know how we could best harmonize with that energy in the community.

**Bashar:** Well, the only thing we can suggest is that you radiate to those elements that oppose you in your community the same type of unconditional love that you radiate to the individuals you are seeking to be of assistance to because it is all the same thing. The individuals you are being of assistance to have their point of view and the individuals in your community have their point of view and that is all it is point of view. Radiate the same type of unconditional love in both directions and you will allow a healing to take place as you say across the board. Understand? If you know that what you're doing is being a positive service, then as we first pointed out, don't worry about the judgment. Don't worry about the judgments of others. If you say you are having difficulty in that, then you are in fact accepting into your reality the judgment of other individuals reality. You understand?

**Questioner:** Thank you very much. Thank you.

***

### **Topic 4: Dream Magic and Physical Reality**

**Questioner:** I have a question. Oh, what? Hi, the shark. One moment. Yes. Oh, I wanted to ask you if you had any physiological siblings.

**Bashar:** No.

**Questioner:** No. Okay. Um, now I wanted to share and maybe I guess it's more like a sharing. Uh, I realized in a dream once that when I was aware that I was in a dream that I could see things that I couldn't do in a waking state, right? But I I call it magic. I still Oh, right. I still uh wouldn't allow myself to watch myself doing it. I was like hand sewing and I was running out of thread and I hate to fill the thread up. So, I kind of looked the other way and pulled my hand out and I looked back there was more strength. Yes. So now I'm realizing that this is a waking dream.

**Bashar:** Very good. We could do that here too, right?

**Questioner:** Yes, you could. As soon as you understand, as we said, that the physical reality is simply an extension of what you call the dream reality. You can when you make no discernable difference between the two, but you will do that. You will blend those two levels at whatever rate is truly comfortable for your psyche. But yes, you can.

**Questioner:** All right. Thank you. Thank you very much. I would ask you real quick if Dreamer uh would come through tonight and also it'd be really fun if you could share one of those uh songs or things you were talking about earlier that are like art for them perhaps. Although understand many of the level will not translate into your language but you may feel it as energy that perhaps will occur later.

**Bashar:** Thank you. Excellent.

***

### **Topic 5: Spacecraft Technology and Vibrational Teleportation**

**Questioner:** Um I'm interested in in the operations of your craft. All right. And I've asked you questions before um on some of the principles. Um do you do you recommend any avenue of study or any particular focus?

**Bashar:** We recommend one precise experiment. The idea once again as we have described that it is a matter of redefining the vibrational resonance of what you call the craft to match the vibrational resonance of any particular local in time and space. The particular experiment that can be done is to have two if you wish or one sphere, hollow sphere of conductive material such as your copper thin but allowed to be solidly made so that it cannot be dented in that way and have a very flat surface at least what you would call 10 of your feet in length. Place in an isolated chamber isolated from any other vibrations electromagnetic in nature other than the ones you wish to impose within the chamber. Isolate that sphere within that chamber. Place it on the flat surface at one end in every way, shape or form that your instrumentations can measure the vibrational resonance of that sphere. Discover its signature vibration. Take that sphere, move it to the other end of the flat bed. 10 ft distance. Measure it again in every way, shape, or form you can to whatever degree of sensitivity that you can. See if there is a difference between the two. Double check to make sure that the difference you may find is not the product of something leaking in that you do not want to be there. That it is not the product of the vibration of the sphere itself. Once you have isolated the difference and once you have isolated that the difference you are measuring is simply a difference within the sphere then you will begin to have the key understanding that at one location the sphere will have one particular vibration that is its signature vibration. At another location it will have a slightly different vibrational signature. That difference is representative of the vibrational signatures of the locations themselves. In other words, to us, location is not something an object exists in. It is actually a property of the object.

Then if you can recreate the other locational vibration, take whatever kind of shall we say an acoustic beam you can an acoustic dispenser you can aim that vibration the vibration of the other local the other end of the table at the sphere at this end of the table and by changing its vibration to the signature of the vibration that is at the other end of the table you should see the sphere begin to roll along the flat surface until it finds the vibrational location that its vibration now matches. Once it hits that location, it perhaps will undulate a little bit and then come to a stop because an object cannot exist in a space. It is not the signature vibration of in matching harmony and it must go to the space it is the vibration of. This is what we do with our spacecraft except we do it on a much higher frequency and much more instantaneously so that we remove ourselves from what you call your third-dimensional state. Impose the vibration upon the craft that is representative of where and when we want to go and then reinsert ourselves so to speak in the third dimensional reality at whatever point in space and time is representative of the new vibration we have imposed upon the craft. It is instantaneous teleportation in that sense.

**Questioner:** So you so you have like a library or an index of the different vibrations of the places that you do. So to speak yes what you would call the navigational computer although that will be a very colloquial way to call it. Okay. What what in in the terms of your ship, how do you define vibration?

**Bashar:** The vibration? The idea is that everything every physiological object is a specific vibration of the primal energy out of which all material reality is created. This prime energy has a background frequency, so to speak. Everything else is a manifestation of that, a variation of that. The craft when they are created are created within a certain frequency range and the vibrations that are imposed upon them then are imposed in a certain way so that the craft will then take on the frequency will inherit so to speak will be reprogrammed with that frequency. When we create the craft we set up an energy field an energy template so to speak that is of what you might call a neutral dimensionality. The craft then is receptive to frequencies that represent many different dimensional plane and will have a blank variable within the overall energy equation that it is at any given moment into that blank space can be inserted any particular variable that represent any other dimensional frequency. Understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. Yes. Okay. Now for the experiment what should be the dimensions of the of the of the plate or the underlying material that the sphere is put on?

**Bashar:** Once again, approximately at least 10 ft in length and as flat as you can make it. It need not be that wide, although we would suggest that perhaps three of your feet would be comfortable. The idea of the sphere that perhaps would benefit you greatly would be anywhere from 3 to 6 in in diameter as you understand that terminology. Hollow perhaps again of highly conductive material can be of your copper. No more than what you would call 1/16th of an inch in thickness can be of the idea you would call steel if you wish. Highly balanced as spherical as you can make it so that it has as little friction as possible between itself and the surface upon which it rests. So it will be far more receptive to the vibration that you will beam onto it.

**Questioner:** Okay. And the and the vibrations are beamed acoustically.

**Bashar:** Yes. Okay. They can also be beamed electromagnetically, but for now you can begin with an acoustic beacon.

**Questioner:** Thank you very much. Thanks. Sure. Thanks.

***

### **Topic 6: Sonic Environments and Interdimensional Doorways**

**Questioner:** I would like to explore this idea of the sonic environments as you were talking about them before. All right. It's been my experience that both with people and with dolphins that sound does create that uh interdimensional doorway. Yes. And in my experience that it's mostly functioned as a dissolving kind of energy for the structures. We do hope it is in that sense truly a universal soul. Yes. So in my in my uh newer fascination you create more with the energy create environment. Yes. Although I understand dissolving is a necessary portion of creation. I was wondering if you could possibly provide any guidelines as to ways to use the sound to create environments. Yes. In a more physio physicalized version in our density.

**Bashar:** One way which we have suggested is to understand that since each object has its own signature vibration, if you can code that signature vibration into some sort of an acoustic beacon, you can code in a difference in the following manner. Let us say for purposes of that you would call construction for this was done in the past in your civilization and you have forgotten how. If you take an object such as what you would call a stone block and you gauge once again its vibration in a particular local and then its vibration in another local the local that would represent its final resting place in a completed structure. Then if you have all the components that would go into the completed structure and you beam upon them they acoustic vibration that represents the vibration of their final resting place. They will all simply float into place, interlock exactly how they need to and build the structure sonically. You understand? That is one way you can use that idea to give a physiological demonstration of how it can be done.

However, in terms of creating energy gates, we would refer you to what you simply call many of the pieces of your classical music, the ones that inspire great harmonic resonance within your physiological form. For they are utilizing vibrational patterns that are reminiscent and representative of the mathematical ratios of the vibrations of time and space itself. That's why they have become in your recognition classical pieces of music because they touch most strongly and most pristinely and precisely on those particular mathematical ratios. Explore those mathematical ratios in any way, shape, or form you can, visually, auditorially, and discover how they overlap. Using them, you can create a series of harmonic patterns that can truly literally physiologically electromagnetically open dimensional doorways. Understand?

**Questioner:** Um, yes. A couple things. I wasn't clear about what you meant by acoustic beam.

**Bashar:** There can be what for lack of a better term perhaps are called acoustic projectors or lasers. Although laser term in your language refers to a light phenomena. The idea is that certain designs of whistle certain designs of instrument will actually direct sonic vibrations in a coherent beam and not radiate out in all directions. You understand?

**Questioner:** So it's the radiating out in all directions that's more of the dissolving aspect of the energy and it's the focusing aspect that would then create a more uh like I said physicalized version.

**Bashar:** Yes. Because you see the idea of the dolphin consciousness is that they can truly project they can focus the idea of their sonic vibrations and in so doing they can create a concentrated area where they can create a physiological result a physiological standing wave simply by the crossing over of many acoustic beams. Now the idea also in a sense is that focusing that way depending upon the frequency can actually create a stronger dissolving than the idea of a general radiation because you are focusing it on one area creating a concentration in that area and there is a greater breakdown of the dimension in that area. You are creating something that creates literally a reality bubble a bubble that touches into every dimension of space and time. Understand?

**Questioner:** Um not totally. I think where I'm confused is that I believe you're giving me more tech uh technological information based on um material and my own experience and fascination that's been with using my own body as the instrument.

**Bashar:** Let me put it this way in this analogy. You are familiar with the idea of some of the individuals in the area on your planet called Tibet who use sonic vibration and focus it by forming what you would call a semi circle or a circle. They understand that by forming a semi circle or a circle and creating with instruments certain vibrational frequency they are creating that bubble into which a biological being can be immersed and therefore become in touch electromagnetically and telepathically with many other dimensions of their consciousness. You understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. Does that answer your question sufficiently? Um yes. And is there another uh purpose isn't quite the right word, but is there another I'll use a purpose than only opening up those interdimensional doorways.

**Bashar:** What I'm what I'm focusing you can restructure physiological matter in your own dimension as well. By doing that you can dissolve the atomic structure of physiological matter in your own dimension and rearrange it even to the point depending upon the frequency of transmuting it in your terminology from one element to another.

**Questioner:** Okay. Uh is the what I experienced in terms of the net or the matrix which then can crystallize yet it seems somewhat uh not either ready or not enough preparation or to some degree...

**Bashar:** That is correct. You can continue in your terms to practice. Another idea, another manifestation is that when you have created, shall we say, a solid enough medium when there is also a large electromagnetic component within that sonic vibration, within that sonic bubble, other ideas, other consciousnesses from other dimensional realms can crystallize physiologically within that bubble. This is something we do within our own society as well. Three individuals spaced equally apart, focused into the center, can create an electromagnetic atmosphere, so to speak, a thickening of the electromagnetic interdimensional atmosphere you would call ethereal medium. In that ethereal medium, a being that does not have corporeal form can take a physical form temporarily if they so desire to manifest themselves to facilitate different levels of communication or simply perhaps for the sake of what you would call art. Something like something like holomics that would be to some degree a light sculptor.

**Questioner:** Yes. Okay. Thank you very much.

***

### **Topic 7: Whale Connections and Past Lives**

**Questioner:** Yes. Um it's very nice to be in your presence again and yours as well with you about a year ago with Phoenix. All right. One orbit ago. Yes. Uh, I'd like to talk about the whales. Go right ahead. I'll pay Rapid. Thank you. I've been told at other channelings that I've had um other lifetimes with the whales. I have a very strong emotional attachment with the whales. I'd like to know if you could give me any kind of information about a time when I may have been with them and how it would pertain to today with me.

**Bashar:** You have been with them both as human and all of them. First of all, so you have a great deal of familiarity of the actual environment in which they exist. That is a part of the familiarity for you. You have had lives wherein you have hunted them for food as well. Although now you can understand that this does not have to be perceived as something you must process as guilt. The idea simply was at a time natural for you and the whale understood. Also, you have very strong connections into what you would call your Japanese framework in certain lives, wherein you related very strongly to certain ideas of all that way of life and understood it as a reflection of some of the codes of conduct that you were following in your own life. For in many cases, there are specific references we have made to the idea that what you call your orca or killer whale is actually the samurai and the sorcerer of the sea. The idea is that it represents a strong polarity and you are examining many ideas in many lives. Now bringing polarities together, bringing your pendulum swings together into a center point of balance. And in examining those polarities, you are reflecting some of the aspects of that warrior path but in a peaceful way. You identify with their conviction. You identify with their strength and with the magnitude of understanding the magnitude of connection they have to other dimensional realms.

One moment. There were some very strong interactions within what you call Atlantean times and Lemurian times for you as well. There have also in our perception been very strong interactions within what you call the continent of Africa especially in southern portions though you have had also lives in the northern portions but those were connected to other ideas at the time but there have been many notions of sailing on vessels for you as well and the recognition that there was some kind of communication going on even then even though at the time your society did not believe in such. You have spent many hours upon the ocean in that sense and many other lives. Now you know you can gather that information. However, no matter where you are, long voyages across the sea are not necessary now to understand that that ocean of energy exists within you and that it is infinite within your consciousness and you can tap into those communications.

Now connections for many individuals with the stellar system of Sirius is also a communicative link to dolphins and whales very strongly because Sirius is one of the strongest reflections of communication telepathically with the dolphins and the whales upon your planet because they exist in an energy sea. They are not physiological as you understand it in that civilization but because they exist in an energy sea and are quite telepathic in that way. They have a strong identification with the dolphins and the whales that exist in your physiological sea and are also telepathic. So they have formed a type of brotherhood, a sisterhood. And therefore through the dolphins and whales, you are very strongly connected to the star system you call Sirius. And some of that energy is also what many of you at this time are beginning to recognize. And it does help to lighten many of you up. Will this be sufficient for now?

**Questioner:** That's wonderful. Thank you very much. We thank you very much. Yay.

***

### **Topic 8: Intense Energy in Maui and Breathing**

**Questioner:** Bashar. Um I have experienced in the last year um just a change in my energy level. Nice. It's become much more intense. In fact, it's become much more intense since I've moved to Maui. Nice. The last two years.

**Bashar:** Your Hawaiian area is a very sensitized area to the natural raw state of energy. It is in your terminology the heart energy area gate of your entire planet and therefore allows many of you to be that much more vulnerably open to those beings and pulses of your entire electromagnetic sphere. Do continue.

**Questioner:** Um the energy has gotten so intense sometimes that I just can just almost feel myself vibrating. I found that an outlet for me is physical activity. I'm very physically active. Can be very draining for a minute. But sometimes I just it's it gets so intense that I just feel like I'm going to dissolve in in energy. It's almost like being in a whirlwind.

**Bashar:** Yes, you do dissolve and recreate the persona that you are. So you can change in that way.

**Questioner:** The but a lot of times what I feel like is happening is that I'm scattering my this energy. It's like I feel like I've got access to a lot of energy but I don't really know how to focus it. I'm having a hard time with that.

**Bashar:** Then allow yourself to float in that particular state for a little while. In other words, do not necessarily assume that that state is negative. Do not necessarily assume that it must be immediately focused. Absorb it. Float in it. Immerse yourself in it in the same way that you would float serenely in the waters of your area. Let yourself drift for a little while. It is all right. You do not always have to have the absolute conscious analytical focus that your society tells you you must always have to know where you are going. Allow yourself to soften that particular need or expectation. The sooner you do, the faster you will absorb the information and paradoxically the faster you will collect yourself back together as opposed to okay but you will do it in an easy way.

**Questioner:** Okay. The one one more question sort of related to this is that I also in I don't know how long it's been a couple of times I'd say I've noticed that that sometimes I'm in situations where my breathing just gets I don't know whether it's fear or what's going on but my breathing I almost feel like I'm gasping for air. Nice. Um in in situations that I don't particular at least consciously I don't feel fearful and yet I find that it's I'm either forgetting to breathe or I don't it's just really intense sometimes.

**Bashar:** It is representative of what you may call a thickening of the atmosphere around you because the more you become aware of more energy around you if you still have a propensity to translate that recognition in physiological terms it will seem as if the very air around you is becoming too thick to breathe allow yourself to know it is simply more of new that you are discovering. Breathe into it in a different way. Breathe from different areas of your body. Breathe as one idea. Do not necessarily think that the idea or the notion of your lungs must necessarily carry all the weight of that idea. Do you understand? Breathe into it as one idea, as one body. Let it soak in through your cellular structure. Feel every pore on your body breathing. And there you will have dispersed that responsibility and it will not necessarily need to be focused. Once again the idea of focus it will not necessarily need to be focused in one local within your body. Understand? When you feel that energy do you sometimes feel a cooling down of your body or a heating up of your body?

**Questioner:** Uh I would say heating up.

**Bashar:** All right. Allow yourself to simply know you are accelerating. The more you allow yourself to breathe into it as a whole individual, the more it will cool down and you will become what is now recognized in your society as superconductive. The energy will flow through you without resistance, without any impedance at all that creates the apparent shortage of connection. You understand?

**Questioner:** I think so. Thank you very much. Thank you.

***

### **Topic 9: Time Ratio Between Dimensions**

**Bashar:** One more. We will address a notion which has been brought up simply so that there may be a little bit more understanding on the part of several individuals of our relative dimensional time frame to your dimensional time frame. Basically speaking our year is different from your year even though our day is very similar to your day in terms of the amount of time that it represents. But even though we experience in our own dimension the notion of a day very similarly to the way you experience a physiological day, the time rates fluctuate from your dimension to our dimension in approximately the following formula. Every one of what you call your years, every one year in your terminology is approximately seven of our years and 10 of your years. Seven of our years is approximately equal to 10 of your years. So the idea is that for every year you experience, we pass through 10 of your years, seven of ours. This will allow certain individuals to calculate certain things of our relative rate of existence. You can therefore understand that in your terminology we are approximately 10 times more accelerated than you. The idea therefore is that we have from time to time said we are approximately as an arbitrary identification mark 300 years ahead of you. However, that is why we have also said in approximately 30 of your years, you will be very close to a similar vibrational level that we are on now because of the factor of 10. In a sense, you are accelerating in a certain way as well. Even though we are accelerated 10 years for everyone, in 30 of your years, you will have begun to lay down the foundations that will allow your vibrational system to be relatively equal to our vibrational system so that you can do the same thing our system does if at that time you want to. However, for any other kind of calculations you wish to make, you can simply use the 10:1 ratio. Every year you experience, we experience 10 years of your time. 7 years about our year being approximately 454 of your days.

***

### **Topic 10: Career Change and Writing**

**Questioner:** Shane Bashar. Yes. I was um wanting to know if you could help me focus on um what my new uh career is going to be.

**Bashar:** Your new career is going to be. What do you believe it ought to be? What excites you more than anything else? What do you want to do? Remember that we spoke about the idea of what excitement is to you. So what do you wish your career to be? What is the most exciting career you can have? You can imagine. Do you not know?

**Questioner:** I'm still um finishing up my old career. 22 years as a flight attendant. I have 11 months left for early retirement. All right. It's very difficult for me now to uh focus on anything other than pushing through the end of this.

**Bashar:** Then there is absolutely nothing we can do to assist you at looking at anything else as long as you are focused on something you don't prefer. Do you have in any way, shape, or form any notion at all of something you would rather be doing?

**Questioner:** Yes. No. Maybe. Yes. Even a hint?

**Questioner:** Yes. I I like uh to write. I like writing.

**Bashar:** Like to write. Mhm. Is it shall we say perhaps more representative to say you love to write or is it truly that you simply like it?

**Questioner:** I love writing.

**Bashar:** Oh, thank you very much. It really excites you.

**Questioner:** Yes. Yeah, I really like it.

**Bashar:** All right. Why, if I may be so bold as to ask you a personal question. Can you not be a writer now concurrently with whatever else you are doing?

**Questioner:** No reason.

**Bashar:** No reason. All right. Then why not simply act as a writer and attract the life of a writer by acting so is that sufficient for you? Are you willing to allow it to be that simple? It can be but many of you have strong desires to complicate things. Are you willing to allow it to be that simple? Because it will work for you if you are. But it is up to you to honestly ascertain as to whether you can allow it to be that simple for you. Can it?

**Questioner:** Yes.

**Bashar:** Well, thank you very much. You are a writer. Act like one and you will have the right to be a writer. You will have the life that goes hand in hand, as you say, with being a writer. As soon as you are the vibration of who you prefer to be. You cannot have any other kind of a life. And you may find, just as shall we say for now, fair warning, that as soon as you really start acting more like a writer, you may find that the other things that you are not will not stick around, pension or no pension. For do you really need the idea of that kind of insurance if you know that what you are going to do that excites you the most is going to support you as abundantly as you need it to support you for the rest of your life anyway. That is up to you. These issues are up to you to decide what is important and not. They're not for us to say. However, we give you fair warning that as soon as you become more of what you really want to be, you do have a life that contains less of what you don't want to be. And you will all lure and attract circumstances to sever you from the life you don't want in many cases. So if that's acceptable to you and if there's not a great deal of fear in that then you can be whatever you want to be right now. It's up to you. Does that serve you sufficiently?

**Questioner:** Thank you very much. Oh thank you very much.

***

### **Topic 11: Physical Pain, Self-Worth, and Crystalline Clarity**

**Questioner:** Sh y y I'm the person that at the harmonic convergence I told you about the ship encounter that I had in Maui with the golden orbs and you said it was my future self working with me. Well, I do a lot of crystal work. I'm totally living a joyous everything I want to do by Yeah. I just want to share that with you. But there's something happening. Well, tonight at sunset. Yes. Um, my vision in my left eye.

**Bashar:** Do not worry.

**Questioner:** Well, I do a lot of spirit eyework. Release it. It's all right. Let it out. You are releasing. You are centering. You are balancing. Let the things that need to clear clear. That's what crying is for. I didn't want to believe in you cuz I see so clearly and I serve a lot of people to say the truth. Absolutely. And um on my spouse's birthday, I was really excited and running around and I ran into a corner of an edge of a of a counter right into um above my nose in between my eyebrows. And I know that it connects with the ship because I feel a triangle happen there, but it also gets very pinpointed pain. I what I wanted to talk to you about tonight or what if you could assist me with the physical pain because it gets in my way and I'm an artist creating beautiful crystal cases for this earth. Oh, you don't ask for an I'm also dealing with selfworth a lot.

**Bashar:** All right. Very good. Very good. All the pain will be alleviated when you allow yourself to truly feel your worth. That is the bottom line as you say. However, we will assist you in whatever way we can. First of all, what you do not need, although it is absolutely your right to create it if you want to, but what you do not need is the denial that you are experiencing. Denial in the following form. How could this happen to me? You are denying the way your life is unfolding as having anything to do with who you are. You are looking at the circumstance as an interruption in your life instead of a part of instead of a representation of the level of change you are going through. Why look at it as an interruption? That is what comes from doubting your self worth. Oh no, everything was moving along fine and now this. That is a denial of your own recognition of true momentum, your own recognition of place of being. Denial is what is causing you pain. Do not label these incidents as automatically negative. That is buying into the idea that somehow your life can be interrupted. Do you know for a fact that you have chosen to be of positive service?

**Questioner:** Yes or no? Absolutely. Yes.

**Bashar:** All right. Then when something unexpected happens, no matter in what form it happens, why assume that it is not a part of that positive manifestation? Why assume that it is a part of a negative one?

**Questioner:** Yes, I I got that because as I prayed and called into vision my focus again cuz it it I couldn't believe that I couldn't see cuz I really see.

**Bashar:** Yes, you now certain individuals not mean to interrupt you. Certain individuals just because of certain ideas they have been taught upon your planet and your society will sometimes feel that once they have arrived at a certain level of understanding they wish to get to the next level very quickly and sometimes they will actually create for themselves physiological blows to actually force them into a different direction. Not that it has to be done that way but very often it is. Many individuals who are extremely sensitive in that way have actually created that increased sensitivity with an actual physiological blow to the head. Now again the idea simply is is that it is representative no matter how it was done of your desire to accelerate and expand rapidly. However, you are also being shown by your own choice the belief systems that may have existed within you that carry with them an innate definition that in order to get to that level, your attention had to be drawn in a particularly focused way. Perhaps simply the quickest way to achieve that focus in your understanding of reality was through the blood.

Now breathe deeply and evenly right now. Breathe deeply and evenly right now. And as you breathe deeply and evenly right now, feel and see in your mind's eye the blue white electromagnetic light of your collective reality. Infuse your eyes, all of them, with that blue, white electromagnetic, cooling, soothing, energizing, vibrating light. Feel the crystallin clarity of that energy. Also begin to think, begin to refer to yourself as one homogeneous consciousness, one pure crystal, not a collection of parts, not a collection of different ideas, one idea, one energy. Breathe into the idea of being one light and recognize that the one idea you are can be translated into many different perspectives. But that just be another idea gently, fully but gently. And just know that the whole process of elevating yourself from level to level to level to level is simply waking up into more of yourself. Waking up out of one dream into a more expanded dream again and again and again and again. You don't have to shock yourself. You don't have to reorient yourself like that. You are bringing in a nice edge of crystal clarity. True cutting edge but you don't have to interpret that in physiological terms in the way you have. However, it has helped you to clarify your focus in another level to really allow you to sharpen the edge of your insight. Breathe into it and breathe it through. Breathe it out. Breathe it into your reality. Become one with the breath and allow what you call your external reality, no matter on what level or dimension it is to be within you.

I would remind you of the following idea and this to some degree will be the turning of a key within you. Whether it occurs consciously within you now or not does not matter. Remember the following idea. All of you can and apply this in whatever way it works for you in your imagination. But you remember this idea. Your consciousness is not in your body. Your body is in your consciousness. Your spirit is not in your body. Your body is your spirit in physiological terminology. Create less separation between the realms and you will understand that all the notions you call different levels are all within you. And all you have to do is be the notion as a whole idea and cease to make a comparison between this level and that level. When you cease to make a comparison between this level and that level, not that you cannot recognize that there may be a difference to some individuals, but when you cease to hold them up side by side to measure their worth. You will stop measuring yourself against them, you will stop coming up short. You will stop creating the kind of friction that comes from making that comparison of something you think is lower against something you think is higher. And it will be no resistance, no pain, no struggle, no shock in that way. Is this soaking in?

**Questioner:** Yes. Thank you so much. How do you feel?

**Questioner:** I feel a lot calmer that I don't have an idea that something's wrong.

**Bashar:** Thank you. That is the definition. Now, may I ask you another question? Okay. Thank you. Do you exist?

**Questioner:** Yes or no? That's Thank you very much.

**Bashar:** Did you have to do anything special in order to deserve to exist or not?

**Questioner:** But you're a member anyway. No, I just I want to be here.

**Bashar:** You were created.

**Questioner:** Yes. Yes.

**Bashar:** Then treat yourself with the same respect as the infinite creator who obviously believes you deserve to exist by having created you. Why doubt your self worth? Obviously you are worthy in the eyes of the infinite or you wouldn't exist because there are no extraneous creations within existence. You belong if you exist. You fit. Understand? So breathe into that. Breathe into your self-worth and love yourself to the same degree that infinite creation obviously loves you with unconditionally because you deserve unconditionally because you deserve it. Because you say so because you exist. If you didn't deserve it, you wouldn't exist. All right, fair enough.

**Questioner:** Yes. Thank you very much.

***

### **Topic 12: Sculpture Meaning and Heat Sensations**

**Questioner:** At this timing. You may all take a short break. We may continue. Yes, Bishar. I'd like to ask you a question about a sculpture that I have in my house. It's made of copper, glass, and crystal. I would like to know its um purpose for the community, how it reflects me personally, and where its design comes from.

**Bashar:** It represents the idea of aspiration. It represents the idea of piercing the veil between one dimension and another. Slipping through as you would slip through in the idea of a needle. It represents the idea of a very precise cutting edge, a very focused energy in that way. A very strongly understood direction and purpose. It represents a very high degree of momentum in that sense. And it can transmit all of these things symbolically to many different individuals and therefore represent to some degree in physiological crystallin form the crystallization of your own contract your own agreement in having been born physiologically at this time in this transformational age upon your planet. Understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. Does that assistant?

**Questioner:** Yes. Well, thank you very much. Also, it is highly conductive. Remember that. I'll remember that. Could you speak about the heat then that I've been experiencing in the last 3 days? Intense heat in your body.

**Bashar:** Highly conductive. The idea is to now recognize that you are beginning to transmit through your being through the crystal in a sense that you are that each and every one of you are of course but you are now a larger amount in your estimation of energy than previously. You have stepped up your resonance and therefore you are phasing into another level. You are ascending, lifting off so to speak as is symbolized by the piercing of that dimensional doorway, piercing of that gate. You are now beginning to elevate yourself, accelerate yourself to another dimensional level. And you are interpreting that acceleration as physiological energy as heat in that sense through the notion of friction through the definition of friction. Considering that you think of yourself as something that moves more slowly once again and you are channeling something that moves more faster than you begin to create less difference between the you you think you are and what you think you are receiving. You will match that frequency. There will be less friction because there'll be less difference between you and there will be less heat. 

**Bashar:** Pierce in the same way that that device would appear to pierce a veil very cleanly, very smoothly. You do not need to run into these barriers broadside. Pierce through them. Understand?

**Questioner:** Yes. Cuz you have a high focused beam of laserlike light. Shine it and you will pierce effortlessly. Smoothly acceleratingly understand.


### Healing Masculine/Feminine Polarity

**Questioner:** Yes. I would like to ask another question about male female relationship. Um many of us are experiencing um a sort of transition place in which we're trying to heal the inner male and the inner female.

**Bashar:** That is one of the primary importance of your transformational age to blend the polarity of the masculine and feminine energy within each and every one of you.

**Questioner:** Many of us experience the old way quote of doing it which is conflict or power struggle. Yes. Um exciting is not...

**Bashar:** No, it's not. Oh, it is exciting. You may not prefer it, but it's exciting.

**Questioner:** Do you have any um tools or uh suggestions in helping us to stay focused um to the healing and not be drawn back into the old patterns?

**Bashar:** First of all, to recognize this idea about patterns. If you know that something is a habit or know that something is a pattern, it no longer is because the habit is something you do, you don't know you're doing. So if you recognize it, you don't have it anymore. That's the first step to realize that once you have recognized it, you're already beyond it in order to be able to see that you once had it. So discontinuing to assume that just because you have recognized it means you still have it will also alleviate some of those cycles. If an individual finds that something is continuing to repeat after you recognize you have it, then it's only because you assume it must. Because perhaps you assume it has more power than you. Because perhaps you assume it has a mind of its own.

