---
heading: Chapter 2zg
title: "Proposition 48"
date: 2025-03-20
weight: 103
description: "Motion is the translation of a body from the place it occupies to another place. True rest is a body remaining at the same place."
author: "Euler"
c: "firebrick"
draft: true
---


## PROPOSITION 48. Problem

422. If the body is always drawn towards the centre of forces C (Fig. 52) by some force,
to find the tautochrone line BMA, upon which the body completes all the descend as far
as the point A in the same time.


### Solution

Call CA = c, CM = y and the centripetal
force acting at M is equal to P. Again let the
speed at A correspond to the height b and that at
M to the height v. The integral Pdy is taken
∫
thus, so that it vanishes on putting y = c, with
which done, the equation becomes
v = b − Pdy . Therefore by taking b for h
∫
∫
and Pdy for z , there is a function of h and z,
which is equal to v, of one dimension ; whereby
m is equal to 1. If now the arc AM is said to be
∫
equal to s, it gives s = 2 az = 2 a Pdy and
hence ds =
aPdy
. If now at M the tangent is drawn, and to the same line the
a ∫ Pdy


perpendicular CT is sent from the centre C, which is called p, then
∫
ydy
( y2 − p2 )
Whereby the equation is obtained : y 2 Pdy = ( y 2 − p 2 )aP 2 or p 2 = y 2 −
= ds .
y 2 ∫ Pdy
, the
aP 2
equation for the curve sought. Q.E.I.
Corollary 1. [p. 207]
423. At the point A, where
∫ Pdy vanishes, there p = y, or the right line CA is normal to
the curve , and on that account the speed of the body is a maximum since A is the point of
the curve closest to the centre C.

Corollary 2

424. If we put p = 0, the point of the curve B is obtained, at which the right line CB is a
tangent to the curve. And at that point, which is the maximum, the curve has a cusp. Now
∫
the point B is found from this equation : aP 2 = Pdy ; and y cannot be greater than the
value found from this equation.

Corollary 3
∫
425. Also it is apparent from the equation found : s = 2 a Pdy , since an ambiguous
sign is involved with the square root, that the curve has two branches AB and AD similar
and equal to each other, and on this account the oscillations which occur on the curve
BAD are equal to each other.

Corollary 4.

426. The radius of osculation at the point A is equal to c2−acP
. And since AC = c, the
2 aP
time in which one infinitely small descent is completed on the portion of the curve AB, is
equal to π a (207); therefore all the times are equal to this time. [p. 208] On this
account, since the oscillations, which are made on the curve BAD, are isochronous with
the oscillations of a pendulum under the hypothesis of gravity equal to 1, of which the
length is equal to 2a.
Example 1.
427. Let the centripetal force be directly proportional to the distances from the centre, so
y
that it is given by P = f ; the integral becomes
∫
y 2 −c 2
Pdy = 2 f
.
Hence the are therefore becomes : ...

The radius of osculation of this curve at the point M which is
2a
2a − f
page 306
ydy
, is found to be
dp
( 2a − f ) y 2 + fc 2 )
.
2a
From which it follows, if 2a < f, that the curve has the convex side turned towards the
centre C, as the figure shows. But if 2a = f, the curve becomes a right line normal at A to
the line AC. Moreover the point B, where CB is a tangent to the curves, is found from this
equation ( f − 2a ) yy = ccf , from which it formed :
BC =
c f
( f − 2a )
. Therefore as often as it happens that f > 2a or the curve is convex
towards C, the curve has a cusp at B. And in these cases the curve is a hypocycloid,
which is generated by the rotation of a circle, the diameter of which is equal
to
c f −c ( f − 2a )
( f − 2a )
radius equal to
, upon the concave part of a circle with centre C described by the
c f
( f − 2a )
. Therefore in this case the tautochrone curves agree with the
brachistochrone curves found above (390).
But if 2a > f, in which case the curve is concave towards C, then BC becomes
imaginary and the curve AM no further is a hypocycloid. [p. 209] Moreover then we have
p2 =
( 2a − f ) yy + ccf
, hence p everywhere besides A is greater than AC. Let c = 0; then it
2a
becomes p = y
2a − f
, whereby in this case the tautochrone curves are logarithmic
2a
spirals described around the centre C. Clearly a body on logarithmic spirals always
arrives at the centre C in the same time, from wherever the descent started. Therefore the
tautochrones are under this hypothesis of the centripetal force : first all the hypocycloids,
then all the right lines drawn in some manner, thirdly all the logarithmic spirals and in the
fourth place all the infinitude of other curves contained in this equation :
p2 =
( 2a − f ) yy + ccf
, if indeed it should be that 2a > f and c is not equal to 0. Moreover
2a
under this hypothesis for tautochrones Newton in the Principia [Book I, Prop. LI,
theorem XVIII.] and Hermann in Phoronomia and in the Comment. Acad. Petrop. A
1727, [p. 139, see in particular p.150; P.St.] have given only hypocycloids, although here
our equally general equation can be had.

Example 2.

428. The centripetal force is put inversely proportional to the square of the distances from ff ..
the centre, so that P = yy ; the integral becomes:
Therefore the curve AM is equal toEULER'S MECHANICA VOL. 2.
Chapter 2f.
Translated and annotated by Ian Bruce.
page 307
hence the radius of osculation is found:
Therefore where p vanishes, there also the radius of osculation is equal to 0. Moreover
the value of BC is itself found from this equation : y 4 = cy3 + acff . [p. 210] Therefore if
− ck , that which can be assumed, since k is an arbitrary
we put BC = k, then a = k cff
4
3
quantity. Moreover it is apparent that this curve between A and B must have a turning
point, which arises if the curve at A is concave towards C, clearly if 2aff > c3.
Example 3.
429. Let the centripetal force be constant everywhere or P = 1; then we have
Pdy = y − c. Whereby if from the centre C with radius CM the arc MP is drawn, it
∫
becomes
∫ Pdy = AP and the arc AM = 2 a( y − c ) = 2 a AP . But again it becomes
•
hence BC = a + c is found and the curve AB = 2a = 2( BC − AC ) . Now the radius of
osculation at the point M is equal to
Therefore at the lowest point A the radius of osculating is equal to 22aac
. Therefore the
−c
curve at A is concave towards C, if 2a > c, but convex if c > 2a, and the radius of
osculation at A is infinitely large, if 2a = c. In the first case, in which at A the curve is
concave towards C, the curve has a turning point, where
If c = 0 thus so that the point A falls on the centre C, y becomes the chord of this curve
and AM = 2 ay , the radius of osculation of this curve at the centre C is infinitely small,
and p = y
a− y
; moreover the curve can itself be constructed from the quadrature of the
a
circle. 