---
heading: Chapter 4
title: "The Second Part of the General Rule"
description: ""
a: "Malebranche"
c: "indigo"
weight: 8
date: 2026-06-20
---



## Descartes has observed most exactly what philosophers do not observe it at all

We have just shown into what errors one is capable of falling when reasoning from the false and confused ideas of the senses, and from the vague and indeterminate ideas of pure logic. By this, one recognizes clearly enough that, to preserve evidence in one’s perceptions, it is absolutely necessary to observe exactly the rule we have just prescribed, and to examine what the clear and distinct ideas of things are, in order to reason only according to these ideas.

In this same general rule regarding the subject of our studies, there is another circumstance to be well noted, namely: **we must always begin with the simplest and easiest things, and pause there for a long time before undertaking the investigation of the most composite and difficult ones.** For if one must reason only upon distinct ideas to always preserve evidence in one’s perceptions, it is clear that one must never pass to the investigation of composite things before having examined with great care, and made oneself highly familiar with, the simple things upon which they depend. 

The ideas of composite things are not clear, and cannot be so, when one knows only confusedly and imperfectly the simplest parts that compose them.


### Perfect vs. Imperfect, Clear vs. Confused Knowledge

One knows things **imperfectly** when one is not assured of having considered all their parts; and one knows them **confusedly** when they are not familiar enough to the mind, even though one is assured of having considered all their parts.

* When we know them only *imperfectly*, we make nothing but plausible reasonings.
* When we perceive them *confusedly*, there is no order or light in our deductions; we often do not know where we are or where we are going.
* But when we know them *imperfectly and confusedly at the same time*—which is most common—we never clearly know either what we are seeking or the means to find it.

So it is absolutely necessary to keep this order inviolably in one’s studies: always to begin with the simplest things, examine all their parts, and make them familiar to oneself before passing to the more composite things that depend upon them.

### The Human Inclination Toward Vanity and Obscurity

But this rule does not agree at all with the inclination of men; they naturally have contempt for everything that appears easy. 

Their mind, which is not made for a bounded object that is easy to understand, cannot pause for long to consider these simple ideas, which lack the character of the infinite for which they are made. On the contrary, and for the same reason, they have great respect and eagerness for large things that border on the infinite, and even for those that are obscure and mysterious. It is not that, deep down, they love darkness; but it is because they hope to find in the darkness the good they desire, which they recognize is not to be found here below in the full light of day.

Vanity also gives a great impetus to minds to throw themselves first into the grand and the extraordinary, and a foolish hope of happening upon success makes them run toward them. Experience teaches that the most exact knowledge of ordinary things yields no reputation in the world, and that knowledge of uncommon things, however confused and imperfect it may be, always attracts the esteem and respect of those who willingly form a high opinion of what they do not understand. And this experience determines all those who are more sensitive to vanity than to truth—and consequently most men—to a blind search for these specious and imaginary knowledges of everything that is grand, rare, and obscure.


## The Simplicity of Descartes vs. Scholastic Obscurity

So many people reject Descartes' philosophy because its principles are too simple and too easy!

There are no obscure and mysterious terms in his philosophy.

Women and persons who know neither Greek nor Latin are capable of learning it; therefore, they think, it must be a small thing, and it is not right that great geniuses should apply themselves to it.

They imagine that principles so clear and simple are not fertile enough to explain the effects of nature, which they suppose to be obscure and entangled. 

They do not see at first the use of these principles, which are too simple and easy to hold their attention for the time necessary to recognize their utility and extent. 

They therefore prefer to explain effects whose cause they do not understand by principles they do not conceive—and which it is absolutely impossible to conceive—rather than by principles that are both simple and intelligible at once. For these philosophers explain obscure things by principles that are not only obscure, but entirely incomprehensible.

When certain persons pretend to explain extremely entangled things by clear principles known to everyone, it is easy to see whether they succeed; because, if one conceives well what they say, one can recognize whether they speak the truth. Thus, false scholars do not find their account, and are not admired as they wish, when they use intelligible principles; for it is evidently recognized that they say nothing true. But when they use unknown principles, and speak of highly composite things as if they knew all their relations exactly, they are admired; because we do not conceive what they say, and we naturally have respect for what surpasses our intelligence.

Now, as obscure and incomprehensible things seem to bind better with one another than obscure things do with those that are clear and intelligible, incomprehensible principles are of greater use than intelligible principles in highly composite questions. There is nothing so difficult that philosophers and physicians do not pretend to give a reason for it in a few words by their principles; for their principles being even more incomprehensible than all the questions one can put to them, when one supposes these principles to be certain, there is no difficulty that can embarrass them.


### Examples of Pseudo-Explanations

They answer, for example, boldly and without hesitating, to these obscure or indeterminate questions:

> *From whence does it come that the sun attracts vapors, that cinchona bark stops a quartan fever, that rhubarb purges bile, and polychrest salt phleghm?*

And to other similar questions. Most men are quite satisfied with their answers, because the obscure and the incomprehensible accommodate each other well.

But incomprehensible principles do not accommodate themselves easily to questions that are clearly stated and easy to resolve, because one evidently recognizes that they signify nothing. 

Philosophers cannot, by their principles, explain how horses draw a carriage, how dust stops a watch, how tripoli powder cleans metals, or how brushes clean clothes. For they would make themselves ridiculous to everyone if they supposed a motion of attraction and attractive faculties to explain why carriages follow the horses harnessed to them, or a detersive faculty in brushes to clean clothes, and so on for other questions. So their great principles are useful only for obscure questions, precisely because they are incomprehensible.


## Constructing the Cartesian Universe: Extension, Figure, and Motion

One must not, therefore, pause at any of all those principles that one does not know clearly and evidently, and which one can think some nations do not accept. One must consider with attention the ideas one has of **extension, figure, and local motion**, and the relations these things have among themselves.

If one conceives these ideas distinctly, and finds them so clear that one is persuaded all nations have received them at all times, one must pause there and examine all their relations.

But if one finds them obscure, one must seek others, if any can be found. For if, to reason without fear of being mistaken, it is necessary to always preserve evidence in one’s perceptions, one must reason only upon clear ideas and their clearly known relations.

To consider the properties of extension in order, one must, as M. Descartes did, begin with their simplest relations, and pass from the simplest to the most composite—not only because this manner is natural and aids the mind in its operations, but also because God, always acting with order and by the simplest ways, this manner of examining our ideas and their relations will make us better know His works. And if one considers that the simplest relations are always those that present themselves first to the imagination when it is not determined to think of one thing rather than another, one will recognize that it suffices to look at things with attention and without preoccupation to enter into this order we prescribe and to discover highly composite truths, provided one does not wish to run too quickly from one subject to another.


### The Physics of Vortices (Tourbillons)

If one then considers extension with attention, one conceives without difficulty that one part can be separated from another—that is to say, one easily conceives local motion, and that this local motion produces a figure in both of the bodies that are moved. Of all motions, the simplest and the first that presents itself to the imagination is motion in a straight line.

Suppose that there is some part of extension [space] that moves in a straight line.

it is necessary that the part found in the place where this first extension is going must move circularly to take the place the other leaves, and thus a circular motion is made.

If one conceives an infinity of motions in a straight line, in an infinity of similar parts of this immense extension we are considering, it is likewise necessary that all these bodies, impeding one another, must all conspire by their mutual action and reaction—I mean by the mutual communication of all their particular motions—to move by a circular motion.

This first consideration of the simplest relations of our ideas already makes us recognize the necessity of **M. Descartes’ vortices (*tourbillons*)**:

* Their number will be all the greater as the straight-line motions of all the parts of extension, having been more contrary to one another, will have had more difficulty accommodating themselves to the same motion.
* Of all these vortices, those will be the largest where there are more parts that have conspired in the same motion, or whose parts have had more force to continue their motion in a straight line.


But care must be taken not to dissipate or fatigue one’s mind by applying it uselessly to the infinite number and immense grandeur of the vortices. One must first pause for some time at one of these vortices and investigate in order, and with attention, all the motions of the matter it contains, and all the figures with which all the parts of this matter must clothe themselves.


### The Two Elements: Spheres and Subtile Matter

As only motion in a straight line is simple, one must first consider this motion as that according to which all bodies incessantly tend to move, since God always acts according to the simplest ways, and indeed bodies move circularly only because they find continual oppositions in their direct motions. 

Thus, all bodies not being of equal size, and those that are larger having more force to continue their motion in a straight line than the others, one easily conceives that the smallest of all bodies must be toward the center of the vortex, and the largest toward the circumference; since the lines conceived to be described by the motions of the bodies at the circumference approach closer to a straight line than those described by the bodies near the center.

If one thinks further that each part of this matter could not move at first, and incessantly find some opposition to its motion, without rounding itself and breaking its angles, one will easily recognize that all this extension will still be composed of only two kinds of bodies:

1. **Round balls (The Second Element):** which turn incessantly on their center in several different ways, and which, besides their particular motion, are still carried along by the common motion of the vortex.

2. **A highly fluid and agitated matter (The First Element / Subtile Matter):** which will have been engendered by the friction of the balls just mentioned.

Besides the circular motion common to all parts of the vortex, this subtile matter will still have a particular motion in an almost straight line from the center of the vortex toward the circumference, through the intervals between the balls which leave them a free passage: so that their motion, composed of these motions, will be in a spiral line.

Descartes calls this fluid matter as the **1st element**.

It is divided into parts much smaller, and having much less force to continue their motion in a straight line than the balls, or the **2nd element**.

This 1st element must be in the center of the vortex, and in the intervals between the parts of the second, and that the parts of the second must fill the rest of the vortex, and approach its circumference in proportion to the size or force they have to continue their motion in a straight line. 

As for the figure of the whole vortex, one cannot doubt, from what has just been said, that the distance from one pole to the other is much smaller than the line crossing the equator.

If one considers that the vortices surround one another and press upon one another unequally, one will see clearly that their equator is a curved, irregular line that can approach an ellipse.


## Application to the Visible Universe

These are the things that naturally present themselves to the mind when one considers with attention what must happen to the parts of extension that incessantly tend to move in a straight line—that is to say, by the simplest of all motions. 

If one now wishes to suppose something that seems highly worthy of the wisdom and power of God, namely: that He formed the universe all at once in the same state that its parts would have arranged themselves over time according to the simplest ways, and that He also preserves them by the same natural laws; in a word, if one wishes to apply our thoughts to the objects we see:

* One can judge that **the sun is the center of the vortex**.
* That the corporeal **light** it sheds on all sides is nothing other than the continual effort of the small balls tending to recede from the center of the vortex.
* This light must communicate itself in an instant through immense spaces, because everything being full of these balls, one cannot press one without pressing all the others opposed to it.

One can deduce several other consequences from what I have just said; for the simplest principles are the most fertile for explaining the works of Him who always acts according to the simplest ways. But we need to consider further certain things that must happen to matter. We must think that there are several vortices similar to the one we have described in a few words:

* That the centers of these vortices are the **stars**, which are so many suns.
* That the vortices surround one another, and are arranged in such a manner that they impede each other as little as possible in their motions, but things could not come to this without the weakest of the vortices being carried away and, as it were, swallowed up by the strongest.


## Sunspots and the Formation of Planets (The Third Element)

The 1st element, which is in the center of a vortex, can escape and does incessantly escape through the intervals of the balls toward the circumference of the same vortex.

While this center or star empties itself through its equator, it must receive other first element back through its poles. For this star cannot empty itself on one side without filling itself on the other, since there is no vacuum in the world, as I suppose here, and as it is easy to prove by natural effects—by the transmission of light, for example.

But as there can be an infinity of causes that can prevent much of the first element from entering this star of which we speak, it is necessary that the parts of the first element obliged to stop there must accommodate themselves to move in the same direction. This is what causes them to attach and bind to one another, forming **spots** which, thickening into crusts, gradually cover this center and turn the most subtile and agitated of all bodies into a solid and coarse matter. 

Descartes calls this coarse matter as the **3rd element**.

It is engendered from the first, whose shapes are infinite. And so it must be clothed in an infinity of different forms.

This star, thus covered with spots and crusts, and having become like the other planets, no longer has the force to sustain and defend its vortex against the continual effort of those surrounding it. This vortex therefore gradually diminishes; the matter composing it spreads out on all sides, and the strongest of the surrounding vortices carries away the greater part of it, finally enveloping the planet that is its center. 

This planet, finding itself entirely surrounded by the matter of this great vortex, swims in it, preserving—with some small amount of the matter of its own vortex—the circular motion it had before; and it finally takes a position that puts it in equilibrium with an equal volume of the matter in which it swims.

* If it has little solidity and size, it descends very close to the center of the vortex that has enveloped it, because having little force to continue its motion in a straight line, it must place itself in the location of this vortex where an equal volume of the second element has as much force as it does to recede from the center; for it can only be in equilibrium in this location.
* If this planet is larger and more solid, it must put itself in equilibrium in a place further removed from the center of the vortex.

* And finally, if there is no place in the vortex where an equal volume of its matter has as much solidity as this planet—and consequently as much force to continue its motion in a straight line, because this planet will perhaps be very large and covered with very solid and thick crusts—it will not be able to stop in this vortex, since it cannot put itself in equilibrium with the matter composing it. This planet will therefore pass into other vortices; and if it finds no equilibrium there, it will not stop there either. 

So it will sometimes be seen to pass like **comets** when it is in our vortex and close enough to us for that; and it will not be seen for a long time when it is in other vortices, or in the extremity of ours.


## The Mechanics of Moons and Planetary Orbits

If one now thinks that a single vortex, by its size, force, and advantageous situation, can gradually undermine, envelop, and finally carry away several vortices—and even vortices that had overcome some others—it will be necessary that the planets formed in the centers of these vortices, having entered the great vortex that conquered them, must put themselves in equilibrium with an equal volume of the matter in which they swim. So, if these planets are unequal in solidity, they will be at an unequal distance from the center of the vortex in which they swim.

And if it happens that two planets have nearly the same force to continue their motion in a straight line, or that one planet carries away in its small vortex one or several other smaller planets that it conquered according to our way of conceiving the formation of things, then these small planets will turn around the larger one, while the larger one turns on its center; and all these planets will be carried along by the motion of the great vortex at an almost equal distance from its center.

We are obliged, following the light of reason, to arrange the parts composing the world thus, which we imagine to form by the simplest ways. For all that has just been said is supported only by the idea one has of extension, whose parts have been supposed to tend to move by the simplest motion, which is motion in a straight line. And when we examine by the effects whether we are mistaken in wanting to explain things by their causes, we are, as it were, surprised to see that the phenomena of the celestial bodies accommodate themselves perfectly to what has just been said.

For we see that all the planets at the center of a small vortex turn on their own center like the sun; that they all swim in the vortex of the sun and around the sun; that the smallest or least solid are closest to the sun, and the most solid furthest away; and that there are also some, like comets, that cannot remain in the vortex of the sun; finally, that there are several planets that have several other small ones turning around them, like the moon around the earth. Jupiter has four and Saturn five, and so it is the largest. Perhaps even Saturn has so great a number of very small ones that they produce the same effect as a continuous circle, which seems to have no thickness because of its great distance. These planets being the largest we see, they can be considered as having been engendered from vortices large enough to have conquered others before being enveloped in the vortex where we are.

All these planets turn on their center—the Earth in twenty-four hours, Mars in twenty-five or thereabouts, Jupiter in ten hours or thereabouts, etc. They turn around the sun; Mercury, which is closest to it, in about three months; Saturn, which is furthest, in about thirty years; and those between the two in more or less time, but not entirely in proportion to their distance. For all the matter in which they swim makes its turn faster when it is closer to the sun, because the line of its motion is smaller.

When Mars is opposite the sun, it is quite close to the earth, and it is extremely far from it when it is conjoined to it. It is the same for the superior planets, Jupiter and Saturn; for the inferior ones, like Mercury and Vénus, are never opposite the sun, properly speaking. The lines that all the planets seem to describe around the earth are not circles, but they approach closely to ellipses; and all these ellipses appear very different because of the different situations of the planets with respect to us. Finally, all that is noted with certainty in the heavens touching the motion of the planets accommodates itself perfectly to what has just been said of their formation according to the simplest ways.



### In Defense of Cartesian Vortices

There are many people who look upon M. Descartes’ vortices as pure chimeras. However, nothing is easier to demonstrate, supposing:

1. That every body in motion tends to move in a straight line.
2. That the planets have circular motions.

These are two truths certain by experience. For it is clear that if Jupiter, for example, were moved in a vacuum, it would always go in a straight line; and if it were moved in a matter that did not make a vortex or did not turn around the sun, not only would it always continue to go in a straight or at least a spiral line, but it would gradually lose its motion by communicating it to the fluid it displaced. It is necessary, therefore, that the celestial matter make a vortex, and that each planet place itself there in such a manner that its effort to recede from the sun balances the effort of an equal volume of this matter—that is to say, that the line of its circular motion be equal to that of the matter in which it swims.

As for the fixed stars, experience teaches that there are some that diminish and disappear entirely, and that there are also some that appear completely new, and whose brilliance and size increase greatly. They increase or decrease as the vortices of which they are the centers receive more or less of the first element. We cease to see them when spots and crusts form there, and we begin to discover them when these spots that impede their brilliance are entirely dissipated.

All these stars always keep the same distance among themselves, since they are the centers of vortices and are not carried away so long as they resist other vortices or remain stars. 

They are all brilliant like small suns, because, like the sun, they are the centers of vortices that are not yet conquered. They are all unequally distant from the earth, although they appear to the eye as if attached to a vault; for if the parallax of the closest with the furthest has not yet been noted by the different position of the earth from six months to six months, it is because this difference of position is not large enough, owing to the immense distance we are from the stars, to make this parallax sensible. 

Perhaps, by means of telescopes, one will be able to note some small amount of it. Finally, all that can be observed in the stars by the use of the senses and by experience is not different from what has just been discovered by the mind, in examining the simplest and most natural relations found between the parts and motions of extension.



## Terrestrial Physics and the Nature of Elements

If one wishes to examine the nature of the bodies here below, one must first represent to oneself that the first element being composed of an infinite number of different figures, the bodies formed by the assemblage of the parts of this element will be of several kinds.

* There will be some whose parts are **branched**, others whose parts are **long**, others whose parts are **round but irregular** in all ways.
* If their branched parts are large enough, they will be **hard, but flexible and without spring**, like *gold*.
* If their parts are less large, they will be **soft or fluid**, like *gums, fats, and oils*.
* But if their branched parts are extremely delicate, they will be **similar to air**.
* If the long parts of bodies are large and inflexible, they will be **sharp, incorruptible, and easy to dissolve**, like *salts*.
* If these same long parts are flexible, they will be **insipid**, like *water*.
* If they have coarse and irregular parts in all ways, they will be **similar to earth and stones**.

Finally, there will be bodies of several different natures, and no two will be entirely similar, because the first element is capable of an infinity of figures, and all these figures will never combine in the same manner in two different bodies. Whatever figures these bodies have, if they have pores large enough to let the second element pass in all directions, they will be **transparent**, like *air, water, glass, etc.* Whatever figures these bodies have, if the first element entirely surrounds some of their parts and agitates them strongly and promptly enough to repel the second element on all sides, they will be **luminous**, like *flame*. If these bodies repel all of the second element that strikes them, they will be **very white**; if they receive it without repelling it, they will be **very black**; finally, if they repel it by various shocks or vibrations, they will appear **of different colors**.

### Gravity and the Weight of Metals

As for their situation, the heaviest or least light—that is to say, those that have less force to continue their motion in a straight line—will be closest to the center, like metals. Earth, water, and air will be further removed from it, and all bodies will keep the situation in which we see them, because they must have placed themselves all the further from the center of the earth as they have more motion to recede from it.

And one must not be surprised if I say now that metals have less force to continue their motion in a straight line than earth, water, and other bodies even less solid, although I said before that the most solid bodies have more force to continue their motion in a straight line than the others. For the reason why metals have less force to continue moving than earth or stones is that **metals have much less motion**. It remains always true that two bodies unequal in solidity being moved with an equal velocity, the more solid has more force to go in a straight line, because then the more solid has more motion, and it is motion that makes the force.

And if one wishes to know the reason why toward the centers of vortices coarse bodies are heavy, and light when they are far removed from them (for if the earth, for example, were closer to the sun, it would go back up to where it is), one must think that coarse bodies receive their motion from the subtile matter surrounding them and in which they swim. Now, this subtile matter actually moves in a circular line around the center of the vortex, and it is this common motion to all its parts that it communicates to the coarse bodies it surrounds. But it cannot communicate to them the motions particular to each part that tends toward different sides, while nevertheless receding from the center of the vortex.

For care must be taken that the parts of the subtile matter, making an effort toward different sides, can only compress the coarse body they transport; for this body cannot go toward different sides at the same time. But because the subtile matter near the center of the vortex has much more motion than it employs in circulating, and communicates to the coarse bodies it carries along only its circular motion common to all its parts—and if the coarse bodies had, besides, more motion than that which is common to the vortex, they would soon lose it by communicating it to the small bodies they encounter—from this it is evident that coarse bodies, toward the center of the vortex, do not have as much motion as the matter in which they swim, of which each part moves in several different ways besides their circular or common motion.

Now, if coarse bodies have less motion, they certainly make less effort to go in a straight line and to recede from the center; and if they make less effort, they are obliged to yield to those that make more, and consequently, to draw closer...







<!-- 
**Explanation of the second part of the general rule. That philosophers do not observe it, and that Mr. Descartes has observed it very exactly.**

We have just shown into what errors one is capable of falling when one reasons on the false and confused ideas of the senses, and on the vague and indeterminate ideas of pure logic. Thereby one recognizes sufficiently that, in order to preserve evidence in one's perceptions, it is absolutely necessary to observe exactly the rule we have just prescribed, and to examine what are the clear and distinct ideas of things, so as to reason only according to those ideas.

In this same general rule which concerns the subject of our studies, there is still this circumstance to be well noted: namely, that we must always begin with the simplest and easiest things, and dwell on them even for a long time before undertaking the search for the more complex and more difficult ones. For if one must reason only on distinct ideas, in order to preserve always evidence in one's perceptions, it is clear that one must never pass to the search for composite things before having examined with great care and made very familiar the simple ones on which they depend; since the ideas of composite things are not clear and cannot be, when one knows only confusedly and imperfectly the simplest ones that compose them.

One knows things imperfectly when one is not sure that one has considered all their parts; and one knows them confusedly when they are not sufficiently familiar to the mind, although one is sure that one has considered all their parts. When one knows them only imperfectly, one makes only probable reasonings. When one perceives them confusedly, there is no order nor light in the deductions; one often does not know where one is or where one is going. But when one knows them both imperfectly and confusedly together—which is the most common—one never knows clearly either what one is seeking or the means of finding it. So that it is absolutely necessary to keep this order inviolably in one's studies: always to begin with the simplest things, to examine all their parts, and to make them familiar before passing on to the more composite ones that depend on them.

But this rule does not agree with the inclination of men. They naturally have contempt for everything that appears easy; and their mind, which is not made for a limited object that is easy to understand, cannot dwell long on the consideration of those simple ideas which do not have the character of the infinite for which they are made. They have, on the contrary, and for the same reason, much respect and eagerness for great things that partake of the infinite, and even for those that are obscure and mysterious. It is not at bottom that they love darkness; but it is that they hope to find in darkness the good they desire, and that in broad daylight they recognize that it is not to be found here below.

Vanity also gives much impetus to minds to throw them at once into the great and extraordinary, and a foolish hope of succeeding makes them rush into it. Experience teaches that the most exact knowledge of ordinary things gives no reputation in the world, and that knowledge of uncommon things, however confused and imperfect it may be, always attracts the esteem and respect of those who willingly form a high idea of what they do not understand. And this experience determines all those who are more sensitive to vanity than to truth—and consequently the majority of men—to a blind search for those specious and imaginary knowledges of everything that is great, rare, and obscure.

How many people reject Mr. Descartes' philosophy for this amusing reason: that its principles are too simple and too easy! There are no obscure or mysterious terms in this philosophy; women and persons who know neither Greek nor Latin are capable of learning it; therefore it must be a small thing, and it is not fitting that great minds should apply themselves to it. They imagine that principles so clear and simple are not fertile enough to explain the effects of nature, which they suppose to be obscure and entangled. They do not see at first the use of these principles, which are too simple and too easy to arrest their attention for as long as is needed to recognize their use and extent. They therefore prefer to explain effects whose cause they do not understand, by principles which they do not conceive and which are absolutely impossible to conceive, rather than by principles that are both simple and intelligible. For these philosophers explain obscure things by principles which are not only obscure, but entirely incomprehensible.

When some persons pretend to explain extremely entangled things by clear principles known to everyone, it is easy to see whether they succeed, because if one understands well what they say, one can recognize whether they speak truly. Thus, false scholars do not find their account, and do not make themselves admired as they wish, when they use intelligible principles; because one recognizes evidently that they say nothing true. But when they use unknown principles, and speak of highly composite things as if they knew exactly all their relations, they are admired; because one does not understand what they say, and we naturally have respect for what surpasses our intelligence.

Now, as obscure and incomprehensible things seem to connect better with each other than obscure things with those that are clear and intelligible, incomprehensible principles are of greater use than intelligible principles in very composite questions. There is nothing so difficult that philosophers and physicians do not pretend to give an account of in a few words by their principles; for their principles being even more incomprehensible than all the questions that can be put to them, when these principles are supposed certain, there is no difficulty that can embarrass them.

They answer, for example, boldly and without hesitation to these obscure or indeterminate questions: "Why does the sun attract vapors? Why does quinine stop quartan fever? Why does rhubarb purge bile and polychrest salt phlegm?" and to other similar questions. And most men are satisfied enough with their answers, because the obscure and the incomprehensible accommodate each other well. But incomprehensible principles do not accommodate themselves easily with questions that are clearly set forth and easy to resolve; because one recognizes evidently that they mean nothing. Philosophers cannot, by their principles, explain how horses pull a cart, how dust stops a watch, how tripoli cleans metals and brushes clean clothes. For they would render themselves ridiculous to everyone if they supposed an attraction movement and attractive faculties, to explain why carts follow the horses that are harnessed to them, and a detergent faculty in brushes to clean clothes, and so on for other questions. So that their great principles are useful only for obscure questions, because they are incomprehensible.

One must therefore not stop at any of all these principles, which one does not know clearly and evidently, and which one can think some nations do not accept. One must consider with attention the ideas one has of extension, figure, and local motion, and the relations these things have to each other. If one conceives these ideas distinctly, and finds them so clear that one is persuaded that all nations have accepted them in all times, one must dwell on them and examine all their relations; but if one finds them obscure, one must seek others, if one can find any. For if, in order to reason without fear of being mistaken, it is necessary always to preserve evidence in one's perceptions, one must reason only on clear ideas and on their clearly known relations.

In order to consider in order the properties of extension, one must, as Mr. Descartes did, begin with their simplest relations, and pass from the simplest to the most composite, not only because this manner is natural and aids the mind in its operations, but also because God, acting always with order and by the simplest ways, this manner of examining our ideas and their relations will make us better know His works. And if one considers that the simplest relations are always those that present themselves first to the imagination, when it is not determined to think of one thing rather than another, one will recognize that it suffices to regard things with attention and without preoccupation, to enter into this order that we prescribe and to discover very composite truths, provided one does not wish to run too quickly from one subject to another.

If one considers extension attentively, one conceives without difficulty that one part can be separated from another—that is to say, one conceives without difficulty local motion, and that this local motion produces a figure in both of the bodies that are moved. Of all motions, the simplest and the first that presents itself to the imagination is motion in a straight line. Suppose then that there is some part of extension that moves by a motion in a straight line; it is necessary that the part which is in the place where this first extension is going should move circularly to take the place that the other leaves, and thus a circular motion is produced. And if one conceives an infinity of motions in a straight line, in an infinity of similar parts of this immense extension that we consider, it is still necessary that all these bodies, hindering each other, conspire together by their mutual action and reaction—I mean by the mutual communication of all their particular motions—to move themselves by a circular motion.

This first consideration of the simplest relations of our ideas already makes us recognize the necessity of Mr. Descartes' vortices: that their number will be the greater, the more the straight-line motions of all the parts of extension, having been more contrary to each other, have had more difficulty in accommodating themselves to one same motion; and that of all these vortices, those will be the largest where there will be more parts that have conspired to the same motion, or whose parts will have more force to continue their motion in a straight line.

But one must take care not to dissipate or fatigue one's mind by uselessly applying oneself to the infinite number and immense size of the vortices. One must first dwell some time on one of these vortices and search in order, and with attention, all the motions of the matter it contains, and all the figures with which all the parts of this matter must clothe themselves.

Since there is only straight-line motion that is simple, one must first consider this motion, as that according to which all bodies tend incessantly to move, since God always acts according to the simplest ways, and since in effect bodies move circularly only because they find continual oppositions to their direct motions. Thus, all bodies not being of equal size, and those that are larger having more force to continue their straight-line motion than the others; one conceives easily that the smallest of all bodies must be toward the center of the vortex, and the largest toward the circumference, since the lines that one conceives to be described by the motions of the bodies that are at the circumference approach more nearly the straight line than those described by the bodies that are near the center.

If one thinks again that each part of this matter could not move at first, and continually find some opposition to its motion, without rounding itself and breaking its angles; one will easily recognize that all this extension will still be composed only of two kinds of bodies: of round balls that turn incessantly on their center in several different ways, and which besides their particular motion are still carried by the common motion of the vortex
[13]; and of a very fluid and very agitated matter, which will have been engendered by the friction of the balls just mentioned. Besides the circular motion common to all the parts of the vortex, this subtle matter will still have a particular motion in an almost straight line from the center of the vortex toward the circumference, through the intervals of the balls that leave it free passage; so that their motion, composed of these motions, will be in a spiral line. This fluid matter, which Mr. Descartes calls the first element, being divided into much smaller parts, and which have much less force to continue their straight-line motion than the balls, or the second element; it is evident that this first element must be at the center of the vortex, and in the intervals that are between the parts of the second, and that the parts of the second must fill the rest of the vortex, and approach its circumference in proportion to the size or the force they have to continue their straight-line motion. As for the figure of the whole vortex, one cannot doubt, from what has just been said, that the distance from one pole to the other is much smaller than the line that crosses the equator
[14]. And if one considers that the vortices surround each other and press each other unequally, one will still see clearly that their equator is a curved, irregular line that can approach an ellipse.

These are the things that present themselves naturally to the mind when one considers with attention what must happen to the parts of extension that tend incessantly to move in a straight line—that is to say, by the simplest of all motions. If one now wishes to suppose a thing that seems very worthy of the wisdom and power of God—namely, that He formed the universe all at once in the same state that its parts would have arranged themselves with time, according to the simplest ways, and that He conserves them also by the same natural laws; in a word, if one wishes to apply our thoughts to the objects we see: one will be able to judge that the sun is the center of the vortex; that the corporeal light it spreads on all sides is nothing other than the continual effort of the little balls that tend to distance themselves from the center of the vortex; and that this light must communicate itself in an instant through immense spaces, because everything being full of these balls, one cannot press one without pressing all the others that are opposite to it.

One will still be able to deduce from what I have just said several other consequences; for the simplest principles are the most fertile for explaining the works of Him who always acts according to the simplest ways. But we need still to consider certain things that must happen to matter. We must therefore think that there are several vortices similar to that which we have just described in a few words: that the centers of these vortices are the stars, which are as many suns; that the vortices surround each other, and that they are arranged in such a way that they harm each other as little as possible in their motions, but that things could not have come to that without the weakest of the vortices having been carried away and as it were engulfed by the strongest.

To understand this, one need only think that the first element which is at the center of a vortex can escape, and does escape incessantly, through the intervals of the balls, toward the circumference of the same vortex; and that while this center or this star empties itself by its equator, it must be filled again with other first element through its poles: for this star cannot empty itself on one side without filling itself on the other, since there is no void in the world as I suppose here, and as is easy to prove by natural effects, by the transmission of light for example. But, as there may be an infinity of causes that can prevent much of the first element from entering this star we are speaking of, it is necessary that the parts of the first element that are obliged to stop there accommodate themselves to move in the same direction. This is what makes them attach and bind themselves to each other and form spots which, thickening into crusts, cover little by little this center and make of the most subtle and most agitated of all bodies, a solid and coarse matter. This is the coarse matter, which Mr. Descartes calls the third element; and it must be noted that as it is engendered from the first, whose figures are infinite, it must be clothed with an infinity of different forms.

This star, thus covered with spots and crusts, and become like the other planets, no longer has the force to sustain and defend its vortex against the continual effort of those that surround it. This vortex therefore diminishes little by little; the matter that composes it spreads on all sides; and the strongest of the surrounding vortices carries away the greatest part of it, and finally envelops the planet that is its center. This planet, finding itself entirely surrounded by the matter of this great vortex, swims in it, preserving with some little of the matter of its vortex the circular motion it had before; and it finally takes a situation that puts it in equilibrium with an equal volume of the matter in which it swims. If it has little solidity and size, it descends very near the center of the vortex that has enveloped it, because having little force to continue its straight-line motion, it must place itself in the place of this vortex where an equal volume of the second element has as much force as it to move away from the center; for it can be in equilibrium only in that place. If this planet is larger and more solid, it must place itself in equilibrium in a place farther from the center of the vortex. And finally if there is in the vortex no place where an equal volume of its matter has as much solidity as this planet, and consequently as much force to continue its straight-line motion, because this planet is perhaps very large and covered with very solid and thick crusts; it will not be able to stop in this vortex, since it cannot put itself in equilibrium with the matter that composes it. This planet will therefore pass into the other vortices; and if it does not find its equilibrium there, it will not stop there either. So that one will sometimes see it pass like comets, when it is in our vortex and close enough to us for that; and one will not see it for a long time when it is in the other vortices, or at the extremity of ours.

If one now thinks that a single vortex, by its size, its force, and its advantageous situation, can gradually undermine, envelop, and finally carry away several vortices, and even vortices that had overcome some others; it will be necessary that the planets that have formed at the centers of these vortices, having entered the great vortex that has overcome them, place themselves in equilibrium with an equal volume of the matter in which they swim. So that if these planets are unequal in solidity, they will be at unequal distance from the center of the vortex in which they will swim. And if it happens that two planets have approximately the same force to continue their straight-line motion, or that one planet carries in its small vortex one or several other smaller planets that it has overcome according to our manner of conceiving the formation of things; then these small planets will turn around the larger one, while the larger one will turn on its center: and all these planets will be carried by the motion of the great vortex at an almost equal distance from its center.

We are obliged, following the lights of reason, to arrange thus the parts that compose the world, which we imagine forming itself by the simplest ways. For all that has just been said is based only on the idea we have of extension, whose parts we have supposed tend to move by the simplest motion, which is motion in a straight line. And when we examine by effects whether we are not deceived in wishing to explain things by their causes, we are as if surprised to see that the phenomena of celestial bodies accommodate themselves perfectly with what has just been said. For we see that all the planets that are in the middle of a small vortex turn on their own center like the sun; that they all swim in the vortex of the sun and around the sun; that the smallest or least solid are closest to the sun, and the most solid the farthest; and that there are also some, like comets, that cannot remain in the vortex of the sun; finally, that there are several planets that have still several other small ones that turn around them, like the moon around the earth. Jupiter has four and Saturn five, also being the largest. Perhaps even Saturn has so many and so small that they produce the same effect as a continuous circle, which seems to have no thickness because of its great distance. These planets being the largest we see, we can consider them as having been engendered from vortices large enough to have overcome others before being enveloped in the vortex where we are.

All these planets turn on their center: the Earth in twenty-four hours, Mars in about twenty-five, Jupiter in about ten hours, etc. They turn around the sun: Mercury, which is closest, in about three months; Saturn, which is farthest, in about thirty years; and those in between in more or less time, but not exactly in proportion to their distance. For all the matter in which they swim makes its round faster when it is closer to the sun, because the line of its motion is smaller. When Mars is opposite the sun it is quite close to the Earth, and it is extremely far when it is in conjunction with it. It is the same with the superior planets, Jupiter and Saturn; for the inferior ones, like Mercury and Venus, are never properly speaking opposite the sun. The lines that all the planets seem to describe around the Earth are not circles, but approach ellipses; and all these ellipses appear very different, because of the different situations of the planets with respect to us. Finally, all that is observed in the heavens, with certainty, concerning the motion of the planets, accommodates itself perfectly with what has just been said of their formation according to the simplest ways.

There are many people who regard Mr. Descartes' vortices as pure chimeras. Yet nothing is easier to demonstrate, supposing: 1° that every body in motion tends to move in a straight line; 2° that the planets have circular motions—two truths certain by experience. For it is clear that if Jupiter, for example, were moved in a vacuum, it would always go in a straight line; and if it were moved in a matter that did not make a vortex or that did not turn around the sun, not only would it continue always to go in a straight or at least spiral line, but it would lose little by little its motion by communicating it to the fluid it displaces. It is therefore necessary that the celestial matter make a vortex and that each planet place itself there in such a way that its effort to distance itself from the sun is in equilibrium with the effort of an equal volume of this matter—that is to say, that the line of its circular motion be equal to that of the matter in which it swims.

As for the fixed stars, experience teaches that there are some that diminish and disappear entirely, and that there are also some that appear entirely new, and whose brilliance and size increase greatly. They increase or decrease according as the vortices, of which they are the centers, receive more or less of the first element. One ceases to see them when spots and crusts form on them, and one begins to discover them when these spots that hinder their brilliance are entirely dissipated.

All these stars always keep the same distance from each other; since they are the centers of the vortices, and they are not carried away as long as they resist the other vortices or as long as they are stars. They are all brilliant like little suns, because they are like him the centers of some vortices that are not yet overcome. They are all unequally distant from the Earth, although they appear to the eyes as attached to a vault; for if one has not yet noticed the parallax of the nearest with the farthest, by the different situation of the Earth from six months to six months, it is because this difference of situation is not great enough, because of the immense distance where we are from the stars, to make this parallax sensible. Perhaps, by means of telescopes, one will be able to notice some little. Finally, all that can be observed in the stars by the use of the senses and by experience, is not different from what has just been discovered by the mind, in examining the simplest and most natural relations that are found between the parts and motions of extension.

If one wishes to examine the nature of the bodies that are here below, one must first represent to oneself that the first element being composed of an infinite number of different figures, the bodies that will have been formed by the assembly of the parts of this element will be of several kinds. There will be some whose parts are branched, others whose parts are long, others whose parts are like round but irregular in all ways. If their branched parts are large enough, they will be hard, but flexible and without spring, like gold; if their parts are less large, they will be soft or fluid, like gums, fats, oils; but if their branched parts are extremely delicate, they will be like air. If the long parts of bodies are large and inflexible, they will be sharp, incorruptible, easy to dissolve like salts; if these same long parts are flexible, they will be insipid like waters; if they have coarse and irregular parts in all ways, they will be like earth and stones. Finally, there will be bodies of several different natures, and there will not be two entirely alike, because the first element is capable of an infinity of figures, and all these figures will never combine in the same way in two different bodies. Whatever figures these bodies have, if they have pores large enough to let the second element pass in all directions, they will be transparent like air, water, glass, etc. Whatever figures these bodies have, if the first element entirely surrounds some parts of them, and agitates them strongly and quickly enough to repel the second element from all sides, they will be luminous like flame. If these bodies repel all the second element that strikes them, they will be very white; if they receive it without repelling it, they will be very black; finally, if they repel it by various jolts or vibrations, they will appear of different colors.

As for their situation, the heaviest or the least light—that is to say, those that have less force to continue their straight-line motion—will be closest to the center, like metals. Earth, water, air will be farther away; and all bodies will keep the situation where we see them, because they must have placed themselves the farther from the center of the Earth as they have more motion to distance themselves from it.

And one must not be surprised if I say now that metals have less force to continue their straight-line motion than earth, water, and other less solid bodies, although I said before that the most solid bodies have more force to continue their straight-line motion than the others. For the reason why metals have less force to continue moving than earth or stones, is that metals have much less motion, since it is always true that two bodies unequal in solidity being moved with equal speed, the more solid has more force to go in a straight line, because then the more solid has more motion, and it is motion that makes force. And if one wishes to know the reason why toward the centers of the vortices coarse bodies are heavy, and light when they are very far from it (for if the Earth, for example, were closer to the sun, it would rise to where it is), one must think that coarse bodies receive their motion from the subtle matter that surrounds them and in which they swim. Now, this subtle matter is actually moved in a circular line around the center of the vortex, and it is this motion common to all its parts that it communicates to the coarse bodies it surrounds. But it cannot communicate to them the particular motions of each part that tend toward different sides, while nevertheless distancing themselves from the center of the vortex. For one must observe that the parts of the subtle matter, making effort toward different sides, can only compress the coarse body they carry; for this body cannot go at the same time toward different sides. But because the subtle matter that is toward the center of the vortex has much more motion than it uses to circulate; that it communicates to the coarse bodies it carries only its circular motion common to all these parts, and that if the coarse bodies had otherwise more motion than that which is common to the vortex, they would soon lose it by communicating it to the small bodies they encounter; from there it is evident that coarse bodies, toward the center of the vortex, do not have as much motion as the matter in which they swim, of which each part moves in several different ways besides their circular or common motion. Now, if coarse bodies have less motion, they certainly make less effort to go in a straight line and to distance themselves from the center; and if they make less effort, they are obliged to yield to those that make more and, consequently, to draw nearer to the center of the vortex—that is to say, they are heavier the more solid they are.

But when coarse bodies are very far from the center of the vortex, as the circular motion of the subtle matter is then very great, because it employs almost all its motion to turn around the center of the vortex; the bodies have the more motion the more solid they are, since they go at the same speed as the subtle matter in which they swim; thus they have more force to continue their straight-line motion. So that coarse bodies, at a certain distance from the center of the vortex, are the lighter the more solid they are.

This shows therefore that the Earth is metallic toward the center, that it is not very solid toward its circumference, that water and air must remain in the situation where we see them; but that all these bodies are heavy, air as well as gold and quicksilver, because they are more solid and coarser than the first and second elements. This shows that the Moon, being a little too far from the center of the vortex of the Earth, is not heavy although it is solid; that Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn cannot fall into the sun, that they are not solid enough to leave their vortex like comets, that they are in equilibrium with the matter in which they swim, and that if one could throw high enough a musket ball or a cannonball, these two bodies would become small planets, or else they would be solid enough to become like small comets that could no longer stop in the vortex.

I do not pretend to have sufficiently explained all the things I have just said, or to have deduced from the simple principles of extension, figure, and motion, what one must infallibly deduce from them. I wish only to show the manner in which Mr. Descartes took himself to discover natural things, so that one may compare his ideas and his method with those of other philosophers. I have had no other design here; but I do not fear to assure that if one wishes to cease admiring the virtue of the magnet, the regulated motions of the ebb and flow of the sea, the noise of thunder, the generation of meteors; finally, if one wishes to instruct oneself in physics, as one cannot do better than to read and meditate on his works, one can do nothing if one does not follow his method—I mean if one does not reason as he does on clear ideas, always beginning with the simplest.

It is not that this author is infallible, and I believe I can demonstrate that he was mistaken in several places in his works. But it is more advantageous to those who read him to believe that he was mistaken, than if they were persuaded that everything he said were true. If one believed him infallible, one would read him without examining him, one would believe what he says without knowing it; one would learn his sentiments as one learns histories, which would not form the mind. He warns himself that in reading his works, one must take care whether he was not mistaken, and that one must believe nothing of what he says except when forced by evidence. For he does not resemble those false scholars who, usurping an unjust domination over minds, wish to be believed on their word, and who instead of making men disciples of the inner truth, by proposing to them only clear ideas, submit them to the authority of pagans, and, by reasons they do not understand, make them receive opinions they cannot comprehend.

The principal thing one finds to criticize in the manner in which Mr. Descartes makes the sun, stars, Earth, and all the bodies that surround us arise, is that it appears contrary to what Holy Scripture teaches us of the creation of the world; and that if one believes this author, it seems that the universe formed itself as it were, such as we see it today. To this one can give several answers.

The first: that those who say that Mr. Descartes is contrary to Moses have perhaps not examined Holy Scripture and Descartes as much as those who have shown by their public writings that the creation of the world accommodates itself perfectly with the sentiments of this philosopher.

But the principal one is that Mr. Descartes never pretended that things happened little by little as he describes them. For in the first article of the fourth part of his philosophy, which is that, in order to find the true causes of what is on the Earth, one must retain the hypothesis already taken notwithstanding that it is false, he says positively the contrary in these terms:

"Although I do not wish one to persuade oneself that the bodies that compose this visible world were ever produced in the way I have described, as I have warned above, I am nevertheless obliged to retain here the same hypothesis to explain what is on the Earth, so that if I show evidently, as I hope to do, that one can by this means give very intelligible and certain reasons for all the things observed there, and that one cannot do the like by any other invention, we may have reason to conclude that, although the world was not made in this way in the beginning, and that it was immediately created by God, all the things it contains nevertheless are now of the same nature as if they had been thus produced."

Descartes knew that in order to understand well the nature of things, one must consider them in their origin and in their birth; that one must always begin with those that are simplest and go first to the principle; that one must not concern oneself whether God formed his works little by little by the simplest ways or whether he produced them all at once; but, in whatever way God had formed them, in order to know them well one must consider them first in their principles, and take care only afterwards whether what one had thought agrees with what God had done. He knew that the laws of nature, by which God conserves all his works in the order and situation in which they subsist, are the same laws as those by which he could have formed and arranged them; for it is evident to all those who consider things with attention, that if God had not arranged his work all at once in the manner it would have arranged itself with time, all the order of nature would be overturned, since the laws of conservation would be contrary to those of the first creation. If the entire universe remains in the order where we see it, it is because the laws of motions that conserve it in this order would have been capable of putting it there. And if God had put them in an order different from that in which they would have put themselves by these laws of motion, all things would overturn and put themselves, by the force of these laws, in the order where we see them presently.

A man wishes to discover the nature of a chicken: for this he opens every day eggs he has put to hatch; he examines there what moves and what grows first; he soon sees that the heart begins to beat and to push on all sides canals of blood which are the arteries, that this blood returns toward the heart by the veins, that the brain also appears first, and that the bones are the last parts that form. He thereby delivers himself from many errors, and he even draws from these observations several consequences of very great use for the knowledge of animals. What can one find to criticize in the conduct of this man? Can one say that he pretends to persuade that God formed the first chicken by first creating an egg and giving it a certain degree of heat to make it hatch, because he tries to discover the nature of chickens in their formation? Why then accuse Mr. Descartes of being contrary to Scripture, because, wishing to examine the nature of visible things, he examines their formation by the laws of motion that are observed inviolably on all occasions? He never doubted that the world was created in the beginning with as much perfection as it has; so that the sun, the Earth, the Moon, the stars were from then, and that the Earth did not have only in itself the seeds of plants, but that the plants themselves covered a part of it, and that Adam and Eve were not created children, but of the age of perfect men. "The Christian religion," he says, "wishes us to believe thus, and natural reason persuades us absolutely of this truth, because, considering the omnipotence of God, we must judge that everything he made had all the perfection it should have. But, as one would know much better what was the nature of Adam and that of the trees of paradise if one had examined how children form little by little in the womb of their mothers and how plants come out of their seeds, than if one had only considered what they were when God created them; in the same way we will make better understood what is generally the nature of all the things that are in the world, if we can imagine some principles that are very intelligible and very simple, from which we show clearly that the stars, the Earth, and finally all the visible world could have been produced thus from some seeds, although we know that it was not produced in this way, than if we describe it only as it is or as we believe it was created; and because I think I have found principles which are such, I will try to explain them here
[15]."


Descartes thought that God had formed the world all at once. But he also believed that God had formed it in the same state, in the same order, and in the same arrangement of parts in which it would have been if He had formed it little by little by the simplest ways. 

This thought is worthy of the power and wisdom of God: of His power, since He made in a moment all his works in their greatest perfection; of His wisdom, since thereby He made known that He perfectly foresaw all that must necessarily happen in matter if it were agitated by the simplest ways, and also because the order of nature could not have subsisted if the world had been produced in a manner contrary to the laws of motion by which it is conserved, as I have just said.

It is ridiculous to say that Mr. Descartes believed that the world could form itself by itself, since he recognized, like all those who follow the lights of reason, that no body can even move by its own forces, and that all the natural laws of the communication of motions are only consequences of the immutable wills of God, who acts incessantly in the same manner. Having proved that only God gives motion to matter, and that motion produces in all bodies all the different forms with which they are clothed, that was enough to take away from libertines all pretext for drawing any advantage from his system. On the contrary, if atheists made some reflection on the principles of this philosopher, they would soon find themselves constrained to recognize their errors, for if they can maintain, like the pagans, that matter is uncreated, they cannot likewise maintain that it was ever capable of moving by its own forces. Thus atheists would be at least obliged to recognize the true mover if they did not wish to recognize the true creator. But ordinary philosophy furnishes them with enough to blind themselves and sustain their errors; for it speaks to them of certain impressed virtues, of certain motive faculties, in a word, of a certain nature which is the principle of the motion of each thing, and, although they have no distinct idea of it, they are very glad, because of the corruption of their heart, to put it in the place of the true God, imagining that it is what does all the wonders we see. -->