CHAPTER 11 ‑ PRIITYA'NNA:

When one gives food to other persons out of love, that food is called Priitya'nna. When one is in great trouble, without food and drink, and when one gets food from others, that is called A'pada'nna. While accepting Priitya'nna, you must determine whether that man, from whom you are accepting Priitya'nna, is Shuddhodana or not. (Shuddhodana=Shuddha+Odana i.e. one who earns his livelihood by honest means). Secondly, you must see whether the food offered to you is Ra'jasika or Ta'masika. If you take Sa'ttvika food regularly, you must not take Ra'jasika food by any means. But in A'pada'nna, there is no such discrimination. When one is starving, his very life is in danger, where is the scope for discrimination? While taking A'pada'nna, the family men may not discriminate about food, but the Sannya'sins must not accept Pa'pa'nna or A'pada'nna because if one takes Pa'pa'nna, it is an encouragement to Pa'pa. There should be silent protest. If the family men also follow this rule, it is well and good. 

CHAPTER 10 SANTOS'A 
The word" Santos'a" bears two meanings. One is Samyaka Tus't'i(thorough contentment)and the other is Antarastha Tus't'i(internal contentment).When there remains no desire for a particular object, you can say that you have achieved contentment for that particular object. Both Sukha (happiness) and Tos'a(contentment)are concerned with mind and nerves. You know that "Anuku'la vedaniiyamsukham". When a man gets a vibration in his nerve-fibres and nerve-cells that is pleasing to his sam'ska'ra, he enjoys happiness. After that when he thinks that the objects which he was engrossed are not required, it is called Tos'a. You get happiness from a favourable vibration of an object in your nerve-cells and nerve-fibres as desired according to your Sam'ska'ras. Then after getting sufficient happiness you feel that more of that is not needed: it is called Tos'a. So hapiness and contentment are not one and the same thing. The wicked and the sinners used to catch-hold of the feet of Lord Shiva addressing Him as "Ba'ba',Ba'ba' Father) "and Lord Shiva used to become satisfied with this easily. In Sam'skrta the word "A'shu" means `soon'.Therefore another name of Shiva is A'shutos'a- "Who becomes satisfied very soon". Practically speaking the essentialities of man are very limited. Very little amount of things are required for maintaining the body and family. But the hunger in man is infinite. His hunger is physical as well as mental. If the hunger is not satiated, man feels the deficiency within and remains dissatisfied. This is called "Asantos'a"(discontentment). Due to this dissatisfaction in life people of the world are engaged in murders, mutual clashes and quarrels. What should the wise person do? He will try to lead his life according to the principles of Aparigraha. When he, practically, is satisfied in Aparigraha, he has established himself in Santos'a too. Before this, Santos'a can never be achieved. Actually Santos'a is the final result of Aparigraha. Without Aparigraha, contentment in physical and psychic levels is an impossibility. You have seen how some animals remain satisfied, for example the dog. He is a happy animal because he gets contentment with a little amount of food. The opposite is the case with bees. They will accumulate honey more and more. Ultimately the bee hive will become so big in size that honey will ooze out of it. Still they will not stop collecting honey. But give some food to the dog, he will be very joyous and after eating he will sleep. Therefore, it is said that man should learn contentment from the dog. The dog has two good qualities which man should learn. One is the Santos'a and the other is sleeping. How does a dog sleep? He sleeps very deeply but with a very little sound he gets up. This is called "Shva'na Nidra' "or dog's sleep. Man's essentialities are very few. But due to his Sam'ska'ra of greed he goes against the principles of Santos'a and as a consequence he becomes disturbed mentally. 
Sarpah pivanti pavanana cadurbala'ste 

The serpent consumes vitality from air. In winter he can remain for six months without food in hibernation. 

Shus'kaeh trn'aehbano gajahbalinam' bhavanti 

The wild elephant is a herculean animal, but he lives with dry grass of the forest. 

Kandaerphalaohmunivara'hraks'antika'yam
Muni(hermits)of forests maintain their lives with roots and fruits of the trees. The roots and fruits strengthen the upper two plexii-Ana'hata and Vishuddha. Therefore the saints can cultivate their spiritual and intellectual thoughts only with these roots and fruits. Therefore man's desires are not many. He requires one thing and that is Santos'a. 

Santos'ae vapurus'asyaparamamnidha'nam
If a man is established in Santos'a, he is king of kings. And without Santos'a he remains a beggar inspite of being a multi-millionaire. Have you understood now the psychological cause behind the agony of the rich? Continuous enjoyment of favourable vibrations in the nerves gives you happiness and the feeling that you need no more is Santos'a. If your nerve receives the opposite vibration which you do not like, you get sorrow then and there. 
ManwantsSukha(happiness).SukhamanantamA'nandam
If the happiness becomes infinite it is called A'nandam. You have understood the difference between Sukha and Santos'a. I have also divulged the secrets of establishment in Santos'a. It is only the practice of Aparigraha which results in Santos'a.


CHAPTER 11 ‑ T A P A H
Tapah and Tapasya' are synonyms. Tapah is of two kinds ‑ one, to suffer pain providing A'nanda (happiness) to the people of world, and the second to suffer pain in order to give A'nanda to Parama Purus'a. Suppose somebody is suffering because of his economic or mental circumstances, and is unable to have any pleasure in the world. If you eschew your happiness to provide him the same, it will be called Tapah. Those who practise Tapah are said as Ta'pas or Tapasvii. You must remember one thing, that Tapah does not mean carrying coal to New Castle. If one has got luxurious food at his home, and you feed him after borrowing money, this is not Tapah, since the man whom you fed has received no happiness. As such this is not Tapah. You suffered hardships, but the other man was already enjoying all these things, and he has received no happiness. Feed the poor, the beggar, help some poor student after curtailing your family expenses, help the Children's Homes, then it is Tapah. It shall not be Tapah if you are feeding a rich friend. Suppose you have spent Rs 5000/‑ in feeding your rich friends. Though you have suffered economic hardship, it is not tapah. The social service programme of A'nanda Ma'rga comes under Tapah.
 The 2nd item is to face suffering to give happiness to Parama Purus'a. There is no dearth of A'nandam in Parama Purus'a, still you are trying to give Him happiness. In the first item Tapah meant giving happiness to those who do not have it. Here you are giving happiness to Him Who has it. Hence this is a second item.
 To give happiness to those who have it, is not Tapah, but in reference to Parama Purus'a it is Tapah. Many people suffer physical hardship, say standing on the head, to give happiness to Parama Purus'a. The Vrtti dominating, in their mind thinks that they shall give happiness to Parama Purus'a by suffering pain.
In the second item the dominating feeling is to give happiness or A'nandam to Parama Purus'a. This is known as Gopii‑ Bha'va by Vaes'n'ava Sa'dhakas and those who do so are called Gopa. Parama Purus'a is also known as Gopeshvara, Gopesha, Gopii Ballabha, Gopa Bandhu. The underlying motive behind this Tapah, is to come under His especial notice. Whether Parama Purus'a desires it or not, is only known to Him, but Bhaktas perform Tapah with this very idea.
 Bhaktas visualize things as a Bhakta. But only such actions can be called Tapah which are desired by Parama Purus'a. If to this end, man performs Tapah, it is all right. But if you suffer just to provide satisfaction to Parama Purus'a, if you suffer, Parama Purus'a does not desire so. If you are doing something which He desires, and in doing so, you are suffering pains and hardships, then it is all right. But to suffer pain just to give A'nanda to Parama Purus'a is not a correct thing. For example if one has kept burning fire all around himself, and doing penance, this is not going to give any A'nandam to Parama Purus'a. Just to catch His eye, if one is doing all these things then this is not proper. He is always looking at you. Rather Parama Purus'a will also feel pain, by seeing the man in such a state of pain. It has not given Him A'nandam. But Bhaktas at times do it and they cannot be compelled to change. Still I have said that just suffering pain for Tapasya' won't provide one with liberation.


CHAPTER12-SVA'DHYA'YA 

You know that knowledge is the subjectivization of the external objectivity. The method of this subjectivization is known as Adhyayana or study. Root Adhi+Ayan suffix-Adhyayana. Adhyaya name an store ad something, understanding its proper meaning. If you read only without knowing the proper meaning, it does not come in the scope of Sva'dhya'ya. You might have seen a man reading Hanuma'na Ca'liisa' without stop. But he pays no attention to its meaning. It also happens that if he does not get time to read anyday, he will bid Pran'a'ma to the scripture just touching it with his head three times. These are all useless. 
You have to read with proper understanding of the meaning. Here the `meaning' does not indicate the meaning of the word, lying within. If you yourself cannot understand the spirit, the underlying meaning of any subject, you should go to other persons who can help you. It is a must for you to know the meaning.
Therefore, the first item of Sva'dhya'ya is to know the meaning. If you are reading Giita' only by reciting the Sam'skrta aphorisms, but you do not understand the meaning, then your study of Giita' is useless. Therefore, I say, the scripture should be written in the people's language. In A'nandaMarga, books and scriptures are written in the people'slanguage. A'nandaSu'tram is written in Sam'skrta but its purport is in the people's language. Now the second item is Sha'stra. What is Sha'stra?

Sha'sana'tta' rayetyastu sahsha'strah parikiirtitah 
	Sha'stra is that which shows you the path of liberation by ordering you with the do's and don'ts. Sha'stras are of kinds.　1.Dharma Sha'stra,　2.Sama'ja Sha'stra and 3.Dharshana Sha'stra.　In the spiritual sphere these three are regarded as spiritual scriptures. It requires more clarification. Actually speaking, the Sha'stras are of two categories: one is Dha'rmika and the other is Laokika. The Sama'ja Sha'stras remain in between the two. According to the circumstances sometimes Sama'ja Shastras will be included in Laokika Sha'stra, sometimes it will be included in Dha'rmika Sha'stra. In A'nanda Marga, we have Trisha'stra. In Dharma Sha'stra we have included Sama'ja Sha'stra. Again suppose you are studying Sociology, Physics, Chemistry, Biology. These are all Sama'ja Sha'stra and are included in Laokika Sha'stra. Sva'dhya'ya is a part of Sa'dhana'. So when somebody reads scripture for the purpose of Sva'dhya'ya, he should read clearly the recognized Dharma Sha'stra or Darshana Sha'stra. Both come in the scope of Sva'dhya'ya. Sama'ja Sha'stra is mainly Laokika Sha'stra. You should read it, learn it and cultivate it. But by reading the Sama'ja Sha'stra you cannot get the benefit of Sva'dhya'ya. Because in the scope of Sva'dhya'ya, the Dvi 
Sha'stra of the Trisha'stra are included. If you read Carya'carya, it will not be Sva'dhya'ya. Dharma Sha'stra or Dha'rmika Sha'stra is unchangeable because it is A'ptaVa'kya. Sama'ja Sha'stra is made according to the dictation of A'pta Va'kya. So the Sama'ja Sha'stra will change in different ages. And the law of this changeability is an A'pta Va'kya. In Carya'carya already there is direction that according to circumstances the social laws will be changed. But Dharma Sha'stra and Darshana Sha'stra which come in the scope of Dha'rmika Sha'stra will never change because their inner subject is A'ptava'kya. But that of Sama'ja Sha'stra is not. According to the change of time, place and person, the Sama'ja Sha'stra will vary. If it is an A'ptava'kya or according to the order on the authority of the A'ptava'kya, the Sama'ja Sha'stra will be accepted as Pra'ptava'kya. If it is accepted as A'ptava'kya, then there will be no right or scope to change it according to the conditions. Now the third item. What do we mean by "Pa't'ha" or reading. The mind assimilates the expressional vibration which reaches the mind through the eye organ. Mind takes the form according to these vibrations. This particular function of mind is called 'reading'. When we can retain it or when we can recreate that image whenever we wish in our mind without the help of any external object, it is called memory. This memory depends on will-force. There are many persons who can use their will-force to create a second vibration in nerve-cells easily and there are many who cannot use the will-force for this purpose. He who can create second vibration is called Shrutidhara. We find some bright boys who are very sharp in their study. But in other works he will prove worthless. He may stand first in the school-examination but is completely worthless in sports. 
Anubhu'ta vis'ayaS ampramas'ah Smrtih 
The vibration was coming from an object.
To create again the similar vibrations with the help of will-force is memory. You are seeing an elephant. The form-vibration came to your eyes and to your nerve-cells. Now closing the eyes, if you shake your nerve-cells with the help of will-force and recreate the same elephant a hundred times or thousand times, it is called memory or recollection. Different persons use their will-force in different faculties. The speciality of will-force of the individuals may be different from each other. There are some scholars who have no memory. In every case they will consult the reference books. They are intelligent but have no memory. The Indriyas are vibrated by the external vibrations. These at of Indriyas is situated in the brain. Nobody can see them physically. The eyes are the gateway of Caks'u Indriya. When the physical eye or the gateway carries the same vibration to the brain, the particular brain-cell is also vibrated, That nerve-cell is called Caks'u Indriya. Now a man reads the Sha'stras with the help of his Caks'u Indriya. He sees the letters A, B,C etc Ayametipara ebetigane nalaghucetasa'm Uda'racarita'na'mtuvasudhaevakut'umbakam

The vibration of these lines will hit the eye and there will be its impressions in the mind. Then he can recite again-Ayameti.... This type of vibration may be carried through ears also, as it is done by the eyes. The vibration will come through the ocular nerve and create a vibration in the brain and the mind will learn that thing. Thus man may learn many things by hearing even without the knowledge of letters A, B, C, etc. Some learn by reading, and some learn by hearing. Thus man can learn with the help of different Indriyas. Somebody learns by touch also. For instance the blind learn by Braille system, not by ears nor by eyes. Likewise the study of scriptures is possible through eyes. But without eyes also it can be done. Uneducated man, by listening to any Katha'ka'ra who discusses many educative subjects may learn more than those who are educated. He may become a great scholar if he can retain. Ancient India was more educated but less literate than the modern India. The percentage of literate people was less, but that of educated was more. It is not always a fact that one will be educated just by acquiring an M.A. degree. It is also not a fact that he who does not know A, B, C letters is not educated. He may know many things by listening only. It is a very bad practice in the society that people recognize those as educated who study through the medium of eyes and do not give any recognition to those who are educated throug hears. We are doing wrong by practising it. In rural areas you will see that illiterate old men know many things which you do not know. They have learnt by listening. Thus the study of Sha'stras by listening process is called `Satsaungati'. Many great scholars have assembled and they are discussing valuable subjects. Listening to them with your ears is called Mukhya Satsaunga. The Satsaunga with the help of other Indriyas is called "Gaon'a Satsaunga". From the cradle to the grave men need the Satsaunga either Mukhya or Gaon'a. In Tantra the `Satsaunga' is called Mudra' Sa'dhana'. 

Satsaungena bhaven mukti rasatsaunge s'ubandhanam
Asatsaun mudra n'amyatsa' mudra' parikiirtita' 

When an idea comes to your mind and you express it externally, this expression is called Mudra'. You want a glass of water. This idea you may express by making a peculiar gesture with your fingers. This is a Mudra'. So Mudra' is a technique of presenting different ideas through expressions.
29292929


