

CH 15 ‚Äë S H V A' S A:

According to scriptures inhalation is life and exhalation is death. Man inhales and exhales 21,000 to 24,000 times a day. The process of breathing consists of Pu'raka (inhaling), Kumbhaka (keeping the breath within), Recaka (exhaling), then again Pu'raka, Kumbhaka and Recaka. There is a small duration of kumbhaka between Pu'raka and Recaka. The moment you breathe in, you do not inhale instantly, there is a pause when the breath is outside (Details will be dealt with in Pra'n'a'ya'ma). Your existence entirely depends upon Recaka, Kumbhaka and Pu'raka. You are doing it even when you are asleep, even when you are in a senseless condition. This is the nearest and dearest phenomenon for you, without which you cannot live. When once you have done Recaka and have not breathed in, this is temporary death for a moment. But again you have inhaled. 

The moment you are unable to breathe in after breathing out, people call it death. If an adjustment of Is't'a Mantra be made with this Pu'raka and Recaka, your Japa shall go on unknowingly and unconsciously with the respiration, and shall continue on even when you are asleep. By conscious and constant practice, you can reach this stage. When such a stage has been reached that Japa is going on without any attempt, without any endeavour, this is called Ajapa' Ga'yattrii or Ajapa' Japa. You have gone to sleep while doing Japa and when you get up, you find 'Japa' is going on. This is "Ajapa' Japa".

In the end, when man leaves this body, he leaves it while doing Recaka. Mantra has been so adjusted that with the last syllable his breath goes out, and his Pra'n'a merges in Maha'‚Äë Pra'n'a. A'tma' will merge in Parama'tma', his death will be the last death. To adjust this, some of the Mantras are reversed, for example `So'ham' becomes Ham' So. You have to adjust the breath with the Mantra in such a manner that when you breathe out for the last time, you breathe out with such an ideation of your Is't'a Mantra that you merge in Him ‚ÄëHam' merging in So and Tvam' merging in Tat.



CH 16 ‚Äë SIDDHA MANTRA:

What is Siddha Mantra? When your endeavour has brought the desired result, you call it Siddhi, and the man who achieves it or the medium through which it is achieved is called Siddha. In scriptures, Siddha has been mentioned in another sense as well. Human body is composed of five Mahabhu'tas (Ks'iti, Apa, Teja, Va'yu and A'ka'sha) and also has within itself mental and spiritual aspects as well. When man aspires to achieve his supreme goal, Parama Purus'a, he realizes this through Sa'dhana' and his entire entity merges in the Supreme Entity, the Parama Purus'a. But there may be persons who aspire to achieve through their Sa'dhana' something cruder than Parama Purus'a. It is because of their ignorance and lack of true knowledge that they desire for something other than Parama Purus'a. They aspire for occult powers ‚Äë Mahima', Garima', Laghima', Iishitva, Vashitva, Praka'mya, Pra'pti and Antaraya'mitva. 

As such Parama Purus'a becomes the apparent goal, the actual goal being their inner ambitions. They do not aspire as much for Parama Purus'a, as for occult powers. As they aspire so they achieve. How can they achieve anything else? Ks'iti and Apa are crudest Bhu'tas. The bondage of place is so intense on them that they cannot move from this place to that all at once. They take a lot of time, while Teja, Marut and Vyom Tattvas can move with a greater speed since the bondage of place on them is very loose. How great is the speed of light waves!! 

Those persons whose goal is not Parama Purus'a do not merge in Him, but according to their bondages, merge with less. That means after death they do not have the two lowest Bhu'tas (Ks'iti and Apa) and their physical body consists of Tejas, Marut and Vyom Tattvas. In Sam'skrta, they have been named as Deva Yoni ‚Äë Gandharva, Kinnara, Yaks'a, Vidya'dhara, Siddha, Videhaliina and Prakrtiliina. Siddha is also one amongst the Devayoniis, and in this sense as well. The Siddha word has been used in scriptures. Siddhas are the best amongst all, they aspire not only for occult powers, but also for Parama Purus'a, they dwell in a confusion. These Siddhas, often help the Sa'dhaka in Sa'dhana'. 

Spiritual aspirants who have liberated themselves from the effect of the two lower Cakras (Mu'la'dha'ra and Sva'dhis't'ha'na) can very easily see these Siddhas, they are luminous bodies comprising of three Tattvas (Tejas, Marut and Gagana), whereas a human body consists of five Bhu'tas. They can receive or emit through the vibration of their bodies; all they receive or emit is nothing but vibration. Vibration emanating from that luminous body will be reflected thoughout the world, will be vibrating thoughout the world. The colour of vibration emanating from their bodies is whitish light. They come back in human life after the exhaustion of their Sam'ska'ras.
 What is Siddha Mantra? It is that mantra by which the goal has been realized. Mantra has been defined as Manana't Ta'rayet yastu sah mantrah parikiirttitah. The constant repetition which enables one to get liberation and also liberation from all bondages is Mantra. Maha'kaola prepares the Mantra when realization is had with the help of that Mantra. That means when one is fully established in the ideation of a Mantra, that particular Mantra is called a Siddha Mantra. One who realizes this state is said to be a siddha in that mantra. After achieving siddhi they are also called kaola. When they achieve siddhi, Kun'da'lin'ii residing in Kula' reaches her goal. Kun'da'lin'ii residing in Kula' is known as Kula' Kun'da'lin'ii. And Koala being the adjective form of Kula' the realized sadhaka is also called a Kaola. But the mantra is made only by Ma'ha' Koala. 
 What is the psychic side of Mantra? Mantra is always associated with Mantra Caetanya, so when you ideate upon the same in Iishvara Pran'idha'na, the ideation of the mantra enters the ectoplasmic structure and vibrates it to take a form accordingly. By constant and persistant Sa'dhana' you may become so established in the ideation of the Is't'a Mantra, that the moment you desire it, your mind may take a corresponding form then and there. You have to put your endeavour towards this achievement by your Sa'dhana', and later you will realize this stage when at the moment you desire it, your ectoplasmic structure takes on a form according to the ideation mantram. Such a stage is called Mantra Siddhi. For example when your ectoplasmic structure becomes capable of taking the form of an elephant the moment you desire it. It can be said that you have attained Siddhi in the structure of an elephant. 
Suppose a person has been taught to repeat the letter `Ka', and he has become an adept in music by constantly practicing on `Ka', then he will be able to conceive of and sing any music he desires by uttering the word `Ka'. At such a stage it will be said that the man has achieved Siddhi in the `Ka Mantra'. You are practising Sa'dhana' persistently four times a day, and this constant endeavour makes you reach a certain stage that you are then able to form a mental structure in accordance with the ideation of Mantra without any special endeavour. It shall be said that you have achieved Mantra Siddhi. Just as after achieving the stage of Ajapa'‚ÄëJapa you need make no special endeavour for the Japa of the Mantra to go on unconsciously and unknowingly. Similarly, you reach a stage after achieving Mantra‚ÄëSiddhi where you need make no special endeavour to transform your ectoplasmic stuff to the ideation of the Mantra the moment you desire it.
 Every Mantra has its own goal. When you are permanently established in the goal of the Mantra, it is said that you have achieved Siddhi in that Mantra. It is quite possible that you have achieved Siddhi in one Mantra, say Pishaca Mantra of Avidya' Tantra, but you have not done so in Brahma Sa'dhana'. Generally you will find that the achievement and powers attained in Avidya' Tantra will not remain with a person the moment he is initiated in A'nanda Ma'rga Sa'dhana'. That would be recognized as a cruder Sa'dhana' of another type. When the mind has taken another path, all occult and supernatural powers achieved previously will leave him. He has to proceed ahead according to the discipline of the A'nanda Ma'rga Sa'dhana' and achieve Mantra‚ÄëSiddhi in the Mantra to which he has been now initiated.
 There are different stages of Vidya', Upavidya' and Avidya' Tantra. When Mantra Shakti (power of Mantra) activates a particular gland fully, some particular power emerges. Suppose, a man is practising Yaks'in'ii‚ÄëSa'dhana' of Avidya' Tantra in the burial ground. When he achieves Mantra Siddhi, Yaks'in'ii appears before him in a luminous form. Yaks'in'ii shall bring anything demanded by this man. How does it happen? The man has achieved control over some Kos'a of his ectoplasmic stuff, and the power of that portion is called as Yaks'a, It possesses the same power as the Yaks'a (one amongst the seven Siddhas). 
 Yaks'in'ii is not a strange external power, rather it is the power of the ectoplasmic stuff itself, with the help of which the A'vidya' Ta'ntrika is fetching the things of his desire. But it has got certain limitations, it can bring substances which are present in the world, nothing beyond that, at the same time gradual crudification of mind leads him to a stage, when all power is lost. He is a degenerated man, whose very face manifests his evil nature. This is a suicidal tendency.



CH 17 ‚Äë MANTRA SVABHA'VA:
 Every object has its own Svabha'va ‚Äë one's own existential characteristic. Similar is the case with Mantra. Every Sa'dhaka has his own particular point of view when he wants to realize Parama Purus'a, which means when he desires to give Parama Purus'a A'nandam. Accordingly he uses a particular mode of expression according to his Sam'ska'ra ("My every action should give A'nanda to my Parama Purus'a is known as Gopii‚ÄëBha'va").
Accordingly every Mantra has its own particular ideation. For example the Mantra Soham has the ideation of "Sah Aham" ‚Äë "I am He", it is because of Avidya' and ignorance that I feel myself separate from Him. The endeavour to establish oneself in the idea of "I am He", by elevating oneself from the existing feeling of separateness, is his Sa'dhana'. When you reach the goal of Mantra, you are established in Advaeta‚ÄëBha'va (monistic‚Äëideation). This is a particular Svabha'va of the Mantra Soham, which has to be reversed in Sa'dhana', since you have to keep `So' till the end of your life, and when you exhale your last breath, you do so in `Sah' (the Parama Purus'a) and not in Aham'.
 All the Mantras, except one which you use as Is't'a Mantra, are auto‚Äësuggestion. The Sa'dhaka is thinking within, "I am like this, I am like this". He is contemplating within the subconscious and wants to transform his ectoplasmic stuff and mind accordingly. When he realizes a stage, where he can transform himself according to the ideation of the Is't'a Mantra, when he desires so, it is said that he has realized the stage of Mantra‚ÄëSiddhi.
 Another type of suggestion is outer suggestion, wherein you are not giving suggestion to yourself, but giving it to others. `Tattvam' implies outer suggestion wherein Guru‚ÄëShakti is telling you, "You are That, You are That". That denotes Parama'tma'. At the preliminary stage this Mantra remains limited to words only, constant internal repetition transforms the ectoplasmic stuff accordingly, and brings the ideation of Mantra to actual realization. When you fail in the endeavour of transforming the ectoplasmic structure to the requisite form according to the ideation of Is't'a Mantra, you say that you have not been able to concentrate during Sa'dhana'. 
 How could it be possible? All the time during Sa'dhana', you had been thinking of several external objects and obsessions, at one moment you were meditating upon the Mantra, and at another on some other thought. How can the ectoplasmic stuff take on the form of your Mantra? If you find that your mind is in a wavering state, do some Bhajana and kiirtana, recite some song or repeat His name loudly. As a consequence, all other thought shall go away, you shall be able to do the Shuddhis properly. Perform your Japa correctly and automatically the ectoplasmic stuff will take on the desired form. When this shall become your nature, you shall attain Mantra‚ÄëSiddhi. 
 You have attained Siddhi in so many things. While reading a word, say, `accord', do you think of each and every letter and then compose the word? While talking in your mother tongue do you translate your ideas within and then speak, which you might be doing when you have to speak in a language other than your mother tongue? No, you do not. And it is so because the word and language has become one with you, and you need make no special endeavour. 
Similarly with the Mantra, you have to put in perpetual and constant practice, and try to transform your ectoplasmic stuff accordingly. You have to manufacture your ectoplasmic structure accordingly. This is not the work of a day or two, it is only through constant endeavour that you will realize it. In ancient days people were doing penance for a very long duration of time. Of course, if in the past life, one has performed Sa'dhana', one will achieve realization in this life instantly, because one was accustomed to the same.
 Your Iccha' Shakti shall activate your conscious mind with the ideation of your Mantra. All your nerves, veins, arteries and blood of the entire structure shall vibrate accordingly. Consequently the ectoplasmic stuff will take the corresponding form. At times you shall feel horripilation, and experience A'nanda (bliss). These are the correct symptoms showing that the ideation is penetrating within the atoms and molecules of your body. You have only to use Siddha Mantra and no other.



CH 18 ‚Äë DHARMA CAKRA:
Just as unit mind controls the physical body, similarly collective mind affects the collective body. When 10, 20, or 30 Sa'dhakas assemble at a place, their common spiritual tendency forms a collective mind and vibrates a spiritual flow in the environment which helps everyone present in the Dharma Cakra, be he developed or less developed. The advantage you gain in Dharma Cakra, cannot be had by you when you are doing Sa'dhana' alone. Instead, you have to have Satsaunga also.
 Iishvara Pran'idha'na is not Japa (repetition of Mantra alone). This is a type of Dhya'na. It shall not be proper to call it Japa. Arddha Iishvara Pran'idha'na and Cakra‚ÄëCakra'ntara Japa come under Japa. Cakra‚ÄëCakra'ntara Japa, which you call Cakra Shodhana, is also Japa based on Dha'ran'a', and Arddha Iishvara Pran'idha'na is pure Japa. When you are free, not engaged otherwise, you should do Japa, this shall habituate you in repetition of Mantra and shall help you in Iishvara Pran'idha'na and Cakra Shodhana.




CH 19 ‚Äë IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS:

1) If there is some difficulty in deciding the Cakra for Iishvara Pran'idha'na or Pra'n'a'ya'ma, A'jina' Cakra can be easily allotted.
2) If it so happens with some Sa'dhaka during initiation that due to his good Sam'ska'ras, Mantra reacts and he begins to cry aloud, or some such other reactions occur, his Cakra of Iishvara Pran'idha'na should be pressed. If even after this, he is not normal, Sahasra'ra Cakra should be pressed associated with the mental recitation of his (A'ca'rya's own) Is't'a Mantra. But the latter method should be employed in very very uncommon and abnormal circumstances, because this causes a great setback and the aspirant will take a very long duration to regain his normal elevation. It is quite possible that he may even leave Sa'dhana'.
3) To remedy the above deficiency caused by the application of latter process, the A'ca'rya should put his left hand on the aspirant's overhead and by repeating his (Sa'dhaka's) Guru Mantra loudly he should tap over the back of left palm (put on his head), by his right hand fingers nine or ten times or at most twelve times. The aspirant will feel sleepy and will regain normalcy. He should be initiated once more.
4) If some aspirant feels fear, the moment he closes his eyes for Sa'dhana', he should be asked to demarcate the place around him with chalk or any white material associated with the utterance of his Guru Mantra, before starting Sa'dhana'.
5) If there is great difficulty in Bhu'ta Shuddhi, the Sa'dhaka should tap the ground three times before beginning his Sa'dhana'.

6) The moment Is't'a Mantra is repeated loudly or is used for material selfishness or is uttered with disrespect, it loses its efficacy and becomes dead for him. Mantra loses its vitality for him. This fact should be well explained and the aspirant must not utter the Mantra loudly. This is essential for Sa'dhana'.


CH 22 - A' S A N A 
Sthirasukhama'sana - the position in which one is comfortable, having physical comfort and mental composure, is called A'sana. In A'sanas glands, nerves, tissues, muscles and all portions of the body get operated. 
We find in nature, creatures and animals possessing glands nerves, muscles and tissues having specific qualities. Their glands secrete differently, as a consequence, each one of them has a different character of Svabha'va. For example, locust have immense group feeling, they perform all actions collectively. If man imbibes the qualities possessed by the different glands of the locust, by some process, they will also be able to inculcate some of habits of locust. On this basis, an A'sana was made, in which the posture of the body resembles that of a locust, and it is called Shalabha'sana. Shalabha' means Locust. 
Visualizing different habits in different animals, ancient Rs'is invented several A'sanas. Later on, many more A'sanas were made to affect the different glands of the body. For example, Matsyendra Na'tha, a prince of Bengal, made an A'sana, which would affect the whole body, and the A'sana has been named after him as Matsyendra'sana. The A'sana in which Viira'ca'rii Sa'dhaka used to sit in Shava-Sa'-dhana' in the burial ground has been named as Viira'sana. The A'sana in which head is kept downwards, is known as Shiirs'a'sana. We do not approve this A'sana since it causes an increase in the blood pressure and control of the temper is lost. This A'sana keeps the hair black, but the blackness will not remain if the A'sana is left. 
Everything has merits and demerits both. You must know them. You must follow the rules of A'sanas, as mentioned in Carya'carya part III

In Supplement to Carya'carya part ‚Äì III

Vya‚Äôpaka Shaoca: Root of the penis, and three joints of the trunk connected with two hands and feet should be kept cool. By your system of bathing keep the body cool, and calm, and enable it to be operated as you please. The lower portion of the body should be supported tightly, because if this lower portion of your body e.g. penis and testicles are loose, there is a chance of their veins being adversely affected, and also of hydrocele. 
Ta'masika food strengthens the lower Cakras Mu'la'dha'ra and Sva'dhis't'ha'na) which are also Ta'masika in character, Ra'jasika food will strengthen navel-Cakra, increase energy in the body, but the upper Cakras (Ana'hata and Vishuddha)will not be developed. As such, Sa'ttvika food is prescribed for those who practise A'sanas. Ra'jasika food should also be avoided in the night. Those who have not got strict control over their food, should take myrobalan in the night, if they have taken Ra'jasika food. But the amount of myrobalan must not be more than 1/4 of one myrobalan, in a day. Myrobalan must not be taken by those who are suffering from ulcer, and by ladies having menses. Myrobalan, if taken more, affects the power of procreation. Massaging, after A'sanas helps in the proper distribution of hormones secreted by the A'sanas. Suppose at times (not generally) some vital elements of the body also come out with the sweat, massaging will enable their absorption as well.
 When the temperature outside the room where you were doing A'sanas happens to be much different than the room, inhale before coming out, so that it takes sometime in inhaling again, when you are outside, after exhaling the breath you had taken within the room, and during this short span of time, your body will have adjusted with the outside atmosphere. 
A'sanas are of two categories - Sva'sthya'sana and Dhya'na'sana. Sva'sthya'sana is good for health, may or may not be good for the mind but not harmful for the latter. Dhya'na'sana is good for mind, may or may not be good for physical health but not harmful for the latter. 

1-A. In Sarva'unga'sana, the endeavour to remain in the posture continues. This being the characteristic of Mudra', and not of A'sana (which means Sthira Sukham), some people call it as Vipariitakarn'ii Mudra', since the uppermost Cakra (Sahasra'ra) lies at the lowest place and the lowermost Cakra (Mu'la'dha'ra) at the uppermost, when you are in the posture of the A'sana, and most of the Cakras are also in a position opposite to what they are in normal condition. During the posture of this A'sana, the higher Cakras get rest. 
Sahasra'ra, pituitary and thyroid invigorates the Cakras lower to them through secretions, while Mu'la'dha'ra invigorates none. During the period of this A'sana, Sahasra'ra, being at the lowest place, has to invigorate none, and gets rest, similarly other Cakras find some rest. Of course Mu'la'dha'ra gets more activated, but normally it is always at the lowest position. Provision of comparative rest to most of the glands in hormone-secretion, enables the body-machine to have some rest. As such, this A'sana has been said as Sarvarogahara (that which cures all diseases). It also helps in increasing longevity. 
At times you may feel some pain in Mu'la'dha'ra, Sva'dhis't'ha'na and Man'ipura, since their positions were reversed. This will be relieved in Shava'sana. After the age of 60, there is some change in blood pressure, and so those who get high blood pressure, must not do this. But below 60 years of age, one can do it, even if there is some change in the blood pressure. 
If the amount of salt taken is lessened, this A'sana will give better results. But it does not mean that one should not take salt. 

1-B. The 2nd. variety of this A'sana, also possesses the same qualities. But the second one is a bit less advantageous to physical health and a bit more to mental health, than the 1st. variety of Sarva'unga'sana. 
This A'sana affects the pancreas by reverting its normal position and as a result it increases the appetite. For the first four or five days you will feel more hungry. This is a medicine for dyspepsia. This A'sana increases the belly a little (just like Kumbhaka Pra'n'a'ya'ma) since the belly has to come out during the A'sana period. 

2. MATSYAMUDRA': During Sarva'unga'sana the pressure in thyroid and parathyroid was from the front side, but herein the position of the vocal cord is just the opposite and the pressure on thyroid, parathyroid and peptic gland now falls from the opposite side. The vocal cord has been fully exercised, and strengthened. The strengthening of the vocal cord enables the absorption of calcium from the food in a better way and helps those who are deficient in calcium. This is a complementary A'sana to Sarva'unga'sana, which has exercised the vocal cord in such a manner that it now requires pressure from the opposite direction. As a rule, therefore, every Sarva'unga'sana should be followed by this A'sana. Do Shava'sana after Sarva'unga'sana and thereafter, Matsyamudra'. The duration of Matsyamudra' should be half of Sarva'unga'sana. 

3. MATSYA'SANA: This enables an adjustment between the upper and lower portions of the body. As such it is rarely useful in diseases. 

4. MATSYENDRA'SANA: It affects all the eight portions (hands, feet, mouth, nose, eyes, head, ear and tongue) of the body and is said to be Sarvarogahara, like the Sarva'unga'sana. Movement of the eyes to the extreme left and extreme right affects the nerves of the eyes as well. It activates all the Cakras. It helps in all diseases. It is mainly for males. Ladies can do it but not during the period of menses or pregnancy; it would be better if ladies did not do this A'sana. Sus'umna' Ka'n'd'a is a collection of many bones. Accumulation of calcium salt within it, due to old age, changes the colour of the bones from whitish to yellowish; bone also gets hardened, as a result youthfulness shall quickly pass over and will look older much earlier. This A'sana checks the accumulation of calcium salt in the Sus'umna' Ka'n'd'a or anywhere else, as a consequence bones receive requisite calcium salt, remain white and youthfulness lasts longer. It also helps longevity but not as much as Sarva'unga'sana. 

5. VIIRA'SANA: It is good for the hair and head. Keeps the head cool and checks the falling of hair. 

6. CAKRA'SANA: You will be able to do this A'sana better if you keep the navel at high position. A'sanas which are Recaka'nta that is they will end while exhaling, and there are some which are Pu'raka'nta, that is, they will end with inhaling. As a rule, you should exhale when the navel point is drawn in and inhale when it is pushed out. Accordingly, the A'sana becomes Recaka'nta or Pu'raka'nta. This A'sana is Recaka'nta. Different glands develop at different ages from the age of twelve to eighteen years, there is an increase both in height and fat, and there is an adjustment between the two. By 16 years of age, the height reaches its maximum. Fat grows from 20 years to 30 years. You can prescribe this A'sana to boys (even of 5 years) who are deficient in weight and height, though A'sanas are not prescribed to persons below 16 years. 

7. NAOKA'SANA or DHANURA'SANA: The position of body, with reference to the navel, is just the opposite to the previous one. If both of these are done side by side this becomes a good exercise for the navel, which happens to be the controlling point of the entire body. An exercise of the same is very much advantageous to the physical, but has got little psycho-spiritual value. There are diseases which appear because of defect in Sapta Dha'tus (Rasa, Rakta, Ma'm'sa, Meda, Asthi, Majja' & Shukra). It helps in such diseases (e.g. syphilis, leprosy). 

8. UTKAT'A PASHCIMOTTA'NA'SANA: In Sam'skrta, Pashcima means back, as such this A'sana has been named Pashcimotta'na. This A'sana affects the 3 lower Cakras (Man'ipura, Sva'dhis't'ha'na and Mu'la'dha'ra) by exerting pressure over them. This helps in syphilis, also in sciatica if the disease is at the preliminary stage. It also helps if acidity in blood has increased. 

9.PARVATA'SANA or HALA'SANA: This exercises pressure over Ana'hata and Vishuddha. Doing this A'sana for a longer duration may cause pain in chest, which is only due to the exercise involved, and is not harmful. 

10. SHIVA'SANA: In this A'sana, the pressure on Vishuddha Cakra is more than in the 9th, while the pressure on the Ana'hata is less. Those who have a weak heart may do this A'sana, while they may feel difficulty in doing the 9th. 

11. VAJRA'SANA'": The position of the body being like lightening, it is called Vajra'sana. It helps those ladies and males who have become impotent in an early age. Both will have similar advantages, but the Utkat'a Vajra'sana is a bit more advantageous. 

12. SIDDHA'SANA: Put your left leg below at the Lam' point of Mu'la'dha'ra, and right leg above at Vam' point of Sva'dhis't'ha'na, eyes fixed at the A'jina' Cakra. It is the best A'sana for Sa'dhana', since by putting pressure over the controlling points of the two lowermost Cakras, which are Tamogun'ii, their activity has been suspended. This helps in concentrating the mind in Sa'dhana'. The lesson of Dhya'na must be practised while in it, and of course it can also be done while doing Iishvara Pran'idha'na. 

13. BADDHA PADMA'SANA: Since Sus'umna' Ka'n'd'a remains in its actual position while doing this A'sana, this posture is the controlling A'sana of all other A'sanas, as it helps in doing them correctly. 

14. KUKKUT'A'SANA: When you start Sa'dhana', you should let the hands lie within the legs before coming in Padma'sana, After some practice you shall be able to put your hands within the legs, even in Padma'sana. When you are in this A'sana, your posture resembles that of a hen, hence this is Kukkut'a'sana. A hen rarely suffers from T.B., that is, from lack of calcium, similarly this A'sana also saves one from the deficiency in calcium. But after the disease has appeared, it does not help. 

15. GOMUKHA'SANA: This A'sana exercises an outer pressure on Mu'la'dha'ra and Sva'dhis't'hana, as a result it helps those who suffer from semenal loss. It helps in curing the diseases cropping up due to the weakness of Sva'dhis't'ha'na Cakra, which controls the seven Dha'tus of the body. It helps in the diseases of kidney, testicles including hydrocele. It shall help them who desire to keep semen in the body. It also helps ladies to build up their health, if they have lost it. This is named as Gomukha'sana, since knees during the A'sana appear like a cow from a distance. 

16. MAYU'RA'SANA: During this A'sana the pressure of entire body falls on the navel and the elbows are pressing it. It exercises a great pressure on the pancreas, and helps in curi√¨¬•√Å47c47	4747R¬ø47474747474747474747474747≈æ47
48bjbj√êG√êG48484848484848484848484848484848484848‚Äë$48¬≤-4848¬≤-4848‚Äì4848484848484848484848484848484848484848484848484848484848√ø√ø¬§484848484848484848√ø√ø¬§484848484848484848√ø√ø¬§4848484848484848484848484848484848]4848484848‚ÄÝ 484848484848‚ÄÝ 4848‚ÄÝ 484848484848‚ÄÝ 484848484848‚ÄÝ 484848484848‚ÄÝ 484848484848‚ÄÝ 4848¬µ48484848484848484848484848484848484848484848484848484848484848484848484848D48√¨¬•√Å48c48	4848R¬ø48484848484848484848484848≈æ48
49bjbj√êG√êG49494949494949494949494949494949494949‚Äë$49¬≤-4949¬≤-4949‚Äì4949494949494949494949494949494949494949494949494949494949√ø√ø¬§494949494949494949√ø√ø¬§494949494949494949√ø√ø¬§4949494949494949494949494949494949]4949494949‚ÄÝ 494949494949‚ÄÝ 4949‚ÄÝ 494949494949‚ÄÝ 494949494949‚ÄÝ 494949494949‚ÄÝ 494949494949‚ÄÝ 4949¬µ49494949494949494949494949494949494949494949494949494949494949494949494949D49 also known as Kurma'sana.

18. SAHAJA UTKAT'A'SANA: It helps in having a balance of the body. 

19. SHALABHA'SANA: It strengthens the portion of body which lies above the navel point. Those ladies who have a practice in this A'sana, can do it, while having haemorrhage or excessive bleeding during the period of menses. But normally, ladies should not do it during the period of menses and pregnancy. Persons having weak heart should not do it, of course they can do it for strengthening the heart, after the disease has been cured. It also helps in checking the bleeding from the lower portion of the body. 

20. BHUJAUNGA'SANA: This helps in checking the bleeding from the upper portion of the body and also cures the weakness of the upper part. Heart patients can also do this A'sana. This is also a Sva'sthya'sana. 

21. SHASHA'UNGA'SANA: This A'sana is for the entire body, and exercises each and every gland and plexus. This also helps in having better meditation if those accustomed to this A'sana, sit in Sa'dhana' after doing this A'sana. Of course, the person should sit after massaging the body. 

22. BHASTRIKA'SANA: In this A'sana, stomach acts as blower (Bha'thii), as a result gas formed in it goes out. When the gas formed in the body tends to go up, people suffer from heart trouble, brain trouble, headache, the root cause being constipation. This A'sana cures these ailments by taking out the gas. 

23. JA'NUSHIRA'SANA: In this A'sana pressure is exercised upon Mu'la'dha'ra Cakra, Kuhu, Shaunkhinii and Bajra'n'ii Na'd'iis. It helps in curing piles, kidney troubles and also checks seminal loss from which some young people suffer at the age of 18 or 19 years. A young man suffering from such a disease grows very lean and thin, loses his brain power, becomes very weak in his studies. Prescribe him this A'sana, this will check the seminal loss, but shall not cure. 

24. ARDDHA SHIVA'SANA: It has the same advantage as the Shiva'sana. 

25. ARDDHA-KURMAKA'SANA or DIIRGHA PRAN'AMA: It is an A'sana especially for female diseases. It affects the lower three Cakras. It helps in curing irregular menses which cause headache, and even heart trouble. It should not be done during pregnancy. 

26. YOGA'SANA or YOGAMUDRA': It has advantages similar to A'sana no. 25, but to a lesser degree. 

27. TULA'DAN'D'A: It helps the growing young man (say, of age between 16 and 20) in developing a balanced physical body. It is very good for sportsmen. 

28. U'S'T'RA'SANA: It strengthens the portion of the body round about the waist. 

29. UTKAT'A KURMAKA'SANA: It strengthens all the joints of the body, and provides it a uniform strength. It is very much helpful in heavy weight-lifting. 

30. JAT'ILA UTKAT'A'SANA: It helps in establishing controlled balance over the nerves of lower portion of body and it is good for those who have to do P.T. and parade for longer duration. 

31. UTKA'TA BAJRA'SANA: It strengthens the knees. 

32. PA'DAHASTA'SANA: Instead of doing the A'sana by first bending towards front and back, you should bend first towards left, then to right side, and front and back shall follow them. Rest is to be done as written in Carya'carya. It helps in curing the ladies who have weak health and suffer from anemia. It is a harmless A'sana, and best for ladies. 

33. SHAVA'SANA: One for whom this is prescribed should do it for ten minutes. This is good for heart trouble. One must not do this A'sana, while sleeping, that means one should not sleep in this posture. 

34. PADMA'SANA: Under normal conditions one should fix one's eyes at the tip of the nose, while doing this A'sana. 

35. KARMA'SANA: It should also be done, first by going to the left, then towards the right and then towards the front and back. It is best for developing the body. It makes one active and energetic. 

36. JINA'NA'SANA: This cures intellectual dullness. 

37. BHA'VA'SANA: This inspires some worldly knowledge in those who lack it. 

38. GRANTHIMUKTA'SANA: This helps in curing a mild paralysis, due to which nerve (of ear, nose or any such place) is not working. It also helps a man, if he is very much lean and thin. 

39. GARUD'A'SANA: It helps in lessening the weight of the body. 

40. DVISAMAKON'A'SANA: It is better for high jump, low jump, full jump. 

41. TEJAS A'SANA: It increases the energy of man and helps him in acquiring strength from the food he takes. 

42. MAN'D'UKA'SANA: It enables the man to live for many days without food, as some animals live in the hibernation period. It is purely a Sva'sthya'sana and can be done like the four generals after disease. 

N.B.:

    1. Matsya Mudra' and Jina'na'sana are best for developing memory. 

    2. Generally, do not sit for Dhya'na and other subtler processes of your Sa'dhana', just after doing A'sanas, either take some rest after you have done the A'sanas or do them after Dhya'na. 



CH 21 ‚Äë M U D R A'

A'sana ‚Äë A'sana is a posture which affects the nerves, tissues, glands, and all the organs of body; at the same time there is physical comfort and mental composure.

Mudra' ‚Äë Mudra' affects your nerves and muscles and there may or may not be physical comfort and mental composure. During the posture of Mudra', you have to continue your conscious endeavour to remain in that posture whereas in an A'sana you need not after coming to the A'sana posture.

Bandha ‚Äë Bandha affects the nerves only, and there may or may not be physical comfort and mental composure. Here also you have to continue with your endeavour, as in Mudra'.

Mudra's are also of two kinds ‚Äë Sva'sthya Mudra' and Dhya'na Mudra'. Sva'sthya Mudra' is good for health and helps in expressing Bha'va (ideation). Dhya'na Mudra' helps in spiritual progress, but is not detrimental to health or expression of Bha'va.
Mudra' is the externalization of Bha'va (ideation), the moment you have expressed a Bha'va through Mudra', you have let out your Bha'va and the same has been transformed into a Mudra'. There are certain Mudra's in spiritual Sa'dhana' which are exclusively internal and do not have any external expression, they remain confined in the mind ‚Äë such as Amrta Mudra' and A'nanda Mudra', which you practise in Vishes'a Yoga. Keeping the mind in a particular state, is also a Mudra', Satsaunga is also a subtle Mudra'.
Why is Satsaunga also called a Mudra'? When you go for Satsaunga, you have to leave Asatsaunga, and so to avail yourself of Satsaunga, you eschew Asatsaunga, otherwise you shall not be able to have Satsaunga. Thus Satsaunga involves two aspects ‚Äë first, eschewal of Asatsaunga and secondly accepting Satsaunga. Eschewal of Asatsaunga does not mean Satsaunga. Suppose you are alone, you have no Asatsaunga, but this does not mean that you had Satsaunga. You have left stealing, this does not mean that you have become a Sa'dhu.

Satsaungena bhavenmuktirasatsaunges'u bandhanam
Asatsaungamudran'am ya' sa' mudra' parikiirtita'. 

 	Satsaunga leads to liberation and Asatsaunga causes bondage. Leaving Asatsaunga is called Mudra' without which one cannot have Siddhi in Satsaunga, which means one cannot be established in Sva'dhya'ya. To a Sa'dhaka, Satsaunga is a valuable Mudra', which involves leaving and abstaining from Asatsaunga.
 	Physical Mudra's can be innumerable since one can express one's innumerable ideations through innumerable modes, everyone of which can be called a Mudra'. Indian dance is based on Mudra' which the dancer employs to express his/her different ideations. Thus oriental dance is based on Mudra', whereas the occidental one is basically rhythmic. Mudra' is a strong medium of expressing Bha'va, where as rhythm is a very weak medium.
 	In the field of Sa'dhana', only those Mudra's have been accepted which have a psycho‚Äëspiritual importance. Some of the ancient Ta'ntrikas did not understand the meaning of Madya. Hormone secretion from the pineal gland is divine Madya or nectar, which is extremely internal and not at all external. But those who were evil‚Äëminded, started drinking wine, in the name of Tantra. Kun'd'alinii is sleeping divinity and Kun'd'alinii also means something coiled. Due to utter ignorance, some of them would eat Jilebii (Coiled Sweet) and feel that they are doing Kun'd'alinii Sa'dhana'. Id'a', Piungala' and Sus'umna' are also known as Gaunga', Yamuna' and Sarasvatii. They meet at Mu'la'dhara and change direction from A'jina. Mu'la'dha'ra is known as Yukta Triven'ii and A'jina' as Mukta Triven'ii, to which the Sa'dhakas elevate their Kula Kun'd'alinii.

(IN SUPPLEMENT TO CARYA'CARYA III)

1.UD'D'AYANA: It affects the pancreas, kidney, lower belly, Sva'dhis't'ha'na and Man'ipura Cakra, and helps in curing the diseases of the region e.g. hydrocele, hernia, piles, and also stomach diseases like dysentery, Diarrhoea; especially incurable dysentry can be cured if practised for longer duration.
 Persons having disease in the upper portion of body should not do it, since while pushing the lower belly and belly, upper portion is affected. So persons suffering from advanced stage of T.B. should not do this A'sana. But after they are cured they should do it, since it keeps the stomach in a sound condition which shall help a patient of T.B.

2. BANDHATRAYA YOGA: Kuhu Na'd'ii controls the flow of urine. Shaunkhinii controls the flow of stool, Ashvinii controls the anus, Bajra'n'ii controls the mouth of genital organ.

How to control Kuhu Na'd'ii? 
The controlling point lies at the centre of the root of the genital organ. It is also the controlling point of Apa Piit'ha, and is also pronounced as Vam'. Make your mind seated at Vam', and thereafter think that you are pulling up this point above. Kuhu Na'd'ii will be automatically pulled up.

JA'LANDHARA BANDHA:
Ham' is the controlling point of A'ka'sha‚ÄëPiit'ha. Make your mind seated at the point Ham'; thereafter put the pressure of all the power of your neck at this point. As a consequence all the nerves and veins of the area shall be disconnected from the portion of the body round about it, and sensation shall also remain concentrated in this sphere. The nerves shall get swollen and become red. You have caught hold of all the nerves through your mental force. Such kind of Mudra' is called Bandha and since you have caught hold of a Ja'la (network) of nerves, it is called Ja'landhara Bandha.
 	In ancient days there was a Yoginii named Ja'landharii who invented this Mudra'. The place where she practised Sa'dhana' is still known as Jullundhar.
 	This Mudra' enables you to have a control over Kuhu, which enables an indirect control over Shaunkhinii, since both are controlled by the same mental force (This is the reason that when you pass stool, urine also passes away).

Maha'bandha: You should not leave your breath in Maha'bandha, when you have done Ja'landhara Bandha. If you do so the muscles of the neck shall get loosened. And if you shall leave the breath, after releasing Ja'landhara Bandha, the muscles and nerves shall get stronger.
 	Remember it as a rule that when you are in a state of Bandha, never inhale, nor exhale.

Maha'vedha: How to control Shaunkhinii? Lam' is the controlling point of Mu'la'dha'ra, make your mind seated at that point and pull it up mentally. It shall automatically cause Shaunkhinii to be drawn up.
 	Through the pressure of your hands, keep on pulling up Shaunkinii and Kuhu with the help of finger, from below to upwards, and not vice versa. This process of appliance of force shall check the flow of Rakta and that of sensation from upwards to downwards.
 	When you release Kuhu and Shaunkhinii, at the end of the Maha'vedha, do it mentally thinking that they have gone to their respective places.
 	All the above three have to be practised together otherwise the purpose is not served. They are the best for physical health, only a bit advantageous for mental health. It helps in curing all the diseases at Ana'hata and below. It helps in curing all the diseases cropping up due to a defect in the seven Dha'tus. It is also useful in dysentry, diarrhoea, dyspepsia, seminal loss.

3. PA'RTHIVII MUDRA': Mind will be seated at Lam' Biija and inhale and exhale to your full capacity. It brings control over the legs. Some persons are unable to walk in the old age, and some even in earlier years due to weakness in the legs and are unable to walk. All such persons shall be benefited by this mudra'. A person accustomed to this Mudra' shall be able to walk easily in his old age as well.

4.A'MBHASII MUDRA': Mind will remain at Vam' point. It helps in curing the defect in the seven Dha'tus, seminal diseases, hydrocele, and keeps the skin oily and glassy.

5.A'GNEYII MUDRA': Mind will remain at the Ram' point. It controls the pancreas and helps in curing diseases cropping up due to a weak pancreas.

6.VA'YAVII MUDRA': Keep the mind at Yam' point ‚Äë the controlling point of Ana'hata. It strengthens the glands and sub‚Äëglands of the Ana'hata and helps in curing the diseases of the area under jurisdiction of Ana'hata Cakra indirectly.
 	All the Mudra's from Pa'rthivii to Va'yavii, affect the glands directly and the glands help in curing the diseases.
 	Since you are not breathing in these Mudra's, as you do in Pra'n'a'ya'ma (i.e. first through left nostril and then with right nostril and so on) they are known as Mudra' and not Pra'n'a'ya'ma.

7. A'KA'SHII MUDRA': Keep your mind in Ham' point. It affects all the sixteen glands situated at this plexus and indirectly helps in curing the diseases of vocal cord, thyroid and parathyroid glands.

8. MA'NASII: Keep your mind in T'ham' point. Do not think of the piit'ha. This can be done in Viira'sana as well, in that case your hands will remain at the nipples. It can also be done in Shava'sana, in that case, hands will lie at the sides.

9. AGNISA'RA: The rule to increase the number in Agnisa'ra is once a week. It is Sva'sthya Mudra' and helps in curing all the diseases of the stomach.

10. KA'KACAINCU: It should be done facing water. It is useful mainly in diseases and keeps the blood circulation of upper belly, artery, nerves and veins in normal conditions. When upper belly functions properly, lower belly automatically functions properly.

11. TRIMUN'D'A: It affects all the five Piit'has, as such it is a Mudra' for the whole body.

12‚ÄëA. ASHVINII: You have to contract and expand the last portion of anus, physically. It helps in curing hernia, dysentry, piles and in case there is some wound in the annus.

12‚ÄëB. BAJRAOLII: Amraolii and Sahjaolii ‚Äë All are practised in the same manner except that you have to put Bhasma (ashes) on the entire body while doing Amraolii. You should not do this Mudra' when your urine is opaque or translucent. Do it only when it is clear.

13. VASTI MUDRA': It is of two kinds:
 a) One is difficult and includes Netti, Dhaotii and Vasti.
 b) Sit in Utkat'a'sana. Catch your waist, with your hands. Pull in mentally Mu'la'dha'ra, Sva'dhis't'ha'na and Mani'ipura, simultaneously. Pull out, again pull in, pull out, till you feel some pain, after which lie down in Shava'sana, you will have no pain just after.
 It affects the belly and lower belly.



 CH 22 ‚Äë P R A'N' A' Y A' M A

 Pra'n'a'ya'ma has been derived as Pra'n'a + A ‚Äë Yama + Ghain = Pra'n'a'ya'ma which means the controlling theory of Pra'n'ah. All actions, physical or mental are performed with the help of energy, and one derives this energy from food, light, water and air. But the activation of the energy depends upon the movement of Pra'na Shakti (Vital Energy). When there is no movement of Pra'n'a Shakti in a dead body, even if you put it in the light and give it food still it will not work. The external expression of Pra'n'a Shakti is accomplished through the medium of Indriyas (motor and sensory organs). As you move your hand or walk, understand that behind all these actions lie the Indriyas, which are working under the direction of the mind. Mind flows in accordance with the flow of Pra'n'a, that means according to inhaling and exhaling. That is why it has been said ‚Äë
Indriya'n'a'm manona'thah manona'tho'stu ma'rutah
 Mind is the master of Indriyas and mind itself is controlled by Va'yu. Va'yu enables respiration and respiration creates a rhythm according to which mind flows. Vibration of mind depends upon this rhythm. When one is engaged in some vigorous physical activities, like jumping or running, the rhythm in the physical body is increased, simultaneously the flow of Pra'n'a Shakti also grows more while adjusting with the flow of the body. While running people breathe deeply and the effect on the mind is just the reciprocal, the more is the speed of respiration, the less is the mental power of thinking and receiving. 
 Conversely, if the mind is in some deeper thought and if its flow has increased, respiration shall grow very slowly. If you visualize your respiration after being engaged in deeper thought or after doing your Dha'ran'a' and Dhya'na, you will find that your respiration is going on very slowly. The more the mental flow or the more the concentration of mind, the less is the speed of respiration. Conversely, if the respiration is in speed, mental concentration is less. If a man eats something of his taste while running, he will be unable to enjoy the taste. He has eaten it physically but not mentally. It is only when one sits calmly and eats, that he can enjoy the taste. While running you cannot catch the fine music going on. 
 Spiritual practice also depends upon mental concentration which alone can enable you to proceed ahead towards the spiritual goal. Mental concentration can be helped by Pra'n'a Shakti, if the latter is under your control ‚Äë meaning thereby that you have attained a control over Pra'n'a Shakti by which you can increase or decrease its speed. When you are practising Kumbhaka (hold the breath within or without) you have suspended your Pra'n'a Shakti for the time being. When you wil√¨¬•√Å55c55	5555R¬ø55555555555555555555555555≈æ55
56bjbj√êG√êG56565656565656565656565656565656565656‚Äë$56¬≤-5656¬≤-5656‚Äì5656565656565656565656565656565656565656565656565656565656√ø√ø¬§565656565656565656√ø√ø¬§565656565656565656√ø√ø¬§5656565656565656565656565656565656]5656565656‚ÄÝ 565656565656‚ÄÝ 5656‚ÄÝ 565656565656‚ÄÝ 565656565656‚ÄÝ 565656565656‚ÄÝ 565656565656‚ÄÝ 5656¬µ56565656565656565656565656565656565656565656565656565656565656565656565656D56√¨¬•√Å56c56	5656R¬ø56565656565656565656565656≈æ56
57bjbj√êG√êG57575757575757575757575757575757575757‚Äë$57¬≤-5757¬≤-5757‚Äì5757575757575757575757575757575757575757575757575757575757√ø√ø¬§575757575757575757√ø√ø¬§575757575757575757√ø√ø¬§5757575757575757575757575757575757]5757575757‚ÄÝ 575757575757‚ÄÝ 5757‚ÄÝ 575757575757‚ÄÝ 575757575757‚ÄÝ 575757575757‚ÄÝ 575757575757‚ÄÝ 5757¬µ57575757575757575757575757575757575757575757575757575757575757575757575757D57Shakti or respiration, there is no chance of deep concentration or mental suspension. As such to have mental concentration, you create a congenial situation through artificial process, and this artificial process is known as Pra'n'a'ya'ma. Pra'n'a'nyamatyesah Pra'n'a'ya'mah ‚Äë Pra'n'a'h yamayati ya sah Pra'n'a'ya'ma. The phenomenon through which one brings the Pra'n'a Shakti under control is known as Pra'n'a'ya'ma. Or Tasmin satisha'va'sa prashva'sayorgati vicchedah Pra'n'a'ya'mah ‚Äë Respiration is going on under its natural system of control, the process by which you change the system and control it to flow as you wish, is known as Pra'n'a'ya'ma.
 Since ancient times, the accepted formula of Pra'n'a'ya'ma is 1:4:2. Pra'n'a'ya'ma has a close association with Va'yu, as such the controlling centre of Pra'n'a'ya'ma should be such, with which Va'yu has a direct contact, and Va'yu has direct contact with heart and lungs, and with the rest of the body it has an indirect relation. Ana'hata, therefore, is the natural Cakra for physical Pra'n'a'ya'ma, where you are not concerned with the psychic aspect. Constant practice of Pra'n'a'ya'ma at Ana'hata will adjust and accustom all the glands, sub‚Äëglands, joints of the body, its blood pressure. Till such a stage has not been reached, Kumbhaka Pra'n'a'ya'ma should not be taught to the Sa'dhaka, he should only do Sa'dha'ran'a Pra'n'a'ya'ma (without Kumbhaka). This is the reason why I have instructed you to take permission before teaching Kumbhaka Pra'n'a'ya'ma. One who is doing it without taking permission, is taking risk over oneself.
There are some more points which are also kept in mind before teaching Sakumbhaka Pra'n'a'ya'ma. They are: ‚Äë
1) For those whose blood pressure is low, Sahaja Pra'n'a'ya'ma is extremely beneficial, but for those who have got high blood pressure, it is extremely harmful. Before prescribing this Pra'n'a'ya'ma, therefore, blood pressure should be confirmed.
2) If one experiences headache, during Sa'dhana', one should not practise Pra'n'a'ya'ma. Of course, one will do other lessons and when there is no more headache, one can do Pra'n'a'ya'ma.
3) In Sakumbhaka Pra'n'a'ya'ma counting must be kept in view very strictly, because the span of time must not vary. Prescribed number in Pu'raka, Kumbhaka and Recaka should be counted not with the help of numerals but with the help of Is't'a Mantra brought within the scope of Sargam.
4) The inner portion of body gets dry by this Pra'n'a'ya'ma, the Sa'dhaka practising it, therefore, should take fatty materials like milk products etc.
 
5) After being established in Kevalii Kumbhaka and developing an absolute devotion for the goal, one should be prescribed this Sakumbhaka Pra'n'a'ya'ma. Because flickering of mind towards unwanted directions will harm the Sa'dhaka.
6) Practice of Sakumbhaka Pra'n'a'ya'ma affects the belly to become pot‚Äëlike. If the Sa'dhaka has to check it, he should practise Pu'raka'nta A'sanas e.g. Pashcimotta'na'sana. Where does Pra'n'a'ya'ma affect directly? It affects the whole area in which Pra'n'a Va'yu is active. Pra'n'a Va'yu resides from Vishuddha to navel point, from navel to anus functions Apa'na. In the navel resides Sama'na Va'yu, which maintains a balance between Pra'n'a and Apa'na. When you inhale, there is pressure upon the Sama'na Va'yu from above by Pra'n'a Va'yu, and from below by Apa'na Va'yu, (as depicted in the picture) and vice versa is the case when you exhale.







 As a consequence, when you practise Pra'n'a'ya'ma, all the three Va'yu are affected, and thereby all the glands, plexii and sub‚Äëglands lying in their scope or in their path, are affected.
 These glands and sub‚Äëglands control different propensities. That means, they are directly connected with the mind. The relation of these glands with the mind is also accomplished through pituitary and pineal glands. These two uppermost glands have direct relationship with the lower Cakras. As you know that the higher Cakras influence the lower ones and are themselves seats of mind and A'tma' respectively. Thus the glands, sub‚Äëglands and plexii are strongly associated with the mind, as such when the glands are affected by Pra'n'a'ya'ma, mind is automatically affected. Normally, the mind influences the glands and sub‚Äëglands, so much so that the hormone secretes in accordance with the mental thought. But in Pra'n'a'ya'ma the opposite is the case, the mind is influenced by the activation of the glands, it is a physico‚Äëpsychic approach.
 Uda'na Va'yu is in the vocal cord. The vocal cord controls Vaekharii Tattva which affects the expression of sound through the mouth. Thus Uda'na Va'yu is related to the expression of sound, which is always influenced by Pra'n'a'ya'ma. It means that Pra'n'a'ya'ma also affects Uda'na Va'yu. Vya'na Va'yu has its contact with all the plexii and controls the flow of all fluids through Na'd'iis, veins, arteries, nerves, etc. throughout the entire body. The flow implies the presence of Va'yu, otherwise the flow is not at all possible. Pra'n'a Va'yu is converted into Vya'na Va'yu. 
This means Pra'n'a'ya'ma affects Vya'na as well, and the flow of all the fluids through Na'd'iis. The vibration of the haemoglobin and each and every particle in the physical body is vibrating according to the rhythm of Pra'n'a'ya'ma. When adjustment has been accomplished between the rhythmic flow of Pra'n'a'ya'ma and vibrational flow of all the glands, sub‚Äëglands, arteries, veins and each and every particle of the body, then only Kumbhaka Pra'n'a'ya'ma can be taught. It may take 6 months, 1 year or 2 years to reach that stage.
 Thus Pra'n'a, Apa'na, Sama'na, Uda'na and Vya'na Va'yus are directly affected by Pra'n'a'ya'ma. The rhythmic impact of the internal Va'yus affects the five external Va'yus (Na'ga, Ku'rma, Krkara, Devadatta and Dhanainjaya) instantly. For example, when under the influence of Apa'na Va'yu a portion of the food is transformed into stool and urine, and goes below, as a consequence, a vacuum is created in the upper portion, and to fill up the same, some other Va'yu enters the place. This latter Va'yu is known as Devadatta, whose scope increases gradually, and it affects the Man'ipura as well wherein lies the Vrtti of Ks'udha'‚ÄëTrs'n'a' . 
 An impact on the gland of Trs'n'a' vibrates the conscious mind and there emerges the feeling "I am hungry". Man'ipura controls the Vrtti of Lajja', Pishunata', Iirs'ya', Sus'upti, Vis'a'da, Ka's'a'ya, Trs'n'a', Moha, Ghrn'a' and Bhaya. The effect on Trs'n'a' then and there creates the feeling of being hungry. Now suppose, one is not having clear motions, scope of Devadatta does not increase, in that case one will not feel hungry and thirsty. 
How does Dhanainjaya Va'yu work? Different nerve‚Äëcells, nerve‚Äëfibres, blood‚Äëarteries, and glands of the human body get properly operated more in the sunlight, and get tired, and moonlight increases this tiredness. As a consequence men sleep during the night under the influence of Dhananjaya, and it is also best for them to sleep. There are certain animals whose nerves, nerve‚Äëfibres, blood‚Äëarteries and glands etc. get operated during moonlight (e.g. owl, moles), during sunlight they can get operated so vigorously that they run away from sunlight and live in some dark place during day hours.
 Pra'n'a'ya'ma physically affects the glands, nerves, nerve‚Äë fibres, sub‚Äëglands and also the flow of all fluids (Rasa, Rakta urine etc.), that is, all the liquid matter of the entire body. Pra'n'a'ya'ma is always done after having the mind concentrated over some Cakra which gets affected directly. In ordinary Pra'n'a'ya'ma more importance is paid to Ana'hata, but under especial circumstances and at particular times, you concentrate your mind over other Cakras as well, even on Mu'la'dha'ra and Sva'dhis't'ha'na. In Vishes'a Yoga mind is concentrated on several more Cakras during Pra'n'a'ya'ma, as a consequence all these Cakras get benefited. 
In spiritual practice you find that on the physical side Ana'hata gets the first chance, since Pra'n'a'‚ÄëVa'yu is basically concerned with the lungs and heart, whose controlling point lies in Ana'hata. But you will also find that the controlling point is also affected in spiritual Pra'n'a'ya'ma. This directly affects the A'jina' Cakra (Pituitary), that is, the conscious mind. 
You will find with a Sa'dhaka who practises Pra'n'a'ya'ma a very basic characteristic that before doing any improper act they feel they should not do it, and if due to weakness of their Iccha' Shakti they are unable to check themselves and do the evil act, instantly they start repenting. This is the direct effect of doing Pra'n'a'ya'ma . With the mind concentrated on the Ajina Cakra, Pra'n'a'ya'ma affects the particular cakra which is your point of concentration during Pra'n'a'ya'ma directly, and other Cakras indirectly. 
 It also affects the entire body, since the controlling rhythm is the same. The first Pa'n'd'ava, Yudhis't'hira suggested that concentrating the mind on controlling points Lam', Vam', Ram', Yam', Ham', T'ham' etc. would bring better results. Yogiis experienced practically that this had a better impact. Since then, it has been decided that the point of concentration during Pra'n'a'ya'ma should be the controlling point of a particular Cakra ‚Äë if in Mu'la'dha'ra, it should be Lam', for Sva'dhis't'ha'na ‚Äë Vam', for Man'ipura ‚Äë Ram', for Ana'hata ‚Äë Yam', for Vishuddha‚ÄëHam' and for A'jina' ‚Äë T'ham'. since then it is known as `Yudhis't'hira Vidya'.
If somebody is practising Pra'na'a'ya'ma to have control over five internal and five external va'yus, with no aim to have its impact on the mind and spirit, he/she achieves control over the respiratory organs and the limbs. If he is pracising Kumbhaka Pra'n'a'ya'ma (Shu'nya or Pu'rn'a) and is able to do this is Pra'n'a'ya'ma for a longer time, he can live beneath the earth for 10, 20 or 30 days or can live without food. Under such circumstances, body is just like a dead body, since Pra'n'a ‚Äë Shakti has been suspended. This is known as Jad'a‚ÄëSama'dhi, and the Sa'dhana' through which this control is attained is known as Hat'ha Yoga. To a spiritual aspirant, Hat'ha Yoga has no importance, since the period of Jad'a‚ÄëSama'dhi is just like the period of death and is meaningless.
 There are two ways of Pra'n'a'ya'ma ‚Äë one can be done without Cosmic Ideation as taught by Hat'ha Yoga, and the other with Cosmic Ideation, as you practise.
 What is Hat'ha Yoga? "Ha" is the acoustic root of ethereal factor and "T'ha" is the acoustic root of mind. So Hat'ha Yoga means a process by which one controls the physical energy by mental force. His mental energies are utilized or channelized for having control over the physical forces. There is no thought of spirituality here. This Avidya' Sa'dhana' ‚Äë Ra'ks'asii or A'surii Vidya'. This is Hat'hena kurute Karma. Ha is the acoustic expression of sun and A'ka'sha, and T'ha is the acoustic expression of both, mind and moon and so it is also Hat'hena Su'rya Candrena; when "Ha" is being operated by T'ha forcibly, it is called Hat'ha Yoga. So when Pra'n'a'ya'ma is practised without Cosmic Ideation, it is called Hat'ha Pra'n'a'ya'ma. It does not help in spiritual elevation. But when Pra'n'a'ya'ma is done with Cosmic Ideation, it is called Sabiija Pra'n'a'ya'ma. In the Sha'nti Parva of Maha'bha'rata, Yudhis't'hira, in reply to a query on Pra'n'a'ya'ma, answers that the spiritual aspirants should practise Sabiija Pra'na'ya'ma and not Ha'tha Pra'n'a'ya'ma.
 When the control over breath in Hat'ha Yoga shall end, man will degenerate into animality. The scope of Ra'ja Yoga extends from physical to mental and from mental to qualified spiritual, and Ra'ja'dhira'ja Yoga implies within it from physical to mental, mental to qualified spiritual and from the qualified spiritual to non‚Äëqualified state i.e. Nirgun'a'‚ÄëSthiti. A'nanda Ma'rga process of Sa'dhana' is the Sa'dhana' of Ra'ja'dhira'ja Yoga. Those who attain mental power only, may harm the world. If an Avidya' Ta'ntrika is possessed with the Pra'n'a'ya'ma Sa'dhana' and attains the powers out of it, he shall become a terror for the society. It so happens because of some reasons. While practising Pra'n'a'ya'ma, the Va'yu gets concentrated at a particular place in Kumbhaka and mental stamina also gets concentrated at that place, while releasing the breath or Va'yu, ectoplasmic potentiality is also released simultaneously and it can directly affect the external physicality. Harm can be easily done to the object ideated upon, while releasing the Va'yu, for with the release of breath, the ectoplasmic cell is also released and it can affect the object directly. Such a performance is done after Kumbhaka.
 In A'nanda Ma'rga Sa'dhana' you associate Pra'n'a'ya'ma with Cosmic Ideation and lead yourself towards spiritual elevation.
Ka'ma, Artha, Dharma and Moks'a are Caturvarga:
 Ka'ma comprises physical ambitions.
 Artha comprises physical and psychic desires.
 Dharma comprises qualified spiritual.
 Moks'a comprises non‚Äëqualified spiritual.
 Ra'ja Yoga aims at the first 3 only, where as A'nanda Ma'rga Sa'dhana', being Ra'ja'dhira'ja Yoga, aims at all 4.
 The number of respiration happens to be from 21,000 to 24,000 in a day. Consciously or unconsciously, the system of respiration is always Pu'raka, Kumbhaka (for a small duration), Recaka, again Kumbhaka (for a small duration), and then again Pu'raka. It continues on. Thus there goes on speed‚Äëpause; speed‚Äëpause. Pu'raka is speed, Kumbhaka is pause and again Recaka is speed. Indriyas and mind accept things during the period of speed and assimilate them during the period of pause. In every sphere of this universe, you will find the phenomenon of speed and pause. You will find no motion in a straight line, rather every movement is systaltic and pulsative. You throw something in the sky, when it shall fall, it shall fall down in a pulsative motion. Your nerves are pulsative, and if they be not so, you cannot remain alive, be it animate or inanimate, it is all in a flux of pulsative motion. 
 Since assimilation is accomplished only during the period of pause, if there be no pause‚Äëperiod how can you remain alive? You take food in the phase of speed, but you assimilate them in the phase of pause. You have read something with your eyes, but the mind will assimilate it only during the period of pause. Assimilation means subjectivization. You know that Pu'raka is followed by Pu'rna' Kumbhaka (of a short duration) and Recaka is also followed by a Shu'nya Kumbhaka (of a short duration). You do not breathe in all at once after you have exhaled, in between there is a period of pause, when your breath is out of your body. Scripture describes this period of Shu'nya‚ÄëKumbhaka as death. When someone is unable to inhale in the same body from which he has exhaled, it is called death. An old man exhales in the last moment and inhales again in the mother's womb, when he takes a new birth in the form of an embryo. A person actually dies as many times as he exhales, but commonly you call it death, when he is unable to inhale in the same body from which he had exhaled.
 When you practise Pra'n'a'ya'ma, and increase the period of Kumbhaka, you increase the phase of pause, or the period of assimilation. A man is hardly able to assimilate 1% of the things in whose contact he comes across. The percentage of utilization of potentialities given to man by God is negligible. When you increase the phase of pause in Pra'n'a'ya'ma, through Kumbhaka, mind has also to remain in a state of pause under the pressure of circumstances, and thus it gets habituated to remain in a longer duration of pause, and develops a strength for the same. This is a very great significance of Kumbhaka Pra'n'a'ya'ma.
 Before doing any physical action, a person inhales or exhales and thus unconsciously goes in the phase of Kumbhaka (Pu'rn'a or Shu'nya). When you climb up a mountain, you do Pu'rn'a Kumhaka unknowingly. But if you do the same consciously, you will get less tired. Though, Pu'rn'a and Shu'nya Kumbhaka, both are periods of pause, in physical actions, Pu'rn'a Kumbhaka helps you more than the Shu'nya Kumbhaka, whereas in the psycho‚Äëspiritual realm, Shu'nya Kumbhaka is more helpful. To a Sa'dhaka, both are equally good, since he has to remain in a state of pause.
 As Pra'n'a'ya'ma is itself a rhythmic phenomenon, one should practise it in the rhythm of an Is't'a Mantra. The prescribed number in Pu'raka, Kumbhaka and Recaka should be counted not with numerals but with the help of Is't'a Mantra brought within the scope of `Sargam'.
 Iishvara Pran'idha'na causes the skin to become thinner. Correct Pra'n'a'ya'ma will enable the body to conserve more heat, and practise of correct Pra'n'a'ya'ma will make the body glassy. Since in Pra'n'a'ya'ma, the internal organs of the body are exercised upon, the environment should be clean. There should be no dirt or smoke. The Sa'dhaka should avoid these when he is in the preliminary stages of practising Pra'n'a'ya'ma. At the preliminary stages, with the expression of energy at the extremities of the body being less, one feels weakness (though actually he is not weak) in such a state. Therefore, he should avoid being in the intense sun, dirt, smoke, and cyclonic weather. He should also avoid a strong current of air.
The best season for starting Pra'n'a'ya'ma is the middle or end of any season. One should not be instructed to begin Pra'n'a'ya'ma when some new weather is approaching, that is during a change of season. At very high altitudes also, Pra'n'a'ya'ma cannot be practised.
 Perfection in Kaevalii Kumbhaka is signified by the fact that one can practise Pra'n'a'ya'ma in this stage without using the fingers if he so wishes. For Pra'n'a'ya'ma and Dhya'na, Siddha'sana is best suited. In the practising stage of Pra'n'a'ya'ma one should have a friendly feeling towards a√¨¬•√Å61c61	6161R¬ø61616161616161616161616161≈æ61
62bjbj√êG√êG62626262626262626262626262626262626262‚Äë$62¬≤-6262¬≤-6262‚Äì6262626262626262626262626262626262626262626262626262626262√ø√ø¬§626262626262626262√ø√ø¬§626262626262626262√ø√ø¬§6262626262626262626262626262626262]6262626262‚ÄÝ 626262626262‚ÄÝ 6262‚ÄÝ 626262626262‚ÄÝ 626262626262‚ÄÝ 626262626262‚ÄÝ 626262626262‚ÄÝ 6262¬µ62626262626262626262626262626262626262626262626262626262626262626262626262D62√¨¬•√Å62c62	6262R¬ø62626262626262626262626262≈æ62
63bjbj√êG√êG63636363636363636363636363636363636363‚Äë$63¬≤-6363¬≤-6363‚Äì6363636363636363636363636363636363636363636363636363636363√ø√ø¬§636363636363636363√ø√ø¬§636363636363636363√ø√ø¬§6363636363636363636363636363636363]6363636363‚ÄÝ 636363636363‚ÄÝ 6363‚ÄÝ 636363636363‚ÄÝ 636363636363‚ÄÝ 636363636363‚ÄÝ 636363636363‚ÄÝ 6363¬µ63636363636363636363636363636363636363636363636363636363636363636363636363D63ation should not be Ana'hata and above it, that is it should be either Ram' or below to avoid pressure on heart. After the disease has been cured, he can do as usual.

 IN SUPPLEMENT TO CARYA'CARYA PART III

1. Vasti Kumbhaka: Sit in the posture in which people sit for passing stool, in the Indian style. When lymph enters the testicles, it is converted into semen and spermatozoa is also formed here. The movement of lymph in a wrong direction, often causes some disease of the testicles. Semen develops many glands. This is the reason why those who undergo an operation in Family Planning, and check the passage of Shukra Na'd'ii suffer from certain psychic complexes. Shukra Na'd'ii is the Na'd'ii situated at both sides of the testicles and it carries lymph in the testicles. The duration of Pu'rn'a Kumbhaka in this Pra'n'a'ya'ma is 20 seconds (that is the time taken in counting up to 20). It helps in curing hydrocele, and also helps in curing those youths who suffer by excessive seminal loss between the age of 16 and 20 years.
2. Shiitalii Pra'n'a'ya'ma: While inhaling through the tongue you should do hissing sound. This is banned at noon. This helps in curing the diseases which crop up due to defect in blood e.g. gonorrhoea, syphilis.
3. Shiitaka'rii Kumbhaka: It affects the vocal cord, and therefore helps in curing the defect in sound and also stammering.
 Use of mouth in inhaling or exhaling is prohibited in normal Pra'n'a'ya'ma, but in (2) & (3) it has been allowed. As such one must not do normal Pra'n'a'ya'ma one hour before or after the above two Pra'n'a'ya'mas.
4. Karkat'a Pra'n'a'ya'ma: This is helpful in curing the pain of diseases like cancer or gout. After being cured, one should leave this Pra'n'a'ya'ma. This is also prohibited in the night or midnight.
5. Paks'abaddha Pra'n'a'ya'ma: The point of concentration shall be the joint nearest to the affected portion of the body but in between the affected portion and the heart. The point of concentration (that means the joint) will go on changing, as the disease goes down as if you are chasing the disease, and must be done gradually on every joint of the affected portion, till the last joint has not been reached; meaning thereby that, if the point of concentration was taken as arm joint in the beginning, then when it is brought downwards, it must be done even on the last joint of the finger.


CH 23 ‚Äë P R A T Y A' H A' R A
 Pratya'ha'ra has been derived as Prati‚ÄëA'‚ÄëHr+Ghain. A'ha'ra means to assimilate or take something within and Pratya'ha'ra means to take back again what you have once given out, to take back again what you have vomited. You have abused somebody, he gets angry, you reply back, "I withdraw". This withdrawal is Pratya'ha'ra. 
 Human mind is guided by certain fundamental psychic principles. Every entity, which has a mind, has a basic psychology and is always propelled by these fundamentals of basic psychology. They are ‚Äë A'ha'ra (food), Nidra' (sleep), Bhaya (fear) and Maethuna (procreation). Every living being follows the fundamental principles of this basic psychology. These have been accepted as natural, and not to be despised. Every living being has some especial (particular) psychology as well by which you discriminate them, for example the nature of monkey, deer, buffalo and horse differ with one another, and one has to take care of their nature, while behaving with them. But, A'ha'ra, Nidra', Bhaya and Maethuna come under basic psychology and are applicable to all. But man has to elevate himself, and imbibe in himself a sentient nature. As such, he has to adjust and control these four aspects, and get himself established in Brahma Bha'va, which is known as Bra'hma‚ÄëSadbha'va. After adjusting these basic four into one ideation, one has to divert it towards Brahma Bha'va. This process is called Brahma‚ÄëSadbha'va. 
 If a man shall not control these four, and observe Brahma Bha'va, these basic four have got the natural tendency to grow more and more. It is extremely dangerous. If a man starts sleeping, he can sleep 22‚Äë 23 hours a day and afterwards he would say, "If the day would have been extended to 26‚Äë27 hours, I would have slept more". Similarly you will find persons taking 60 to 70 Puriis in feasts. Similar is the condition of Bhaya. The guardians should never increase fear in their wards, rather should inculcate in them fearlessness. The family‚Äëmen should control and adjust these four, as much as they can, and truly should observe Brahma‚ÄëSadbha'va. A Sannya'sii will eschew the last one, and after controlling the first three, shall divert them towards Brahma Sadbha'va. Herein there is a difference between the Dharma of a Sannya'sii and a family man. Animals cannot have adjustment nor Brahma Sadbha'va. They are slaves to these basic propensities. But man has his Bha'gavad Dharma, as his especiality, which discriminates him from animals. If a man is devoid of this especial psychology, he is worse than an animal, not man.
 Man has got a good number (200 to 400) of propensities, including the basic and especial and shall be able to increase it to 1000. Those who practise Vishes'a Yoga, know that Dharma is also a Vrtti, whose acoustic root is "Va". Animals also have got special points of psychology, and their propensities also vary. Man understands the special characteristics of the animals and tames them accordingly.
 There is a fundamental rule in reference to these special and basic Vrttis, that they must not be suppressed or repressed. But suppose someone has an excess of some of the Vrttis, and if the same is not controlled, will it not be improper and harmful? But then how is this control possible without suppression or repression? This is also true that suppression means going against the psychic sentiment and psychic urge and may also lead to some psychic disease. Even then you cannot encourage a defective basic or special psychology. Can you allow the patient of dyspepsia to take whatever he wants? What to do then?
 Bha'gavad Dharma is the special characteristic of man. Bha'gavad Dharma means spiritual urge. It has been said:
 ¬ÝKaoma'ra a'caret Pra'jinah dharma'ni bha'gavata'ni iha
 Durlabham' ma'nus'am' janma tada'pi adhruvam arthadam.
 The intelligent start observing Bha'gavad Dharma from an early age, the earlier it is, the better it will be.
 Mind must have a flow like a river. You can't check it. Checking the same shall mean suppression or repression. Of course, you can divert the flow of mind, then and there, if you checked the same from an unwanted direction, otherwise you will go against the fundamental psychology of human being. Brahmacarya is the best psychological approach.
 Here is a human mind and before it stands a bad object. Mind has diverted towards a wrong direction. This bad tendency will influence the will‚Äëpower, the conscious mind and the latter will flow towards the evil with the help of his entire nervous system and he will commit something evil. But when a man wants to become good there is no help from his nervous system, for example if you want to elevate yourself you have to try and practise hard. Where as degeneration needs no such endeavour, as in this case the nervous system helps you and the affected nerves compel the Indriyas to behave accordingly.
 The mind is going towards an object it should not; and also it can have a bad motive or tendency. Thus either the object is bad or the tendency is bad. There can be an association of the two as well i.e. mind has got a bad tendency towards a bad object, it is the worst state of affairs. Under such a circumstance, the Sa'dhana' of Brahmacarya teaches you to ascribe Brahmahood on the object and act. By ascribing Brahmahood, you have diverted the tendency towards Brahma, it is no longer a bad tendency, bad motive has been changed to good. You have only diverted it, and not checked it. If the object is eternal, behave with it properly after ascribing Brahmahood with the help of your Guru‚ÄëMantra. It is called Brahmacarya. In Brahmacarya you have to work on the physical level, after ascribing Brahmahood. It implies physical translation as well.
 What is Pratya'ha'ra? You have ascribed Brahmahood on the object, motive has become good. But all this is going on in the psychic level, and the tendency, has been diverted with the help of Guru‚ÄëMantra. But no physical translation has been done. This is the first half of Pratya'ha'ra, and up to this stage Pratya'ha'ra and Brahmacarya are common. In Brahmacarya you proceed towards the physical translation. But in Pratya'ha'ra you do not do so. The object on which you have ascribed Brahmahood is Apara Brahma like all the expressed universe you visualize; whereas Parama'tma' in Its original state is Avyakta, Aks'ara and Para Brahma. The mental object on which you have ascribed Brahmahood is Apara Brahma and not Para Brahma. To accomplish Pratya'ha'ra, you have to surrender this Apara Brahma (in the form of the mental object) to Para Brahma, through the process of Varn'a'rghya Da'na.
 All the plexii in the human body appear as lotuses, and the glands as the petals. Now suppose your mind gets an obsession to have a fine chocolate colour suit. You have ascribed Brahmahood on the suit, make a mental lotus of chocolate colour and surrender it through Varn'a'rghya‚ÄëDa'na. Then alone Pratya'ha'ra has been accomplished. Constant practice in Pratya'ha'ra will make you such, that later on baser or mean ideation shall not occur to you.
 Since the expressed universe comprises of Shabda, Sparsha, Ru'pa, Rasa and Gandha, you have to prepare the lotus accordingly by mentally imagining that the lotus you are surrendering possesses the same sound, the same touch, the same colour, the same taste and the same smell as your mental object possesses. If your attraction is towards Rasa and Gandha, you have to perform Pratya'ha'ra for a longer duration, if it is Ru'pa, normal duration will do, and if it is for <MIS>Shabda and Sparsha, it will take less time. It is only because of the subtle or crude aspect of Tanma'tras ‚Äë Shabda and Sparsha are sentient, Ru'pa is mutative, and Rasa and Gandha are static. The corresponding Indriyas are also subtler or cruder accordingly. As such, tongue and nose being Tamogun'ii (static), people are more affected by them. The mere smell of wine propels the drunkard towards drinking.
 A family‚Äëman, as I have said earlier, shall have control of all four aspects (A'ha'ra, Nidra', Bhaya and Maethuna); adjust them into one Bha'va and divert it towards Brahma Sadbha'va. The Sannya'sii will eschew the last one and behave with the previous three as said earlier. One should keep a vigilant eye over tongue and nose, and have a strong control over them.
 In Pratya'ha'ra, you have to visualize in the mental lotus all the Tanma'trika qualities of Shabda, Sparsha, Ru'pa, Rasa and Gandha as the object possesses. If the concerning Tanma'tra is of Ru'pa then the mental lotus shall be of the colour of that Ru'pa. If the concerning Tanma'tra is other than the Ru'pa, then the colour of lotus shall be white colour along with the specialities of the concerning Tanma'tra of the Shabda or Sparsha or Rasa or Gandha as the case may be.
 Ut'hite, bosite, kha'ite, suite upa'sana' kara'cha'i
 Bhojane a'ma'ra a'huti prada'na shayan a'ma'ra sa's't'a'unga pran'a'ma 
 Bhraman'a a'ma'ra pradaks'in'a ta'nri prati katha' mantra ta'nr
 Prati aungabhaungi mudra' viracan je bha've bosi sei to a'san
 Je cinta'i kori ta'nri dhya'n kori ei deho ta'nri yantro.
 When I am eating, I am offering oblation to the fire ‚Äë Brahma'rpan'am' Brahmahavir Brahma'gnao Brahman'a'hutam'. When I am walking, I am moving towards Parama'tma'.



CH 24 ‚Äë D H A' R A N' A'

 To make the mind firmly located in an area or region, is Dha'ran'a'. Herein a Static Power works. You check the mind which is ever‚Äëflowing. It is better to make the mind still at different Cakras (plexii) or joints of glands. Why is it better?
1. It is convenient to control the mind here with the help of Iccha' Shakti.
2. Here (at plexii) are also situated many glands and sub‚Äëglands wherein lie seats of Vrttis; each petal of the lotus acts as the set of one Vrtti. As such, concentration on the plexii establishes a control on Vrttis and also on the mind.
3. Concentration (or pause) of mind helps in Dhya'na.
4. It also helps in Cakra Shodhana. Every gland or nerve, artery or vein is purified by doing Iishvara Pran'idha'na with mind seated at the plexus.
5. Each of these Piit'has or plexii are the places where Id'a' and Piungala' change their direction, and when you get your mind seated at these places, the pressure of Id'a' and Piungala' on Sus'umna' gets loosened, and the flow of Sus'umna' becomes easier.
(I) In the brain you have got the controlling centre of subconscious and conscious. When you perform Dha'ran'a' or Dhya'na, you have got the support of the subconscious and Iccha' Shakti whose direct support enables you to perform them. Iccha' Shakti, activates your mental power, then only you are to do Dha'ran'a'. What will be the effect of Dha'ran'a'? When you concentrate your mind in some Cakra, subconscious directly associates itself with those Cakras and affects the conscious mind with the help of Iccha' Shakti, and you are able to perform Dha'ran'a'. Suppose you have concentrated at the controlling point of A'jina' Cakra (T'ham').





Mind will go behind at the centre of subconscious and from there it shall control Lalana', Vishuddha, Ana'hata, Man'ipura, Sva'dhis't'ha'na and Mula'dha'ra Cakras, thus mind associates itself with all the lower Cakras.
 Now suppose you are doing Dha'ran'a' at the controlling point of Mu'la'dha'ra Cakra (Lam'), which is closely connected with Sus'umna' Ka'n'd'a, and thereby having an effective association with A'jina' Cakra and mind.





When your mind is in Mu'la'dha'ra Cakra during Dha'ran'a', on the one side, mind is controlling Mu'la'dha'ra and on the other, Mu'la'dha'ra is controlling the mind. As such, you will find it convenient to bring the mind in the state of pause and concentration. Suppose you are trying to do Dha'ran'a' at any other point on the body, which has no association with the Sus'umna' Ka'n'd'a, it will not be convenient for you to have a mental equipoise as it shall be to have the controlling point of the Cakra, which has a close association not only with the Sus'umna' Ka'n'd'a but also with the nerves.
(II) Dha'ran'a' is performed only up to Vishuddha Cakra, since beyond that lies the pure mental world having no direct relation with the crude physicality.
 You perform Dha'ran'a' at the different Cakras from Mu'la'dha'ra to Vishuddha, which are also the controlling centres of different Vrttis (each having control over a set of Vrttis 4, 6, 10, 12, 16). When your mind concentrates over these Cakras, automatically the control on the corresponding Vrttis is affected.
(III) Dha'ran'a' makes your mind accustomed to sit at certain points and this will be helpful to you when you will be required to make your mind seated at some other points when you perform Dhya'na'. That means you will feel convenient to get your mind seated at T'ham'‚Äëpoint and in Guru Cakra and Sahasra'ra Cakra.
 The latter two are the internal and external sides of the same Cakra (Sahasra'ra). The internal side is connected with worldly expressions whereas the external side has no connection with worldly expressions. The internal side has been called Guru Cakra while the external one Sahasra'ra. The first step of Dhya'na is Dha'ran'a' (Dha'ran'a' at A'jina' and at internal or external Sahasra'ra). Dha'ran'a' performed at lower Cakras helps you in Dhya'na as well.
(IV) Will be dealt with in Cakra Shodhana.






(V) The whole vertebral column, with its external and internal sides is called Sus'umna' Ka'n'd'a. and the passage of Sus'umna' fluid within it is called Sus'umna' Na'd'ii. Another pipe that penetrates within this Sus'umna', is the Citra'n'ii, the inner most pipe is known as Brahma'n'ii. Existence of Sus'umna' is mental and spiritual and of Brahma'n'ii is exclusively spiritual, not even psychic.The lowermost end of Sus'umna' is closed. Situated on the left side of Sus'umna' is Id'a' and on the right is Piungala'. The colour of Sus'umna' is whitish with a bit yellow, of Id'a' whitish (with a bit black) and of Piungala' yellow. Existence of Id'a' and Piungala' is psycho‚Äëspiritual just like Citra'n'ii.

 Id'a' and Piungala' cross each other at Vam' and change directions, similar is the condition at Ram', Yam' and Ham'. After reaching T'ham' all the three change their directions, that is when Sus'umna' goes up to Brahma‚ÄëRandhra or Sahasra'ra. While id'a' and <MS>Piungala' end at T'ham'. T'ham', where the three get themselves separated without crossing one another, is also known as Mukta Triven'ii, Id'a' and Piungala' ending at the root of the two nostrils.

 Lam' is the point where the path is closed, it is known as Yukta Triven'ii. The pressure of Id'a' and Piungala' on Sus'umna' exerts itself at the points where they cross each other. As a rule, every hour, one of the Na'd'iis is stronger. When Id'a' is stronger, it gets swollen and Piungala' & Sus'umna' are pressed. Similarly when Piungala' is stronger, Id'a' and Sus'umna' are suppressed and when the latter is stronger, the other two get suppressed. 
You are doing Dha'ran'a' at Lam', Vam', Ram', Yam' and Ham', your mind reaches these points through Sus'umna', as a






consequence Sus'umna' will get swollen and respiration from both the nostrils shall begin. When Id'a' is strong, you will have respiration from the left nostril and when Piungala' is strong, breath will flow through the right nostril. Thus when you get your mind seated at Lam', Vam', Ram', Yam', and Ham', Sus'umna' gets stronger.



CH 25 ‚Äë TATTVA DHA'RAN'A'
:
 Tattvas are numerous but the fundamenta√¨¬•√Å68c68	6868R¬ø68686868686868686868686868≈æ68
69bjbj√êG√êG69696969696969696969696969696969696969‚Äë$69¬≤-6969¬≤-6969‚Äì6969696969696969696969696969696969696969696969696969696969√ø√ø¬§696969696969696969√ø√ø¬§696969696969696969√ø√ø¬§6969696969696969696969696969696969]6969696969‚ÄÝ 696969696969‚ÄÝ 6969‚ÄÝ 696969696969‚ÄÝ 696969696969‚ÄÝ 696969696969‚ÄÝ 696969696969‚ÄÝ 6969¬µ69696969696969696969696969696969696969696969696969696969696969696969696969D69√¨¬•√Å69c69	6969R¬ø69696969696969696969696969≈æ69
70bjbj√êG√êG70707070707070707070707070707070707070‚Äë$70¬≤-7070¬≤-7070‚Äì7070707070707070707070707070707070707070707070707070707070√ø√ø¬§707070707070707070√ø√ø¬§707070707070707070√ø√ø¬§7070707070707070707070707070707070]7070707070‚ÄÝ 707070707070‚ÄÝ 7070‚ÄÝ 707070707070‚ÄÝ 707070707070‚ÄÝ 707070707070‚ÄÝ 707070707070‚ÄÝ 7070¬µ70707070707070707070707070707070707070707070707070707070707070707070707070D70and you shall also be able to revisualize the figure, then and there. Moreover, if you will keep the controlling point as well in your mind, while doing Dha'ran'a', the figure will not be disturbed easily.







 Suppose you are doing your Dha'ran'a' at the Piit'ha of Mu'la'dha'ra, and also keeping the controlling point Lam' in view, the mental figure will not get disturbed easily and also if disturbed, you shall be able to rebuild it.
Moreover concentration on Lam' will also affect the nerves. In addition to that, Lam' point being the controller of all solid factor of your entire physical body, when your mind is seated in that point, you will have physical solidarity and the body shall also remain in a calm posture.





 Now at Sva'dhis't'ha'na, your mind shall also be seated at Vam' which will give you an effective control on Kuhu‚ÄëNa'd'ii, and you will have control over the liquid material of your entire body. 






When you will have your mind at Ram' ‚Äë the controlling point of Tejas, it will keep energy in your control, and you will not like to stretch your hands and feet.






 The controlling point of this hexagon (Piit'ha) is Yam'. But this hexagon appears as a circle because of its smoky colour. This controls the aerial factor of your body. The symptom of even a little concentration on Yam' Biijam or Ana'hata Cakra affects both the arms to come out as if somebody has pushed the arms from behind.
 At Kan't'ha, there is no figure, it has only its controlling point Ham'.
 You will sit in Viira'sana, while doing Dha'ran'a'. Viira'sana keeps the head cool and also inspires one to perform some courageous action. While doing Dha'ran'a', your eyes will be open and fixed at the tip of nose. Thus your mind is visualizing at two points, with the help of eyes at the tip of nose, and without the help of any Indriya at the Piit'ha. This enables you to get your respiration done either by one of the nostrils or by both. In Dha'ran'a' you will visualize primarily the Piit'ha, (and not the whole plexus) and secondarily the controlling point of the respective Piit'ha. While visualizing the figure, you will recite the Mantra mentally while your physical eyes shall be fixed at the tip of the nose. 
 Lam' Biija'm' Dharan'iim' Dhya'yet
 Caturasra'm' supiita'bha'm'
 Sugandham' Svarn'a varn'atvam
 A'rogyam' Dehala'ghavam.

 Vam' biijam' va'run'am' dhya'yet
 Arddha Candram' shashiprabham'
 Ks'utpipa'sa' sahis'n'utvam'
 ¬ÝJalamadhyes'u majjanam.

 Ram' biijam' shikhinam' dhya'yet
 Trikon'am Arun'aprabham'
 Bahvannapa'na bhoktrttvam
 A'tapa'gni sahis'n'uta'.

 It affects the pancreas and man can take more food and he can also bear heat.
 ¬ÝYam' biijam' pavanam' dhya'yet 
 Varttulam' shya'malaprabham
 A'ka'sha gamana'dyam' ca
 Paks'ivat gamanam' tatha'
 The colour of Ana'hata Cakra is in between green and smoke, like the leaf of cabbage. Mind becomes very light and helps in Antara Pra'n'a'ya'ma of Vishes'a Yoga.
 Ham' Biijam' gaganam' dhya'yet
 Nira'ka'ram' bahuprabham'
 Jina'nam' trika'lavis'ayam
 Aeshvaryaman'ima'dikam.
 This is the Cakra in whose contact conscious mind comes first. If this is in a state of pause, assimilation of knowledge becomes easier, as pause always helps in assimilation. Ether is the subtlest of all the Bhu'tas, its next subtler state is mind. As such, control over the ethereal factor, affects the mind, then and there. One who has controlled this, is called Yudhis't'hira, which derivatively means one who is undisturbed and calm in the clashes of the physical world. 
 The first expression of all the intellectual faculties occurs at this point (Ham') and physical world and physical body assist the same. As such, occult power also expresses itself from this very point. This has to be kept in proper condition. 
 In Tattva Dha'ran'a', you have not to recite your Is't'a Mantra.

CAKRA SHODHANA:
 The difference between Cakra Shodhana and Dha'ran'a' lies in the fact that when you do Dha'ran'a', you primarily visualize Piit'ha and secondarily the controlling point, but in Cakra Shodhana the opposite is the case. You primarily concentrate at the point and secondarily at the Piit'ha. If you have not kept in mind the Piit'ha, it shall be called Bindu Shodhana and not Cakra Shodhana. Hence you will keep the figure in mind, but primarily you have to concentrate over the controlling point of the Piit'ha. 
 You know that every Tanma'trika expression is the expression of Shabda Brahma, but the subtlest of these expressions is Jyotir Brahma and Shabda Brahma. Both of them create a tremendous vibration in every aspect. Here in Cakra Shodhana you have a subtle adjustment between the two. The controlling point which you have taken is Jyotir Bindu (a coloured point), therein you have applied your Is't'a Mantra, thus you can find at every Piit'ha and every controlling point of your Cakras, Shabda Brahma and Jyotir Brahma, by your endeavour and Sa'dhana'. 
The colour of the controlling point is the same as that of the Piit'ha. For example Ram' Biija is a point, whose colour is red. You are visualizing that red point primarily and the triangle secondarily. Your main ideation is in the red point, that is Jyotir Brahma and therein has been added your Is't'a Mantra, that means Shabda Brahma. Both will affect the point Ram'. 
 There are five sub‚Äëglands on each side of it, and are collectively known as pancreas, which have been affected by Shabda and Jyoti. This will affect the hormone secretion which will also affect the lower Cakras, as you know that higher Cakras influence the lower ones, meaning thereby that Sahasra'ra affects all the Cakras, while Mu'la'dha'ra influences only itself. When you will recite your Is't'a Mantra mentally at the controlling point, you will realize A'nandam and spiritual bliss in the corresponding region. You will reach a stage of divine composure, and when you shall reach the Sahasra'ra the divine nectar secreted from that point will make you realize a complete peace pervading your entire physical body.
 In Cakra Cakra'ntara Japa, it has to be done in a rhythm and in a fixed number. The rhythm will constitute a fixed number of your Is't'a Mantra brought under the scope of Sargam.

HA'SA' PARIVARTANA:
 Times ago, Sada'shiva had made a Sha'stra, known as Svara Sha'stra, in which the effect of respiration by either nostril and by both, was dealt with. He had visualized that Piungala' (right nostril) is best for all worldly action, and Ba'ma' or Id'a' (left nostril) is best for all mental actions. Right nostril is better for physical action, crude action and cruel action whereas left one is better for mental, soft work and virtuous action. When both the nostrils are active there can be no success in any worldly or mental affairs. It is just like death. But in such a state, you can do your Sa'dhana' best. 
 If you want to curse anybody, it is best in the Daks'in'a', and when you want to bless, left is best. Somebody wants to run, if he does so when his right is active, he will have a greater speed. Right is best when you are dealing with things which are solid (say, when you are eating cooked rice) and left is best when you are concerned with liquid (say, when you are drinking water). 
As a rule when you are to practise Dhya'na, Dha'ran'a' and Pratya'ha'ra, you will take into consideration the flow of respiration, but when you are just reciting the Mantra, you need not. At times you have to change the nostril. It can be done by Tattva Dha'ran'a'. Another way out is to sleep on the right side keeping the right hand up to elbow under the pressure of the trunk. After sometime left nostril will become active. The third process, is to sit with right leg on side, Talva' (base of the foot) will be resting on the ground. Keep your right armpit on the knees with pressure, keep the body straight. After sometime left nostril will become active. Cakra Shodhana will also change the nostril.


TATTVA UDAYA:

 Ks'iti and Apa are static dominated, Tejas is mutative whereas Va'yu and A'ka'sha are sentient. As a rule, in the life of man, nostrils through which respiration is being done, changes. If during the first hour (Prahara) the left nostril is active, at the next hour the right shall become active, that means the respiration shall not be done by the left nostril but by the right one. But this change is not abrupt, it takes about 8 to 10 minutes for the change to occur, in this duration Sus'umna' remains active, that means respiration goes on with both the nostrils.
 In the hemisphere, there is always the rise and fall of the Sun, Moon and zodiac. Similarly either of the Tattvas dominates in your life. As a rule, Ks'iti merges in Apa, Apa in Tejas, Tejas in Va'yu, Va'yu in A'ka'sha and A'ka'sha in Ks'iti. Thus the process continues on, when one Tattva is merging in the other, when the latter is rising it is said that that particular Tattva is dominating. There is also a phase of conversion. Suppose A'ka'sha is merging into Ks'iti, there shall be a phase of conversion and when the process of conversion has been completed, you shall say that Ks'iti is dominant. In everybody's life, some or the other Tattva rises, after every 5, 10 or 20 minutes.
 When Ks'iti and ¬ÝApa are dominating, it is best time for crude, evil and cruel acts, when Tejas is dominant, it is the middle state, it is good neither for virtuous act nor for evil act. When Va'yu and A'ka'sha are dominating, sentient, and good works can be accomplished. According to Tantra, while doing good work, there should be no consideration of time, ideate upon your Guru Mantra, take the name of Lord and do the job.
 There are two processes to know the dominating Tattva:
1. Sit in some A'sana. Breathe in fully. Close tightly your ears with your thumb, your mouth with your last fingers and similarly your nose and eyes with the help of other fingers. After some time, you will visualize the colour of some Piit'ha, and accordingly shall be the dominance of that Tattva. For example, if you visualize golden colour, it is Ks'iti Tattva which is dominating. Similarly you can visualize the dominance of Apa, Tejas, Va'yu or A'ka'sha Tattvas according to their respective colours. 
 In case Va'yu and A'ka'sha are dominating, it is best for Sa'dhana' and when the two lower‚Äëmost are dominating, it shall cause some inconvenience in Sa'dhana'. The difficulty, herein, is that if you shall visualize the dominance of the lower three Cakras (Ks'iti, Apa and Tejas) you shall have to wait, till Va'yu and A'ka'sha get dominated. As such, it is better not to visualize. In Avidya' Tantra, they visualize the dominance of Tattvas while using their power for causing death, Ucca't'ana or Vashiikaran'a or any other evil performances.
2. Take a keen slate (in which students do rough work) and while doing `Ha' with your mouth, breathe out with your mouth on the slate. A figure will be formed on the slate due to the vapour coming out from your mouth. The shape of the figure shall resemble that of some of the other Piit'ha, and accordingly you can deduce the dominance of that particular Tattva. That means, if the figure is rectangle, it is Ks'iti, if crescent it is Apa and so on.



CH 26 ‚Äë D H Y A' N A

 In Dha'ran'a' a static force prevails i.e. mind during this process, is required to be concentrated at a fixed place. But in Dhya'na, the mind is made to proceed towards the mental object in a never ending manner (continuously). To put it more easily, the mind will continue to flow in an unbroken way till it gets suspended in its object. But there is also a close relation between Dha'ran'a' and Dhya'na. While doing Dhya'na, mind must be brought to a specific point, from where it will meditate. For instance, while you do Dhya'na, you should elevate your mind and fix it up in the Karn'ika' (seed vessel of a lotus) of the Sahasra'ra Kamala (Guru Cakra). 
 The way you take your mind to that aforesaid point, comes within the scope of Dha'ran'a', next only starts the Dhya'na process. The process of Dha'ran'a' invariably precedes that of the Dhya'na. That is why, it is impossible for one to be perfectly established in Dhya'na who has not sufficient knowledge of Dha'ran'a' Prakaran'a or its practice. For this reason, before imparting lessons of Dhya'na to anybody, he must be taught how to practise Dha'ran'a' because Dha'ran'a' is the initial stage of Dhya'na. The very process of taking the mind to a particular Cakra is Dha'ran'a'.
 Before practising Dhya'na, one needs a good deal of mental preparation. Just as a novice, while appearing on the stage for the first time in his life plays the role of a dead soldier for his mental preparation. Later on, when he overcomes the stage‚Äëfright, he plays the role of a hero. Three items help in mental preparation for Dhya'na ‚Äë Shravan'a, Manana and Nidhidhya'sana. Just as one is to establish oneself in Dha'ran'a' step by step, so also in Dhya'na, one has to adopt ways of mental preparation for Dhya'na. What does Shravan'a (hearing) imply? "If at all I am to hear anything, I must hear only Hari‚ÄëKatha' (discourses on the glories of Parama Purus'a) and never the evil discussions." 
 What is Manana? Unit mind always thinks of something or other. Manana means to think or say something mentally. Thought is the mental repetition of the same idea. When that internal thought comes out of the vocal cord, it is called `word or sound'. Mental repetition of the same word is Japa and mental repetition of the same idea is Manana. When the same idea repeatedly occurs in the mind ‚Äë "I will do this, I will do this etc." ‚Äë this is called Manana. In Manana, there prevails in the mind only a single idea whereas in Japa, there remains the same idea along with the same word. 
 To continue to repeat, "Ra'ma, Ra'ma, Ra'ma" is Japa, and to continue to repeat, "Ra'ma, Hari, Iishvara, Na'ra'yan'a" is Manana. "If at all I am to do Manana, I must do only of Parama'tma'." The key point behind Shravan'a and Manana is Nidhidhya'sana (contemplation). To make the mind free from other objectives, from other mental pabulum and to make it ready for spiritual Sa'dhana' is Nidhidhya'sana. To prepare the mind for spiritual ideation after withdrawing the same from various psycho‚Äëphysical occupations is Nidhidhya'sana. Before imparting lessons of Dhya'na to anyone, you must verify that he has been perfectly habituated with the Dha'ran'a' and also he has developed a special aptitude for Shravan'a, Manana and Nidhidhya'sana. 
 Dhya'na implies, to direct all the mental propensities towards the goal in an endless flow. This point towards which the mind is led on, may be of various nature. You may receive or transmit the Tanma'tras. Suppose, there is an image made of wood or silver or gold. It may be 5/10 yards long. If you meditate on this image, it means, you are meditating on material objects with Ru'pa Tanma'tras. As a result of continuous meditation on the matter, the conscious mind, with the help of will‚Äëforce takes the form of crude objects. 
 Thus in this process, the subconscious mind, with the help of will‚Äëforce and conscious mind, takes the form of the object of meditation and ultimately becomes converted into the same. This process of Dhya'na is called Ta'nma'trika Dhya'na and through the practice of this Dhya'na, one attains Ta'nma'trika Sama'dhi. One can concentrate one's mind on something through the Indriyas. For instance, a boy is reading a book. In common parlance it may be said one is reading with attention (Dhya'na) i.e. one is paying attention (Dhya'na) to the lines or scripts of the book. An intelligent boy is said to have attained Dhya'na Siddhi (deep attention leading to success). On the contrary, if a boy sits with a book opened but with mind roaming in the football ground, he cannot learn anything.

BHA'VA'TMAKA DHYA'NA: To contemplate on the unfathomable greatness of Parama Purus'a is also a process of Dhya'na. In it, all your energy will be consumed in the thought of Parama Purus'a In Bha'va'tmaka Dhya'na, the origin of Dhya'na is internal. There is another kind of Dhya'na known as Rasa'nanda Yoga Dhya'na. Here the Sa'dhaka feels that he is surrounded by God on all sides ‚Äë east, west, north and south. He feels, as it were, His touch. The entire body of the Sa'dhaka becomes vibrated. The entire existence of the microcosm becomes vibrated. The entire existence of the microcosm becomes vibrated by the Cosmic Vibrations.
 So far as the proper spirit of Dhya'na is concerned, only Anudhya'na should be accepted as the real Dhya'na. "Anu" means "Pashca't" or `following' i.e. to chase Parama'tma' along with His ideation. This chasing after Him is a never‚Äëending flow. Dha'ran'a' is the stabilization of mind while in Dhya'na mind is made to flow towards Him. A'nanda Ma'rga method of Dhya'nam is Anudhya'na and others processes of Dhya'nam are but different stages of Dhya'na. And the best way of Dhya'na is Dhya'na Prakriya'. 
 Dhya'na, according to scripture is Abhidhya'na which has two parts 1. Pran'idha'na, and 2. Anudhya'na. In Pran'idha'na, the Sa'dhaka directs all his mental propensities towards the Supreme desideratum. In Anudhya'na, the Sa'dhaka first takes the ideation of Parama Purus'a and begins to chase him, makes earnest attempts to merge into Him. This effort will continue till the mind is merged into the Cosmic Desideratum ‚Äë till the mind is suspended into its Dhyeya. The Sahasra'ra Cakra is located above all the Cakras. The pineal secretion invigorates all the lower Cakras. Dhya'na should be done only on Sahasra'ra Cakra. The Dhya'na, which is practised at this Cakra is Anudhya'na. 
 Anudhya'na means `to make the mind run after'. As a result thereof, the subconscious mind will get devoted forcibly. Whether in Dhya'nam or in Iishvara Pran'idha'na or in Japa‚ÄëKriya', two entities, you and your object of ideation are always existent. In all those cases you are to catch hold of your Dhyeya by vigorous mental efforts. When you apply all your mental force to do that, there will be created a psycho‚Äëspiritual vacuum ‚Äë a clear gap. Consequently, the Kula Kun'd'alinii rises up quickly. (Kula Kun'd'alinii is a vibrational expression). To fill up the above‚Äëmentioned gap, she rises upwards. Supposing she rises up to Sva'dhis't'ha'na or Man'ipura, she got a permanently natural passage up to that point. 
 If next time one practises intense meditation, the natural passage will extend up to the higher Cakras. Thus in the process of extension of the natural passage step by step, it will extend up to Sahasra'ra ‚Äë the Kun'd'alinii Shakti will merge into the controlling point of the Sahasra'ra Cakra; the Shakti becomes identified with Shiva. While doing Dhya'na and Iishvara Pran'idha'na, the earnest desire to get at Him, to catch hold of Him with an intense urge must be conspicuously present, otherwise the perfect success in Dhya'na is never possible. First, you should see Him, next you should try to run after Him vigorously; otherwise, you will follow a wrong track and dash against a wall.
 Whether in Dha'ran'a' or in Dhya'na, mind must be concentrated at a fixed place. Inside the Sus'umna' Na'd'ii, different Cakras are located at different junctures. Dha'ran'a' or Dhya'na is done on these Cakras. In each of these Cakras, there is a lotus or Kamala. These Kamalas may face front, or behind, upwards or downwards. When the Kamala faces front, it is called `Jiivana Kamala', the one facing behind in Maran'a Kamala. One, who meditates on Maran'a Kamala loses longevity; he dies soon after. Many Yogiis accept "Iccha' Mrtyu" by meditating on the Maran'a Kamala. Hence, meditation on this Kamala is strictly prohibited for both family men and Sannya'siis. 
 The Kamala facing downwards is Adho Kamala. If one meditates on this Kamala, one's mental propensities flow towards crude objects, one becomes degraded. This is also to be avoided. According to Avidya' Tantra, if one wishes to harm anybody, one should meditate on Adhokamala. It is harmful for a Sa'dhaka. You who are the followers of Vidya' Sa'dhana', must not follow the Avidya' Tantra. But anybody can practise meditation on U'rdhva Kamala and Jiivana kamala. 
 In case of Guru Cakra and Sahasra'ra, one should meditate on U'rdhva Kamala only and in other cases, only the Jiivana Kamala should be used. But the world‚Äërenouncing Sannya'siis, if they so desire, may meditate on U'rdhva Kamala. But, preferably, only the Jiivana Kamala should be used as a rule. The difference in results of Sa'dhana' on U'rdhva Kamala and Jiivana Kamala is that the worldly mindedness of concerning practitioner vanishes from his mind. But if one does on Jiivana Kamala, people may adjust between family life and spiritual life.
 In Guru Cakra & Sahasra'ra Cakra, there is only U'rdhva Kamala. Some persons hold that those two Cakras are separate, while others hold that they belong to the same Cakra. Actually speaking, Guru Cakra is the internal side of the Sahasra'ra Cakra. The Karn'ika' of the Sahasra'ra Cakra contains within it the Guru Cakra. In Sahaja Yoga, no mention has been made of any Kamala. While actually there is a one thousand petalled lotus. Each layer contains 50 petals in 20 layers. While the Guru Cakra is 100 petalled lotus. Guru Cakra is within the Sahasra'ra Cakra. That is why, the Guru Cakra is called the internal side of the Sahasra'ra Cakra.



 CH 27 ‚Äë S A M A' D H I

 When you meditate on some object ‚Äë whether physical or abstract or spiritual ‚Äë and when your mind gains complete identity of that object, at that time, you are said to have attained Sama'dhi on that object. Therefore, Sama'dhi is said to be of three categories ‚Äë 1. Physical Sama'dhi (Jad'a Sama'dhi). Suppose, there is a flower. While thinking of the flower, your mind takes the form of the same, that is called Jad'a Sama'dhi. When the mind is suspended due to the practise of Kumbhaka Pra'n'a'ya'ma, that too is called Jad'a Sama'dhi. The type of Sama'dhi obtained through the forcible suspension of mental propensities is also Jad'a Sama'dhi. 
 Mahars'i Patainjali has defined Yoga as "Yogashcittavrtti nirodhah". Yoga is a process of suspension (nirodha) of all mental propensities (Citta Vrtti). To strangulate the propensities is Yoga. This is a negative process. Where will these suspended propensities go? They all remain within. Sama'dhi is possible when these mental propensities are merged into something else. One attains Jad'a Sama'dhi, if the gates of senses are forcibly closed. It is, to some extent, senselessness. I may only partially approve of the Pa'tainjali definition of Yoga, but not completely. 
 Tantra defines Yoga, "Sam'yogo yogo ityuktah jiiva'tma' Parama'tmanah", that is, Yoga aims at complete unification of Jiiva'tma' with Parama'tma'. Even after suspension of the mental propensities, one may or may not attain Sama'dhi. When mind gains complete identity (Sva'ru'pya) of its object, it is called Sama'dhi. When mind gains identity of physical objects (Jad'a), that will be a case of Jad'a Sama'dhi. What may be the effect of meditation on a physical object ‚Äë an image of a wooden deity? This will lead to one's attaining Jad'a Sama'dhi because the mental object is external physicality.
When mind meditates on abstract ideas (Bha'va'tmaka Vastu) and attains Sama'dhi, that is called Abstract Samadhi. Then the A'tma' is Shtu'la (crude Stage). If it becomes abstract, and when it becomes still more crude, that is called Jad'a (matter). Abstract Samadhi means Bha'‚Äëva'tmaka Sama'dhi. This is of two types ‚Äë 1. Purely mental. Here in this case, one meditates on a mental object. Suppose, you have made a picture of a football in your mind. One portion of your mind is visualizing that picture. Here both the visualizer and the visualized are mental ‚Äë subjective mind and objective mind. 
 In this case, when the subjective mind gains complete identity of the object, it will be a case of pure Ma'nasa Sama'dhi. Again, suppose, there is a football outside your mind, you are thinking of your mind and seeing it through the media of the Ru'pa Tanma'tras. While you attain Sama'dhi seeing it, that will be a case of Jad'a Sama'dhi. This Sama'dhi is also of two categories ‚Äë 1. By thinking of a material object, 2. By closing the gateway of the sense‚Äëorgans. Ma'nasa Sama'dhi or Bha'va Sama'dhi is also of two categories ‚Äë 1. By creating a mental object and 2. By meditating on those sense‚Äëorgans which are receiving incoming Tanma'tras. 
 When the Sama'dhi is on physical objects, it is called Jad'a Sama'dhi, but when it is on the Indriyas, it is not Jad'a Sama'dhi, that is a mental Sama'dhi, because Indriya is nothing but an expression of mind. Suppose, there is a duster, you can think of this object because of its Ru'pa Tanma'tra. As a result of constant seeing of the object, when the seeing‚Äëmind gains complete identity of the object, it is a case of Ja'da Sama'dhi (No.1). When an Indriya is forcibly suppressed, that is also a case of Jad'a Sama'dhi (No.2), Nirodha does not mean suspension, it is suppression. When you create a mental football or a mental duster with the help of one portion of your mind and another portion of your mind sees it. The one who sees, attains a kind of Sama'dhi which is Pure Mental (No. 1). Suppose, there is a football outside. Your eyes are seeing that football. Instead of meditating on that football you are meditating on the seeing Indriya. 
 Here Indriya does not mean the gate‚Äëway of the physical sense‚Äëorgan, it is actually located in the brain‚Äëcells. This eye is an agent of the mind. When you meditate on this Caks'u Indriya, a faculty of mind, one portion of the mind sees and another portion is getting slowly converted into Caks'u Indriya. Then the entire mind becomes suspended and converted into the Caks'u Indriya. It is also a case of Bha'va Sama'dhi (Bha'va Sama'dhi No.2). This is internal, not at all external, but it is not Pure Mental either. Some are inclined to treat it as Jad'a Sama'dhi, not as a Bha'va Sama'dhi. Possibly, they are not wholly incorrect.
 Spiritual Sama'dhi is only of one type. And that is to be attained through Pran'idha'na and Anudhya'na. Mind being suspended in its object (Spiritual), one attains Sama'dhi. Therefore, Sama'dhi is mainly of 5 types ‚Äë 2 types of Jad'a Sama'dhi, 2 types of Mental Sama'dhi and Spiritual Sama'dhi. ¬ÝA'nanda Ma'rga recognizes only one ‚Äë Spiritual Sama'dhi.


CH 30 - GURU TATTVA

Education aims at acquainting the being with his status, his environment and interlinking the both. Since its aim is limited, it is said to be Apara' shiks'a' - crude knowledge. The education by which the being can elevate himself beyond this limitation by utilizing his knowledge and intellect is Para'- Shiks'a' - the knowledge of the Subtle. The man acquires the Apara' Shiks'a' from Sagun'a Brahma in the introversal and extroversal movements of Brahma Cakra ‚Äì the cycle of creation but how will the Para' Shiks'a' be acquired? Apara' knowledge is due to Macrocosmic clash and reaction. The seed of Para' Shiks'a' is also here. This can be had from the energy latent in introversal movement. Hence, Sagun'a Brahma is the only Educator who imparts this education. The other educators in the field of Apara' Shiks'a' are merely His Agents. They obtain from Sagun'a Brahma and transmit a microscopic fraction of Apara' Shiks'a'. The entire credit of all this education goes to Sagun'a Brahma. Sagun'a Brahma is the originator of Apara' Vidya' and Apara' Shiks'a'. He is, therefore, the sole authority in the field of education. For this, He neither was nor is dependent upon any other entity. He is the supreme authority so far as the Apara' aspect of Shiks'a' is concerned. When Praja'pati (Sagun'a Brahma) investigated His Own Cause, that is when He took to introspecting His Own Self, He found Himself to be composed of two fundamental factors - Kriya' Shakti and Jina'tr Shakti. The harmony of these two forces is causal for the expression of temporal, spacial and personal entities. Kriya' Shakti cannot function by itself and without the Kriya' Shakti being active the knowledge of Jina'tr Shakti cannot be established. Jina'tr Shakti is transcendental, omnipresent and all-pervading. His absolute speed has got no difference with the absolute pause but the flow of Kriya' Shakti is in waves, and so the existence of relativity is probable in all stages. Where relativity is probable, Parama'rthika Anupapatti - want of absolute knowledge, is always present. It has, therefore, been visualized that Jina'tr Shakti holds the Kriya' Shakti and the former is the container of the latter. Even if the sense of the self-existence be established in Kriya' Shakti, the entire knowledge of the Jina'tr Shakti or Purus'a shall not be available but the establishment of the sense of self-existence in Jina'tr Shakti or Purus'a Bha'va would yield the complete knowledge of the immanent Kriya' Shakti. Praja'pati, therefore, conceived that if spiritual aspiration has to be done it must be for the Purus'a. The introversal action of Praja'pati is the Sa'dhana' of Purus'a. After attaining success in this attempt Praja'pati became Hiran'yagarbha. After His establishment in the Purus'a Bha'va, Praja'pati or Hiran'yagarbha became not only the Ultimate Educator but also Parama Guru. Purus'ottama has been imparting from the time immemorial, the knowledge of Para' Vidya' in the universe and in different planets and stars through the medium of elevated beings in the introveral movement of Brahma Cakra. Those who have attained the ability of being an educator by His grace, are fortunate and they are most fortunate who by His grace are able to be the Spiritual A'ca'ryas, because they are fulfilling His will and desire. The tradition of preceptor-disciple relationship is continuing in the introversal movement from the ancient past. The disciple follows the preceptor in humble supplication similarly it is the duty of A'ca'ryas to keep in mind that this flow is the creation of a great number of elevated souls. Spiritual aspirants must feel obliged to these past great souls. 

OATH

Sa'dhana' or spiritual practice aims at the elevation of the self. In the sphere of behaviour, the purification of feeling is an essentiality. If there shall be no feeling of blessedness regarding the environments, the unit mind shall be absorbed in the environmental crudeness. The spiritual aspirant must, therefore, never think of harming anybody. But the absence of feeling of harming, is not the ultimate and final fact. His action should be such as may leave no room for the inspiration of any ill-feeling. The best way to get rid of ill-feeling is to engage oneself in public service. The mental feeling by being spiritually imposed exclusively in the mental sphere, goes on gradually strengthening and so the attempt to express the internal psycho-spiritual secret in the external field is nothing but a foolish act. The aspirant must not disclose the secrets of his spiritual practice. 

JAPA
In the Sa'dhana' of Yoga Ma'rga, Japa is not any separate item. Japa is either done in Dha'ran'a' or Dhya'na or only through words - thus Japa is either based on Dha'ran'a' or Dhya'na or Shabda. So far as the last one is concerned, it is known as Na'ma-Mantra or Na'ma-Japa and there is no restriction in it. It is taught to children also. This alone is actually Japa. Cakra-Cakra'ntara Japa or Cakra Shodhana is based on Dha'ran'a', and is a style or form of Dha'ran'a'. Iishvara Pran'idha'na is also a Dhya'na, the way you performShuddhis and move the mind, is nothing but Dhya'na. Japa with Iishvara Pran'idha'na is also Dhya'na. Arddha Iishvara Pran'idha'na is pure Japa. 

UPA'SANA'
Upa'sana' means to sit near e.g. Eka'dashii Upava'sa. Sam'skrta synonym of fasting is Anashana which means not to take food. But Upava'sa means to be nearer. Throughout the month, you are busy in worldly activities and doing Sa'dhana' as well. Why not remain busy for a day or two only in Sa'dhana'! These days can be called Upava'sa, since you had been near God during these days. On these days you have to take only that much food by which your mind is not affected. Otherwise, mind will be diverted towards your stomach because of the fasting. If your mind can remain unaffected, take only lemon water or take something more, but you should always attempt to take as less as possible. If you can live without water, you may do so. You have only to think that your mind does not get diverted towards your stomach. As such, my direction is to take very light food, and one who wishes can live, may live on lemon-water only. Upa'sana' means to make a seat nearby. It is of three kinds - Pu'ja', Arcana' and Pra'rthana'. You want to sit near Him, you are keeping yourself physically before Him or His photo, but you are ideating upon Him internally. You also speak out reverently, whatever you want, you speak within as well. This is called as Pu'ja'. The first portion of your Guru Pu'ja' is Pu'ja', while the second portion i.e. the Varn'a'rghya Da'na is Pratya'ha'ra, it is not Upa'sana'. 

ARCANA: 

The object with whom you want to do Upa'sana' is just before you externally. You are speaking to him externally while looking at the object externally, and you are also using materials like Sandal, flower etc. Herein nothing is mental, everything external. This is Arca' or Arcana'. In Pu'ja' you were doing it mentally. Durga' Pu'ja' and Sarasvatii Pu'ja' are not Pu'ja' but Arcana'. Upa'sana' is a lower category of Sa'dhana', and amongst it, Arcana' is second lower. ¬ÝPu'ja' becomes higher only because it is performed internally, only the object is external to you. But Arca' or Arcana' is purely physical and is not at all advantageous. The third one is Pra'rthana'. Herein you are doing Upa'sana' externally, prayer externally and also demanding or begging something. You are desirous to have something mundane from your object of adoration. This is known as Pra'rthana'. 

BASIC PSYCHOLOGY

The four aspects of basic psychology are - A'ha'ra (food), Nidra'(sleep), Bhaya (fear) and Maethuna (procreation). These are the basic propensities in every living being and are natural, therefore not despisable. The subtler psychology which works behind Maethuna is to have happiness by expressing oneself. To have A'nanadam by expressing oneself in Iishvara Pran'idha'na is also Maethuna, but spiritual Maethuna. Commonly man does not know this inner psychology and get misguided. You will find that the mind of those persons, who are able to find good work at the physical and mental level, get diverted from physical Maethuna. Maethuna is of four kinds - spiritual, psycho-spiritual, psycho-physical and physical. 

To unite one's existence with Parama Purus'a is spiritual Maethuna, "I will mix with Him, I will be one with Him is the basic tendency". It is because of this motivation that the process of Sa'dhana' was invented. Spiritual Maethuna is for both Sannya'siis and house-holders. 
2. Mental towards spiritual - "I will do strenuous Sa'dhana' and merge myself in Parama'tma'" is Psycho-spiritual Maethuna which both Sannya'siis and house-holders are to do. 
3. Mental towards physical - In this case mind shall get diverted towards physical Maethuna. This is allowed for "family men" but banned for Sannya'siis. 
4. Physical Maethuna is only allowed for house-holders, but they also shall have a control and adjustment with (3) & (4). If they will have a control and adjustment with Brahmabha'va, house-holders will not get degenerated by having controlled psycho-physical and physical Maethuna. Sannya'siis will eschew the last two completely. They shall transform this tendency towards Parama'tma' by diverting the same to the first two aspects i.e. spiritual and psycho-spiritual. The Sannya'siis will not even allow their mind to get diverted toward physical Maethuna. Through the process of Pratya'ha'ra, they will transform the same into psycho-spiritual and spiritual Maethuna. This does not mean suppression or repression. Thus spiritual and psycho-spiritual aspects of Maethuna are allowed for householder and Sannya'sii both. But so far as psycho-physical and physical are concerned, Sannya'sii will eschew it and house-holder will control it. 

CIRCUMCISION

In certain cases, it has been found that the circumference of the skin over the last portion of penis is less, and as a result, the skin does not go up. To remove the same, it was the custom in semitic people to have circumcision. In cases the skin does not go up, it accumulates many dirty things within and causes several diseases. If this portion is dirty, it shall cause itching and the mind will get diverted to it often and then thereby increasing sexual feelings and bringing hindrances in Sa'dhana'. In such cases that you find in any A'nanda Ma'rgii family, just get the skin over the last portion of the penis operated upon slightly, so that the circumference of the skin becomes more and there remains no cause for any disease or psychic diversion. It is not circumcision but a process of cleanliness. 

VIDEHII SAM'SKA'RA (UNEMBODIED SAM'SKA'RA)

Spoken by Ba'ba' at Ranchi Jagrti on 16th May 1969 - When the A'tma' and mind are detached from the body, we call it physical death. The moment mind is dissociated from the body, Indriyas also stop functioning and without the help of the active Indriyas, mind cannot express its inherent momentum, it remains only in potential form, in the form of Sam'ska'ras. With the aid of Mutative Prakrti, they begin to move about here and there till they become well-adjusted with a suitable physical body. However the Videhii Ma'nasa (Unembodied mind) remains connected with Unit Consciousness but in absence of its association with Indriyas it cannot give expression to its inherent momenta. It requires the help of a body having connection with Indriyas. The vibrational waves of those Sam'ska'ras can be seen by advanced Sa'dhakas. The nature of Sam'ska'ras depends on the nature of one's actions performed, one who has done only virtuous deeds in life will be reborn an ideal man, learn and practise spiritual Sa'dhana' with exceptional progress, while those who will only eat, drink and be merry, are bound to be reborn as lower creatures. The Videhii Ma'nasa feels, but in absence of proper media of projection, they cannot express their inner feelings. A'tma' at this stage also remains as the witness to that unembodied mind. But it witnesses only this thing that his mind is not doing anything. It is a witnessing entity of the inactive mind. It sees and gains many experiences without any expression. But if Parama Purus'a gives some power of expression, they can express very little of their feeling. 

VIDEHII MANA (UNEMBODIED MIND)

Spoken by Ba'ba' on 17 May 1969 at Ranchi Jagrti: In a living body, A'tma' functions as a witness to whatever the mind does with the help of brain and Indriyas. When the mind thinks in terms of stealing and accordingly hands actually steal something, A'tma' immediately comes to know of it. This inalienable connection between mind and A'tma' is likened to that between a stage and the stage-lamp. Whatever dramatic performance was there on the stage is known to the lamp. Even when there is no performance on the stage, that also, is known to the lamp. But at the time of death, the mind being dissociated from the brain, moves, in association with A'tma', in the form of reactive momenta. It moves on till it gets a suitable structure by the grace of Mutative Prakrti. Maybe, it may have to wait a good many years or even ten lakhs of years to get a proper structure. Mind requires a physical body. It is the mind that controls the nerve-cells and nerve-fibres. But with death, one loses the same control over the nerve-cells and nerve-fibres. When the mind and A'tma' are detached from the body but life is suspended i.e. life can again come back, in that case, a very subtle link is left between the body and A'tma' & Mind, just as there is a subtle link between the flying kite in the sky and the wheel of thread in the boy's hand. Mind in association with A'tma' is just like a kite. But in case of actual death, this link is also cut off. At that time, the A'tma' which remains associated with the roaming Videhii Mana is called Su'tra'tma' and Parama'tma' who witnesses the Su'tra'tma' is known as Sutreshvara. 

SECRET OF BLESSING

(Spoken by Ba'ba' on 30th May, 1969 at Ranchi Ja'grti): The mental and spiritual progress of a Sa'dhaka depends upon the degrees of control, he possesses over the Vrttis. These Vrttis are fifty in number. Each Vrtti is controlled by a particular gland. The glands function mechanically. If the faces of glands are closed, secretion stops forthwith. Similarly, if the glandular secretion is doubled, the expression of the Vrttis also will be more. Thus all the psychic Vrttis such as fear, shyness etc. can be regulated. In this way, all the Vrttis can well be regulated. On the right and left of Manipura Cakra - the Vrttis of shyness and fear are located respectively. The controlling gland of Ka's'a'ya Vrtti (irritation) on the upper left of the Man'ipura Cakra. That is why, a patient of dyspepsia suffers from short temper. Now to bless somebody means to remove the defects in the physical glands that stand in the way of spiritual progress of a particular Sa'dhaka. When a disciple bows down to a Guru, Guru must bless him. By blessing, Guru helps in removing the defects of the glands. This should not be done in all cases. Hence, it is not desirable to accept Pran'a'mas of everybody. 

HORMONE SECRETION 

(Spoken by Ba'ba' on 29th May, 1969 at Ranchi Jagrti) A few glands, when joined together, form a plexus. There are seven such plexii in the human body. Different glands control different mental Vrttis through secretion of hormones. If the hormone-secretion of glands becomes defective, the mental expression is also defective. Now the balanced state of the mind depends upon the proper functioning of these glands, i.e. requisite hormone-secretion. As a rule, the higher Cakra controls the lower Cakra or Cakras. Thus the Sva'dhis't'ha'na Cakra controls the Mu'la'dha'ra, the Man'ipura controls the Sva'dhis't'ha'na and Mu'la'dha'ra, the Ana'hata controls the Man'ipura, Sva'dhis't'ha'na and Mu'la'dha'ra, the Vishuddha controls the four lower Cakras and the A'jina' controls the lower five Cakras and finally the Pineal Gland (Sahasra'ra Cakra) controls all the Cakras. When the Pineal secretion comes to A'jina' Cakra, from there it trickles still further down or the same may be burnt up due to one's impure mental thoughts. If the mind, at that time, remains full of divine thoughts, the secretion goes down and invigorates the lower Cakras which start secreting hormones in greater quantity than before. In addition to general secretion in a month, an extra amount of 1 or 1 1/2 drops of hormone is produced. If the Sa'dhaka's mind remains pure due to constant Cosmic Ideation, the extra amount is absorbed in his body and all the nerve-cells and nerve-fibres assimilate that hormone. He enjoys divine bliss. This is called God-intoxication. 

PRAN'AVA DHVANI

Ba'ba' was sitting as usual very graciously on the cot and started with these words, "This is the Sa'dhana' Year and the next year will be the Seminar Year". Again He said, "Of course, Sa'dhana' Year will be continued for an infinite period". He then ordered to close the door and windows so the external sounds may not disturb in any way. According to His command all the Sa'dhakas sat in Dhya'na'sana. Those who were imparted the lesson of Dhya'na were told to sit in Siddha'sana and those who [knew] were not, were told to sit in Padma'sana. All were then told to fix up their minds at the prescribed "Is't'a Cakra" but not to start Sa'dhana'. After sometime all excepting a few started to hear the sound as produced by the crickets. After sometime He told us to open our eyes and take a look at Him and again concentrate at the "Trikut'i" (for all persons) and to enjoy the Pran'ava Dhavani (which He told was the first of its kind to be experienced by Sa'dhakas). The sound now was more intensified and changed slowly into "Nu'pura-Dhvani". He repeated many times - "Enjoy this sound - this is the Divine Sound - the Pran'ava Dhvani". In the third stage He told all of us to take the mind concentrate at the Vishuddha - again He said, "Open your eyes and look at me for a second or two and then again concentrate". The Sa'dhakas then felt that the sound had become a bit feeble and slightly changed. He said, "It is now more melodious (Madhura) than what you heard at the two other points." At the end of this He said, "All of you have experienced the sound excepting a few only, those who have not heard should do more intensive Sa'dhana' for a few days and by their normal Sa'dhana', they will also hear this sound". He assured, "Those who I give this sound experience once will be able to listen this sound even while walking on the road only by remembering Me for a few seconds. I will complete the course of one and all who will only follow the Supreme Command." He finally explained that this was the "Sound of Silence" - the "Divine Sound" or the "Pran'ava Dhvani". "This sound is produced by the process of thinking of the Creator when He thinks for creation". The entire creation is within His mind and every action produces a particular sound, the average of all the sounds produced within is this sound - the sound caused by creation of a thing, sound due to existence of a thing and sound due to the destruction of a thing; as everything is happening only within Him. Everything is having its own individual vibration and every individual possesses different vibrations for different points and one average vibration at the nucleus of the entire body. He then told a boy (Sa'dhaka) to sit in Dhya'na'sana as per his choice with the spinal cord in proper position. He also told him to keep his navel (Na'bhi) exposed. He then touched with His stick the navel point of the boy. Some movement in the body was marked. His Ana'hata was then touched, the boy started crying aloud. He explained, "Ana'hata is the seat of all sentiments, so by a touch to it, all the sentiment are touched, so this cry occurred in him". His (the boy's) Vishuddha Cakra was touched - the boy was completely silent now (as his Vishuddha Cakra was touched). Finally He touched the Trikut'i of the boy and said, "The average individual vibration of the boy is now merged into the Cosmic Vibration, so he will enjoy the constant flow of Bliss." The boy fell flat on the ground. He commanded, "Enjoy now the Supreme Bliss - Enjoy". He pointed out that one should sit in Sa'dhana' always in proper position. (Ranchi Jagrti, Evening of 14th., Dec. '69) 

JYOTI, VIBHU'TI AND ANTARAYA'MITVA: 

In the evening Darshana at Ranchi Jagrti on 28th. January, 1970, there were 15 persons present. It started as the prelude to joint discussion. When we talk, our vital energy is converted into sound. In Nirvikalpa Sama'dhi, the vital energy is transformed into spiritual force. When the vital energy is transformed into spiritual energy, sound (Na'da) and effulgence (Jyoti) can be created. One can see the effulgence, if one is a bit spiritually developed. Nothing is a miracle in this universe. As to a primitive man, solar and lunar eclipses, tides and lightnings were miracles, but through gradual education when primitive people learnt the secrecy, it was no more a miracle to them. Similarly, when man by dint of his spiritual Sa'dhana' attains progress, there remains no miracles. 

DEMONSTRATION

Ba'ba' asked "A" to do Sa'dhana' - then asked him to keep his mind at Sva'dhis't'ha'na, then in Man'ipura and gradually in Ana'hata, then Ba'ba' asked "Y" to sit in His lap, closing his eyes and then to see the face of "A". "Y" saw small particles of light around the face of "A". "Y" took his seat. Then Ba'ba' touched the Ana'hata of "A" and then asked "Z" to sit on His lap and then asked "Z" to see the face of "A". "Z" saw circle of effulgence around the face of "A" - particularly particles of effulgence in nose-tip, eyebrows and divine light around "A's" body. Now Ba'ba' took "A" in His lap and then asked "Z" who was then just near the feet of Ba'ba' to see "A" on His lap. "Z" saw intense effulgence - degree of effulgence increased when "A" was in His lap. This effulgence is not physical light, it is cold not hot. Then Ba'ba' asked "Y" to stand and touched his Ana'hata by His stick. Now "Y" saw effulgence being emitted from each and every body who was present, in the Darshana. Ba'ba' with a mystic voice told "Today's evening is very pleasurable - the whole atmosphere is surcharged with vibrations." The deeper implication of His utterance could not be followed. In this context Ba'ba' added - "Human body is a machine, in the hands of the Lord, nobody should be neglected. As in old temple, if some dirt or tree grows, it is the duty of man to cleanse those. Similarly human body is like a temple; if it is stained and become dirty, one should cleanse it with devotion." 

On 29/1/1970 at Ranchi Jagrti: Ba'ba' called "A" and asked him to sit in Sa'dhana' and then told him to stand closing eyes and took him in His lap. Then asked "A" to see a boy just seated before Ba'ba'. Divine effulgence was emitting even through garments. The boy removed his clothes. Ba'ba' pressed the Vishuddha Cakra of "A" and asked him to see the body of the boy. "A" saw a luminous body instead of a human body of flesh and blood. Then Ba'ba' asked him to describe the colour of effulgence of different parts - in the chest he saw white, in the right eyebrow yellowish white, in the Trikut'i -smoky white, in the right ribs reddish white, in the left side of the neck up yellowish white, in the right forehead yellowish white, in the right cerebrum- yellowish white, "A" saw all those colours keeping eyes opened. Then Ba'ba' asked "A" to close his eyes and to see the colour of the mind of the boy which he saw was smoky white which means he wants to be good - the snowy white effulgence was flickering which was interpreted that the boy is not yet mentally settled. The boy confessed that he wanted to become W.T. but he could not settle his mind, since a long time. His mean or average Jyoti in Trikut'i was snowy white. Snowy white means desire to be good and milky white means who is established in good. Then another young Sa'dhaka of Midnapore stood in front of Ba'ba' and "A" saw snowy white mean Jyoti, the mean effulgence of "Y" of Ranchi was yellowish white - white ring around yellow. "A" saw the colour of a sweater (warm garment) as yellowish white although the original colour of the garment was light dark colour. "Everything of this universe is an open-book, nothing can be kept secret", Ba'ba' said. 

DEMONSTRATION ON VIBHU'TI: 

Man can attain by dint of his Sa'dhana' at least seven Vibhu'ti (An'ima', Laghima, Mahima', Iishitva, Vashitva, Pra'pti & Praka'mya), but not the 8th one i.e. Antaraya'mitva which can only be given by Parama'tma'. But Sa'dhaka should always say, "I do not want Vibhu'ti. I want Parama Purus'a". If you get Siddhi, you cannot get Him. "A" was the medium of demonstration. A sa'dhaka from Himachal Pradesh stood up and "A" entered into his navel and went to his Trikut'i. As in Trikut'i, there are Apara' and Para' Vrttis, the rest of the 48 Vrttis can be seen through Apara' Vrtti. "A" saw black colour in Apara' Vrtti. "A" saw black colour in Apara' Vrtti. His character was degraded. This was detected by finding black spot in Apara', since Apara' controls the lower 48 Vrttis. Secondly another Sa'dhaka stood up. "A" entered into his belly and detected a disorder in the intestine, lifelong. This was the beginning of T.B. attack. Ba'ba' warned the boy. Then "A" came to the mind and saw black, blue, red, green and smoky colours. The boy became frightened to hear about a T.B. attack, that is why there was blue colour, the boy had ego of his intellect that is why his mental colour is green and smoky colour represents reckless character. Then Ba'ba' explained that only one who has "Bhaga" can see Sam'ska'ra. Then Ba'ba' asked "A" to see the Sam'ska'ra of the boy before 18 days. His mental set-up was that of a goat. The boy confessed that before 18 days, his mental thinking was very low. Then Ba'ba' converted the physical body of the boy to that of a goat, "A" saw it a goat. Later on everything was made normal by Him. 

EGO - THE GREATEST ENEMY 

(9/2/1970 at Ranchi Jagrti): Darpa (ego) whether for good work or bad, it is harmful. A story goes like this, "Na'ra'yan'a as Baman Avata'ra asked for three steps of Bhu'mi from the King Bali as the king had the Darpa (ego) of his Da'na (charity). Bali at once agreed to give the desired land, since he thought the three steps of a dwarf man would be very small. Now the Baman Avata'ra put down his first step and the king started seeing his feet everywhere in the mundane world, now the Avata'ra put his second step in the A'ka'sha and the king started seeing his feet everywhere in the A'ka'sha. Now the Avata'ra asked the king, 'Where should I put my third step? The king replied - on my head, and when the Avata'ra put his third step on the head of the king, he immediately entered into the Pa'ta'la. Only one Aham'ka'ra of man can remain that he is the son of the Parama Purus'a. He can snatch away your object of Garva (ego) at any moment. Man is a Mana-Pradha'na creature and Pashu is Shariira- Pradha'na, therefore man has to be careful in his mental thinking. Mind is to be kept always pure. Gaunga' water and cow-dung is not required for this purpose. 

DEMONSTRATION: 

Ba'ba' snatched the thinking capacity of a Sa'dhaka and the boy actually failed to think. Ba'ba' snatched the Va'k Shakti of "B" and he failed to speak in human voice, he began to utter "Ba'ba'" instead of speaking. Ba'ba' added, "Dharma is beyond the scope of time, space and person. One can perform Sa'dhana' without any Upaca'ra.

EFFECT OF MANTRA:

Ba'ba' called "X" and said, "Close your eyes. Keep the spinal cord in proper position and do your Sa'dhana'. Don't you feel a soothing vibration in your spinal cord?" Then Ba'ba' told another boy to touch "X" on his chest. He touched and "X" did not feel pleasure. Ba'ba' asked the boy, "Is it that you did not utter Guru Mantra while touching him?" He said, "No Ba'ba'." Then "3" touched the chest of "X" and he felt pleasure to some extent. Then "C" touched him and then "X" felt more pleasure. Ba'ba' went on explaining. "You see that before starting any action, whether physical, psychic or spiritual, you must repeat your Guru Mantra. Mind will be pure and the work will be a success. Sometimes the superiors and the seniors are to bestow blessings upon the juniors. But before blessing anybody, Guru Mantra should be properly uttered. Then only the blessing will be fruitful. By dint of Sa'dhana', with the help of Is't'a Mantra and Guru-Mantra, an ordinary mortal will become extraordinary. Now the secret lies not with the word but with the idea.  (13/1/70 at Ranchi Jagrti) 

    ‚Ä¢ THE END ‚Äì 



Misc‚Ä¶‚Ä¶..
13 Sam'ska'ras. Then after getting sufficient happiness you feel that more of that is not needed: it is called Tos'a. So hapiness and contentment are not one and the same thing. The wicked and the sinners used to catch-hold of the ----------

15 Sama'ja Sha'stra will vary. If it is an A'ptava'kya or [according to the order] on the authority
of the A'ptava'kya, the Sama'ja Sha'stra will be accepted as Pra'ptava'kya. If it is accepted as 
-----------
23 amed after the same. The Pra'n'a Shakti with whose help, people expand or contract their limbs, is known as Ku'rm [a'sana] > -va'yu. This is also known as Kurma'sana.

18. SAHAJA UTKAT'A'SANA: It helps in having a balance of the body. 19. SHALABHA'SANA: It streng ----------
31 established. Jina'tr Shakti is transcendental, omnipresent and [ervading.] > all-pervading.
His absolute speed has got no difference with the absolute pause but the flow of Kriya' 
-----------
31 Dhya'na'sana. Those who were imparted the lesson of Dhya'na were told to sit in Siddha'sana and those who [knew] > were not, were told to sit in Padma'sana. All were then told to fix up their minds at the prescribed "Is't'a Cakra" but Class on Senior Acarya Diary by Ac Ragunathji ANANDA NAGAR,3,4,5 JAN 1992

YAMA & NIYAMA
In the beginning there was only external worshiping.Later on internal Sadhana.Need control over expresions and sentiments. YANTRA is a machine ,the control of which produces some output.
The Pratik is a Yantra.The upward triangle control phisical expresion.The downward the mind(prajina).
When mind gets inspiration from the soul:Shrama.
If not,only physical inspiration=Parishrama.
When balance betwenn the two,real progress.
KAOSHIKI=Matrix,causal
BHAVANI=Diferent physical objects,external expresions
BHAERAVI=Link,control both
That is why the Yantra on which the kapalik sits is Bhaebavi Yantra.When we sit on this Yantra,Kaoshiki and Bhavani are controled.Those who sit on that are known as "bhaeravas".
Bhaeravi shakti is generated when siting on kapalik.
Tantrik pits can be: Pit,Upapi.and Mahapit.

The five characteristics of Tantra:
MANTRA,YANTRA,KUKAKUNDALINI,DIKSA,SADGURU
Human body is a Yantra.Each cakra also.
YAMA is inteno-external.First we think
Two entities are needed
Yama control the external expressions
NIYAMA is externo-internal.With Niyama the sentiments or vrtis are purified.
Yama is a yantra with five upa-yantras:
1.AHIMSA=Not to infilct pain to others by thought,word or action.
Dharma:which sustains one's existence
Dharmadeshana:which clearly indicates about Dharma.
For which not need to consult the scriptures all the time

Violence(use of Chanda Shakti,vital energy) and Himsa, are not the same.

Human beings have to live on the less evolve beings.
There are three categories of beings:
YATASATRU.Born enemies(tiger,snake)
YATAMITRAM.Born friends(cow)
NIRPEKS.Neutral(monkeys)
A person may kill a yatasatru,but only if it attacks you.
Human beings also can be yatasatru or atatayi:who steal your land,atacks a woman.

Ahimsa is not nonviolence.None can live,or exist witouh the application of chanda shakti.

SATYA.Utilization of one's Want for the Hitam of others.
Want=Indriya(sensory and motor organs) and mind
Kalyam or Kshema:Spiritual welfare.
Shubam:Mental and Spiritual welfare.
Hitam:Physical,mental and spiritual welfare.
In satya, the mind and the indriyas shall express for hitam.
This is a very important upayantra for all others.
It is essential,because we need a balance mind to work.
Asha or hope is a very important vrti located in anahata cakra which guides each action,and for the materializaion of Asha,Satya is a must.
To express a particular event as it ocurrs,is Rta.

Conscious mind is guided by samskaras,but the subconscious can be iluminated,and it has a link with the unconscious.Then the clouds can be vanished and see the light of the causal mind.
Then we become allknowers.
Because of satys,there is RICHUTA(Straightforwardness)

Satya produces a glow or effulgence in the ectoplasm called 'OJAS'.It brigths the conscious and subconscious mind.
Ojas can affect others.Inspire them to act.

There is fight in all realms.The spiritual fight is sentient.



ASTEYA=Not to steal anothers' property.
Can be in individual or in social life.In individual life if one doesn't follow asteya,the mind gets crudified.
Asteya is not possible without Satya.The main objective must be the benefit of others.
Satya is essential for Iccha Shakti or will power.
Asteya can be physical or mental,direct or indirect.
Indirect is when I am not giving what is due to someone.




The controlling point of iccha shakti, lies in the subconscious.
With Rjuta it will be stronger.

BRAHMACARYA=To dwell in Brahma.Apply Guru Mantra.
When lymph comes in contact with teste glands,„ÄÄsemen is formed. Once semen is produced it must go out.„ÄÄWe should not feel guilty about it.„ÄÄBut we can try to make that semen is not produced.
If the glands are not activated,„ÄÄthe hormones are not created.

Above Manipura hormone secretion is consumed by the body. Below, it has to go out.

Every activation of all glands comes from Ajina Cakra, subconscious mind.
Maetuna means to offer something of oneself and get pleasure out of it. It can be Physical, Psycho-physical, psycho-spiritual and spiritual.
The sanyasi has no right to enjoy sex neither physically nor psycho-physical.

When some object, not bad come into sadhana at improper time, Gurumantra will help.

When a wrong objects comes, must be diverted into psycho-spiritual:

1.Visulalize the color and smell of the object
2.Make a lotus flower of that color and smell
3.Surrender it into Baba's feet and forget about it
 