

CHAPTER 7 ‑ N I Y A M A S A' D H A N A'

Niyama means regulation. Men will proceed forward with especial rules and regulations. None can go about or work according to their whims. They have to work according to a particular method and particular directives and in following these one has to impose a control on himself. This self‑regulation is required. Niyama would thus mean self‑regulation or to regulate oneself. It is unlike Yama where the origin was internal and expression was external. Yama could not be practised without a second entity. In Niyama no second entity is necessary. It is internal, its field is inside you. Niyama Sa'dhana' is independent of a second entity. 

The first requirement of Yoga is proper regulation, i.e. to regulate one's self. To emphasize the same, it has been said "Athayoga'nushasanam". Without self‑regulations you will not be able to associate yourself with something at your will. The machine has to be properly prepared. Both the Shariira Yantra (physical body) and the Ma'nasa Yantra (psychic body) are essential for spiritual progress. Not only for spiritual progress, but also for physical and psychic progress. Niyama Sa'dhana' is equally essential because one should regulate oneself before every action. Yama is also like a machine while Niyama is different. Rather, it may be likened to an autonomous machine which works and regulates inside without giving any out‑turn externally. 
 
Shaoca

Shaoca (cleanliness) is the first item of Niyama. It is of two kinds ‑ Ba'hyika (external) and A'ntarika (internal). External cleanliness is again sub‑divided into two: 1) External physical and 2) External psychic. Similarly internal cleanliness is also sub‑divided into : 1) Internal physical and 2) Internal psychic. It is said,

Shaocantu dvividham' proktam
Ba'hya'bhyantaram' tatha'
Mrjjala'bhya'm' smrtam ba'hyam
Manah shuddhis tatha'ntaram.

This shloka does not explain the thing very clearly.

External Physical ‑ Here "Shaoca" means cleanliness. The physical body should be kept clean. It is a fact that due to dirty surroundings and physical impurities, the mind is affected and even physical disease may occur. Self‑reliance is affected, and one degrades himself. Hence it is essential for every Sa'dhaka to maintain this external physical cleanliness.
The rules of bath (Sna'na Vidhi) have been laid down in Carya'carya to that end. Whatever we see in this world is divided into three categories ‑ (i) Sa'ttvika (sentient), (ii) Ra'jasika (mutative) and (iii) Ta'masika (static). The controlling points of the five fundamental factors are located within the trunk portion of the human body. There are five Cakras‑‑Mu'la'dha'ra, Sva'dhis't'hana, Manipura, Ana'hata and Vishuddha‑‑that are all controlling points of respective factors. The Mu'la'dha'ra Cakra controls all solid elements of the body, the Sva'dhis't'ha'na controls the liquid elements, the Man'ipura all the fiery elements, the Ana'hata all the gaseous elements and the Vishuddha controls all the ethereal elements.

The last vertebra or the tail bone of the vertebral column is called "Kula"; a little inside this point, the Mu'la'dha'ra Cakra is located ‑ the controlling point of the physical elements. This Cakra faces the front side and is square in shape. The middle point of this square is a bit away from the bone. But the bone goes out through the middle point of the triangle with the vertebral point (A in the figure) touching the middle point of the square. The square is the Karn'ika' (seed vessel) of the Mu'la'dha'ra Cakra. 
The Karn'ika' of a flower indicates the portion where resides the pollen in the centre of the petals. The Mu'la'dha'ra Cakra is like a complete flower with four petals. The bone that comes out downwards through the middle point of the triangle inside the square is known as "Kula"; that is not the whole bone but only the outgoing portion. Here lies the sleeping divinity, the Kula Kun'd'alinii coiling around the bone. The Mu'la'dha'ra Cakra bears the pressure of the entire vertebral column. A'dha'ra means shelter and mu'la means root. That entity which lies at the root and gives shelter to the entire structure is the Mu'la'dha'ra. 

Above the Mu'la'dha'ra is the Sva'dhis't'ha'na. At the root of the penis, there is a circumference which is the circumference of a circle at the root of the penis. If you draw a straight line through the middle point of the genital organ, that will reach the central point of the aforesaid circumference. This middle point of the circumference is the controlling point of Sva'dhis't'ha'na Cakra. Now if a crescent is formed centering the circumference with the lower portion of the circumference as the base, that will be Sva'dhis't'ha'na Piit'ha. 


The middle point of the Sva'dhis't'ha'na Cakra will not be the controlling point of the Sva'dhis't'ha'na Piit'ha. The latter is the middle point of the circumference of the root of the penis and is situated inside the crescent, which is also the controlling point (Vam') of the entire Sva'dhis't'ha'na Cakra. The bigger circle with the crescent as an arc forms the Karn'ika' of the Sva'dhis't'ha'na Cakra. In this case, the controlling point of the Cakra is not the middle point of the Karn'ika', but the middle point of the root of penis.

Next comes the Man'ipura Cakra at the navel. Inside the Karn'ika' of the Man'ipura, there is an equilateral triangle. And the middle point (Ram') of this triangle is the controlling point of the entire Man'ipura Cakra.

The fourth Cakra is the Ana'hata. The middle point of the straight line joining the two nipples is the controlling point of the Ana'hata Cakra. The Piit'ha of the Ana'hata Cakra is hexagonal in shape. The middle point of the hexagonal Ana'hata Piit'ha within its Karn'ika' is the controlling point of the Cakra. The petals are attached to the Karn'ika'. The mind should be concentrated on the Piit'ha, not on the Karn'ika' in Sahaja and Sa'dha'ran'a Yoga. 

(But in Vishes'a Yoga there is a method of concentration on the Cakra with the petals). The figure of the Piit'ha is very important because the clear idea of the figure will help in good mental concentration on the Central point of the Piit'ha. The Piit'ha, not the Cakra, in Latin, is called the plexus.

The protruding point in the throat is called Kan't'ha, in Sam'skrta and the entire area is called Griiva' or Cala'. Sound comes out of this Kant'ha. It is controlled by the Ku'rma Na'dii. The Ku'rma Na'd'ii being controlled, the Kant'ha is also controlled. The noted singers possess control even without their knowledge. The Sa'dhaka achieves control consciously. One will be able to produce sounds through the vocal cords if one has control over the Ku'rma Na'd'ii. The Ku'rma Na'd'ii has two portions: one portion controls the sound and another portion controls all the nerves below the vocal cords. That portion of the vocal cords from which sounds come out is called Vaekharii. The Vaekharii is controlled and other lower nerves are also regulated by the Ku'rma Na'd'ii. The spiritual Sa'dhaka can develop this power of control over the Ku'rma Na'dii and control the voice. Oxen and lizards, among the animals and reptiles, have a natural control over the Ku'rma Na'd'ii. Lizards can sit on a wall even for as long as ten minutes without any movement, just like a statue. Other animals do not have such control.

The Mu'la'dha'ra Cakra controls all the Ks'iti Bhu'tas including bones etc., through the controlling point of the Cakra. All the liquid elements of the body such as the juice, blood, urine, semen and lymph etc. are controlled by the controlling point of Sva'dhis't'ha'na Cakra. (Here middle point of the circle /Karn'ika'/ is not the controlling point. The middle point of the crescent moon at the root of the penis is the controlling point.) All the fiery elements of the body are controlled by the middle point of the equilateral triangle. All the aerial portions of the body ‑ the ten Va'yus such as Na'ga, Ku'rma, Krkara, Devadatta, Dhanainjaya, Pra'n'a, Apa'na, Sama'na, Uda'na and Vya'na ‑ all these are controlled by the controlling point of Ana'hata Cakra. Similarly all the ethereal factors in the body are controlled by the controlling point of Vishuddha Cakra, whose figure it is very difficult to imagine, hence it is without any shape.
 
External physical cleanliness (Ba'hyika Sha'riirika Shaoca): There are five fundamental factors of which the solid is the crudest followed by the Apatattva (liquid). Every object has basically sentient, mutative and static principles. The Ks'iti Piit'ha which is square and Apapapiit'ha which resembles a crescent moon both are static in nature. With the over‑activeness of these two Cakras, mind becomes crude. The passing of urine and stool is done due to over activation of these glands. But the Tejapiit'ha which is located in the navel is Ra'jasika in nature, whereas the Va'yupiit'ha and the A'ka'shapiit'ha are sentient in nature. The navel is Ra'jasika because it maintains a balance between the two Ta'masika and two Sa'ttvika piit'has. If by some means or other, the lower two Cakras are excited, then the navel also becomes imbalanced. Navel controls energy or Pra'n'a Shakti. The energy or Pra'n'a Shakti will go down towards lower Piit'has ‑ mind will be instrumental for crude thoughts and actions. And if the energy goes upwards towards higher Cakras, all the upper nerve‑cells, nerve‑fibres become energetic.


Ultimately the mind goes up, still higher up, up to Trikut'i (pituitary) and Sahasra'ra (pineal) (which is Gun'a'tiita). These two Cakras are beyond Sattva, Rajah and Tamah. When Sattva is affected, these two also are affected. So far the physical cleanliness (external physical) is concerned, man should keep the lower two Cakras under control. They should be free from excitement. That is why it has been mentioned in the rules of bath that one should pour water in front, on Mu'la'dha'ra and Sva'dhis't'ha'na, and next from behind. Water should be poured from both sides. First make those two cool and then have bath. Our Carya'carya clearly states rules in this regard. If these two are all right, then other things also are all right. Even the common village folk know that before bath, one should give water first in the navel. They are unconsciously conscious about this fact. Bath, then is highly important thing. (There shall be more clear instructions in the Dha'ran'a' chapter). This is highly necessary and useful for the Yogiis.

The controlling station of Sva'dhis't'ha'na Cakra is located in the Piit'ha, not at the central point in the Karn'ika'. This is a singular case. In all other cases, the central point of the Karn'ika' is invariably the controlling point of the Cakra. The central point of the Piit'ha lies outside the Piit'ha because it is same as the central point of the Cakra. If the crescent moon is given the shape of a full moon, then it becomes easier to locate the central point. In our "Sna'na Vidhi", it has been clearly mentioned that we must wet the navel and Sva'dhis't'ha'na first and then we should give water again from behind. So the external physical Shaoca is to keep the body clean and strictly observe Sna'na Vidhi.


INTERNAL PHYSICAL (A'NTARIKA SHA'RIIRIKA) SHAOCA:

The physical body, which is composed of five fundamental factors, is conditioned by the nature of food one eats. There are Sa'ttvika, Ra'jasika and Ta'masika food. (Carya'carya maintains a list of such graded food‑items). 

Man wants to find out persons of his choice wherever he will be. A person addicted to alcohol tries to find out the wine shops in the town or city; according to his necessity, a cinema fan will collect information about cinema houses, a sportsman will gather news about stadium etc. It is ingrained in human nature to find out the like‑minded persons and environments according to his taste and aptitude. The virtuous and pious people look for good persons; the Ta'ntrikas try to collect information about burial grounds. 


If a person takes food of Ta'masika nature, then automatically his natural tendency will be towards crude thoughts because the stimulated two Cakras (Mu'la'dha'ra and the Sva'dhis't'ha'na) are static in nature. If one eats too much of Ta'masika food, these two lowest Cakras become strengthened while the eating of Ra'jasika food strengthens the Man'ipura Cakra which controls the physical energy. Ra'jasika food supplies more energy to man for more and more action in the physical level. The Sentient food strengthens the Ana'hata and Vishuddha Cakra ‑ which helps very much in spiritual Sa'dhana'. Sa'ttvika food is essential for spiritual progress. In India, there is long tradition that sentient food is compulsory for four categories of people ‑ Yatii (Sannya'sii), Bratii, Vidhava'(widow) and Brahmaca'rii. There is no scope of selection of food for them. They must not eat anything according to their taste. Whether they take it or not, they must eat Sa'ttvika food. Yatii ‑ one who follows Yama and tries to control oneself in every sphere; Yama means to control. Yatii means Sa'dhu or Sannya'sii.

Bratii ‑ One who has a definite mission of doing some concrete and great service to humanity. If such a Bratii takes bad food, automatically his mission will not be fulfiled. Vidhava' ‑ One who has lost her husband. For such a widow, it is essential to be away from Ta'masika Jiivana (bad food and immoral life), otherwise, she will be treated as one downfallen. But for those who want to marry again this is not needed. But if one wants to remain as a widow, one must compulsorily eat Sa'ttvika food. Our society has imposed these severe rules for them. Brahmaca'rii ‑ (It is already explained in Yama Chapter). For the above mentioned four categories of people, there should be no scope of selection of food. Food is Sa'ttvika (sentient), Ra'jasika (mutative) and Ta'masika (static) in nature, and according to the nature of food Cakras are:

Sa'ttvika food is that food which conduces to the well‑being of both body and mind and is not at all harmful in any sphere.

Ra'jasika means that food which is good for health but which may or may not be good for mind but certainly not harmful.

Ta'masika ‑ That which is positively harmful for mind but may be or may not be good for health. What is good for health but harmful for mind is also Ta'masika. Again what is equally harmful for body and mind is Ta'masika. An example is onion. It has good effect on health but is very bad for mind. That is why it is Ta'masika. Beef carries some animal protein; but it is very bad for mind. Lentil pulses are good for health if it is taken during daytime but at night it is Ta'masika. The qualities of many objects vary from day to night.

Moon has its own influence on human body; whereas the influence of sun is something different. A type of banana (Champa Kala') is good for both mind and health, if eaten during the day. But if eaten at night, the same banana causes cold and cough. There is a variety of cucumber which has good effect if it is eaten before noon. The same thing changes its qualities in the afternoon and at night. That is why, even the illiterate village people know that the uses of those Ta'masika food‑items are to be avoided during those hours. For Yatii, Bratii, Vidhava' and Brahmaca'rii it is compulsory that they must take the Sa'ttvika food, not Ra'jasika and Ta'masika food in any case. The common people may take Ra'jasika and Ta'masika food if they so like. We can not order anybody. 

Those who practise Sva'sthay'sana should eat Sa'ttvika or Ra'jasika food but not Ta'masika food because that will harm the body. For those who practise Dhya'na'sana, only the Sattvika food is permitted. Ra'jasika food may be eaten during the daytime only. Ta'masika food is strictly prohibited. 

For external physical cleanliness, one should pour water in front and behind, and follow the relevant rules in this regard. In internal physical cleanliness, one must follow rules and restrictions regarding food, because, after all, man is not an animal like camels or goats who feed themselves on anything and everything available at hand. Man must apply his knowledge of discrimination in every action. Regarding food‑items, man must discriminate between good and bad. It is natural that one must satisfy oneself about the nature of an injection that the physician is going to put inside the body. When you are going to take something foreign into your body, you must be sure about its probable after‑effects. The same discrimination applies for food also.

There is one thing more to be said about external cleanliness ‑ that is Su'rya Pran'a'ma. It is done in two ways. One may have a sunbath in an uncovered body during Bra'hma muhu'rta. (This means the period consisting of 45 minutes before sunrise till 45 minutes after sunrise.) If one's body remains uncovered at that time, it will absorb a lot of infra‑red rays from the rising sun. These rays are very much beneficial for skin, nerves, flesh etc. It is a fine natural medicine for skin disease, heart, digestion etc. This Pran'a'ma should be practised opposite the sun. Ordinarily while bowing down to a man, one stands facing the man; but in case of Su'rya‑Pran'a'ma, the process is reverse. Here is the fixed rule: fire should warm the front portion of body, sunshine, the back portion of the body.

Our body can get the natural infra‑red rays during Bra'hma‑ muhu'rta. The colour of the sun at this time is Arun'a (crimson). In mythology, Arun'a is depicted as the charioteer of the Sun's chariot, drawn by seven horses. These seven horses are nothing but seven colours ("VIBGYOR"): violet, indigo, blue, green, yellow, orange, red. Infra‑red rays are available from them in the dawn. From the white light also these infra‑red rays can be absorbed. When immediately after bath one stands in the sunlight with small particles of water all over his body, the infra‑red rays of the sunlight may pierce into the body through those water particles. That is why the Sna'navidhi has been laid down in such a way that before drying off the water from the body, one should stand facing the sun so that the infra‑red rays of sunlight, before being dissociated, may enter straight into the body. Through Sn'ana‑mudra', we want to invigorate the upper portion of our body. Thereby, the Sa'ttvika portion of our body, the glands, and sub‑glands, undergo movement and become fit for assimilation of rays. The hands and the chest, due to their greater movement, absorb more rays.

While doing the Mudra' along with uttering the Mantra, the entire front portion of the body becomes exercised. As a result there will be a glaze on the body immediately.


BA'HYIKA MA'NASIKA (EXTERNAL PSYCHIC):

Man has Sam'ska'ras of which imposed Sam'ska'ras form one category. The environment, in which man is born and brought up has its impact on human mind. When the impact on one's mind lasts long, it becomes imposed Sam'ska'ra. For example, if a child is born in a village, where most of the people are bad and quarrelsome, then the same child also, at the age of 10 or 12, will grow up to be a quarrelsome boy. As the external environment exerts its unhealthy influence on one's mind and creates imposed Sam'ska'ras, so it is called External Psychic.

When one sees some obscene pictures outside, sympathetic vibrations will be created in the optical nerves and from there the vibration will reach the actual site of the eye‑organ in the brain. At that time one feels that one is seeing something. If one continuously sees obscene pictures, then that will form a habit ‑ the same type of vibration will be permanently occurring. A cursory glance at things may not affect mind so much but continuously looking at obscene pictures creates lasting and strong waves of vibrations. That is why one should turn away his eyes from those harmful pictures. Once the habit of looking at obscene pictures is formed, the eyes will turn towards that direction neglecting the mind's dictation.

On the contrary, if one does not look to that direction, then the sympathetic vibrations from optical nerves and optical fluids will stop coming in. The nerve‑cells will neither be affected nor be habituated to adopt the vibrative forms. If all of a sudden, the nerves become vehemently vibrated, that will affect the will‑force, which in its turn, will direct the conscious mind. If eyes are opened, he will again want to see the same picture. That is, the unhealthy desire to see obscene pictures is very strong in man. Because in that case the nerve‑cells become strongly vibrated. When you know that the moment you shall look towards a particular direction, you will see some obscene picture, you must not look in that direction. Your nerve‑cells will not be vibrated, consequently your will‑force will not be affected. Even though there is a desire to see, your eyes will not look to that side. Even if you look for a short while, there may be a little vibration in the nerve‑cells and the least glance may at once affect the will‑power. Mind will want more and more to see that picture. This is why human sight is drawn to the criminal acts.

Cittanadii ubhayatah prava'hinii ‑ It flows from hilltop to sea and from sea to hilltop, whereas the actual river flows downwards only. This is the specific propensity of Citta‑Nadii. When the nerve‑cells are vibrated, the entire nerve‑fibres are ready to carry out its dictates. That is why, mind being excited, all the sense‑organs and the body become excited. Nerve‑cells have will‑force which affects the conscious mind.

The conscious mind utilizes, as its agents, the nerve‑fibres which are scattered all over the body. Very rapidly, it will affect the limbs of the body. The mental tendency is either psycho‑physical, that is, towards the crude, or it is psycho‑spiritual. For psycho‑spiritual sphere, the nerve‑cells do not come to one's help, the nerve‑cells connect the body with the mind. If there is a strong idea in the nerve‑ cells, then the will‑force affects the conscious mind and the conscious mind influences the nerve‑fibres. Mind being excited, the body also becomes excited at once. If one becomes angry, the face becomes red; in fear, one becomes pale. The nerves become affected from all sides. All kinds of thoughts ‑ good, bad, worse, worst affect the mind. Nerve‑cells being affected, affect the will‑force then and there; the will‑force, again, affects the conscious mind forthwith and the conscious mind starts pressurizing the nerves immediately. 
 For instance, when a cultured man becomes very angry, he at once starts abusing others like a fool. His anger was already stored in his mind. The moment it got scope of expression, there occurred commotion in the nerves. This happens for every person. The effect of external environment is always Tanma'trika. The external impact is always carried to the brain by the Jina'nendriyas through the media of sound, touch, form, taste and smell Tanma'tras. And from there, they are carried to the mind through efferent nerves. 

The moment the mind (Citta) adopts the vibrative forms, a corresponding vibration takes place in the nerve‑cells through Sam'jina' Na'd'iis (afferent nerves). Everyone must have experienced this sometime or other. The very sight of a person you do not like makes one irritated. Here the nerve‑cells become affected by the vibrations from the optical nerves. The very sight of obscene pictures creates mental degeneration. Listening to bad songs, smelling bad odors, etc. inevitably create mental degradation.A habitual tea‑taker becomes easily attracted to tea by its very flavour, emanated from inside the teapot. A sympathetic vibration is created, similar to the one in one's nerves, at the time of taking tea; subsequently, the will‑force becomes affected in no time. The desire that "I shall take tea" being much stronger than the desire that "I shall not take tea", then and there the conscious mind becomes affected. As the inevitable result thereof, the vocal cord becomes clearly affected and the person mechanically orders a cup of tea. The same psychology prevails with a drunkard. The moment he comes near a wine‑shop, the very smell from the wine‑house attracts him very much. All the five Tanma'tras have their respective holds on human mind. Therefore one must withdraw one's Jina'nendriyas from the unwholesome influence of the harmful Tanma'tras.

This relative world of Tanma'tras is telepathized in the senses; that is, this world exists because the Indriyas exist. The existence of the world would have lost its meaning in the absence of your senses. Does the world exist to one who has lost his vision? No, because his blind eyes cannot receive the incoming Tanma'tras and as such to a blind person, the world ceases to exist. There remains only a dark void. The existence of the world for you is relative ‑ it is conditional. Whatever there is in this universe ‑ sound, colour, touch, smell depends solely on the existence of Indriyas. 

All the Tanma'trika expressions in this universe are constantly reflected in your Indriyas. That is why the Indriyas are Prati Sam'vedii (telepathic) to the external world. Indriyas discharge their functions because there is Citta, there is mind. Through Indriyas alone, without the assistance of Citta, one can neither perceive the incoming Tanma'tra nor transmit one's reactions externally. A dead body, in spite of having the eyes, can not see anything because mind has stopped functioning. That is why, the mind is Pratisam'vedii (telepathic) to the Indriyas. And the A'tma', or soul, is Pratisam'vedii to the mind. In the absence of the A'tma', there would be no feeling even inspite of the existence of mind. And the Atma' is telepathized on Parama'tma'.

In the absence of Parama'tma, there would be no pure 'I' feeling, no 'Knower‑I' even though there would be A'tma' telepathized on Parama'tma'. In the absence of 'Knower‑I', the 'Known‑I' can not exist and without 'Known‑I', Indriyas can not exist. In absence of Indriyas, the relative world has no meaning. In this way, one is telepathic to another and there is inter‑dependence on one another. Only the Parama'tma' or Parama Purus'a is omni‑telepathic. In absence of Parama Purus'a, the existence of any other entity would remain unsubstantiated. That is why, Parama Purus'a has another name, Krs'n'a. Krs' means to be. He exists, that is why you exist; the verb 'to be' is applied in His case; therefore it is used in your case also, "Sah tis't'hati, anena ka'ran'ena aham' tis't'ha'mi".

Mind gains experience through the Jina'nendriyas. One experiences a feeling when the nerve‑cells are vibrated. The ectoplasmic stuff of the mind adopts the vibration of a particular wavelength corresponding to the vibration of the same wavelength in the nerve‑cells. For instance, you are seeing an elephant outside. The Tanma'trika vibrations of the elephant reach the nerve‑cells through the optical nerves. The light‑waves radiated from the outside elephant must be exactly identical to the figure of the elephant. It works like a camera. The ectoplasmic stuff of your mind takes the exact form of the elephant. The ectoplasmic stuff adopts the vibrative form of the same wave‑length as those of the actual elephant. 

In Sam'skrta the root verb `bhu' means `to be'. By adding the suffix `ktin', the verbal noun, thus created, is always in feminine gender. "Bhu'+ktin=Bhu'ti"which means `being'. Mind receives the vibrational forms of objects through A'jina' Na'd'ii (motor nerves) and Prajina' Na'd'ii (sensory nerves). In Sam'skrta, the prefix `Anu' means Pashca'ta (following). First, the concept of an elephant reaches the gate of eye‑organ. The external elephant. This is an Anubhu'ti (reappearing) of an elephant. The vibrational force of the Anubhu'ta Vis'aya (experienced object) being more powerful than your will‑force will influence the latter and order the conscious mind. Then your limbs will start functioning according to your internal reaction (Anubhu'ti).

If there are previous Sam'ska'ras the expression will be quick. Those who had bad company will be easily influenced at the first sight of an obscene picture. This is the reason why the bad people (who are trying to be good), or the new Sa'dhakas, are to be kept isolated or well‑guarded just as the land is fenced around to keep the tender plants well‑protected from the animals; later on, the domestic animals can be tied to these plants when they grow into big trees.

All the motor organs start working according to the idea received by the Prajina' Na'dii. The sensory organs work as follows: The eyes see, the ears hear, the acoustic waves reach the brain whereby mind will judge whether it is Dhrupada or A'varii, Kawa'li or T'humrii. Owing to the variation in vibrations, one becomes different from the other; the nose smells, (A tiger is called "Vya'ghra" because it has a special capacity of smell), the tongue tastes and discriminates a thing whether sweet or sour. The skin touches and gets tactual experience. All external Tanma'tras are being internal. When the nerves are already vibrated and the will‑force is strong enough, the nerve‑vibrations will influence the will‑force and the person will be drifted towards degradation, he will be ruined. 

Mind can easily run after Jad'a (crude objects) because the entire nervous‑structure is always ready to assist him. But in the path of God‑realization, it can not help in any way. Only by one's own efforts through the practices of Iishvara‑Pran'idha'na and Dhya'na, one will have to rise to a higher level, without any assistance of the nerves. If somebody mentally thinks of assaulting a person, at once he will lift his hands to beat him. The nerves control the hands and feet. But if someone wishes to offer "Varn'a'rghya", it will not be so easy. If someone wishes to communicate his mental feelings, he will not be able to contact Him forthwith because the nervous system does not come to his aid. This is the physico‑psychic reason why the human mind goes downwards easily. The conscious mind being influenced by the nerve‑vibrations, the Karmendriyas start functioning accordingly. 
Take for instance the Va'k Indriya. Here Va'k means the vocal cord. In that case, the vocal cord starts using abusive language. When you are excited or provoked, you lose control over the vocal organ, your will‑force has drifted away. Though you know very well that it does not befit you at all to behave that way, still you mechanically commit that. When that vibration of excitement has subsided, and will‑force regains normalcy, you judge and feel that you should not have behaved that way. This state of mental re‑thinking over past incidents is `repentance'. If one thinks rationally before doing any action, one need not repent later on, for his irrational behaviour.
 The normal functions of Karmendriyas are 1. Va'k ‑ Kathana (speaking), 2. Pa'n'i ‑ Shilpana. Whatever our hands do is Shilpana. If it is under control, very excellent services may be available. On the contrary, if it is influenced and channelized in a wrong way, Shilpana will be destructive. A singer is wrongly called a Shilpii because to be a shilpii, one must utilize one's hands. 3. Pa'da (leg) ‑ Its function is Calana. If these organs are misguided, they can be misused for kicking others. Otherwise they render useful service. 4. Pa'yu ‑ Its function is excretion. and 5. Upastha (Genital organ) ‑ its function is both excretion and procreation. 
When one's will‑ force will exercise its positive control, it can nicely get any work done through their media, according to its liking. But if you work under excitement or provocation, then these Indriyas will not remain under your control. You will degrade yourself if you work indiscriminately under any external stimulus. So it is desirable that you must not see pictures that will influence your will‑force. So that your sense organs might not be attached to physical objects, you must withdraw them well in advance. When the tendency is towards cruder objects, it is called Pravrtti, and when the tendency is towards its Prati‑Sam'vedii (Telepathic Entity) it is called Nivrtti.
 The extrovertive momentum takes your Indriyas towards the external world and their introvertive momentum takes the Indriyas towards the Citta. For Citta, the extrovertive momentum means to proceed towards Indriyas and the introvertive momentum means to proceed towards A'tma'. Similarly, for A'tma', the extrovertive momentum is to associate with the mind; and introvertive momentum means to merge in Parama'tma'. In this connection Buddha's advice to the spiritual aspirants is: 

Cakkhuna' sam'varo sa'dhu, Sa'dhu shotena sam'varo
Gha'nena sam'varo sa'dhu, Sa'dhu jihvaya' sam'varo
Ka'yena sam'varo sa'dhu, Sa'dhu va'ca'ya sam'varo
Manasa' sam'varo sa'dhu, Sa'dhu sabbattha sam'varo

1. O Sa'dhaka, you must not look at those things that will cause your degradation;
2. You must not hear those words which will bring about your mental degradation;
3. You must withdraw your nose from those things the very smell of which may send you to the depth of degradation;
4. You must not taste those things that can lead your mind towards degradation.
5. You must withdraw yourself from that work, the very performance of which brings about your inevitable downfall.
6. You must not employ your vocal cord for uttering any word that may cause your degeneration;
7. You must not cherish any idea or thought in your mind that might degrade you;
8. You must withdraw yourself from all unwholesome effects, you must regulate yourself, you must keep yourself under perfect control.



A'NTARIKA MA'NASIKA SHAOCA (INTERNAL PSYCHIC CLEANLINESS):
The Tanma'tras of sound, touch, form, taste, and smell from the external world entered into your being in the past and left impressions in your mind. If owing to congenial environments or circumstantial impact, or owing to the upward motion of the wind in your body, those vibrations reoccur, then those impressions are revived again in the mind. It is just possible that you might have seen something in the past that aroused powerful thoughts in mind and they might harm you in their effect in the present also. If owing to environmental conditions, or upward motion of the wind, or generation of extreme heat in the body, those thoughts reappear, they also will be similarly harmful. That is why, it is best not to see or hear or take any Indriya to anything degrading.
But in case the eyes or other sense‑organs come across anything undesirable, what will you do? You may have withdrawn your mind from the object; but its impression is already there in the mind. Supposing, you once saw an evil picture; suddenly the same evil picture may flash in your mind. What is the way out then? In case of external psychic Shaoca, the gateways of Indriyas must be closed; its extrovertive momentum should be introverted. When the persons perform some actions, according to their Sam'ska'ras, their reactions remain in potential form. When those reactive momenta are revived, there occurs a vibration in the nerve‑cells. That commotion may influence the will‑force, the conscious mind and the nervous system. It may goad you on to evil actions. There are, for example, some boys who are eager to lead a good life. But suddenly some past Sam'ska'ra arises in their minds. In the path of spiritual Sa'dhana', one must take an idea which is just opposite in character to the one already in the mind. In that case, the internal vibration will be neutralized. One should remember the following instructions: ‑ 

Maetrii karun'a'muditopeks'an'am
Sukhaduhkha pun'ya'pun'ya vis'aya'n'a'm
Bhavana'tashcitta prasa'danam.

What will you do with Maetrii, Karun'a', Mudita and Upeks'a? With them you will neutralize the Sukha, Duhkha, Pun'ya and Pa'pa. You should take that idea which runs counter to the existing idea in your mind. Suppose, somebody is very happy. At the sight of his happiness, you feel jealous, so much so that you cannot sleep soundly at night. The only way to get rid of this disturbing situation is to superimpose the idea of Maetrii (friendliness). So one must convince oneself saying that "He is my friend, he is my fast friend," etc. At that time, the mind will lose its sense of enmity. The will‑force will be affected thereby. You have already taken a thought in your mind opposite to the former one that was likely to affect the will‑force. 
Suppose, somebody is in trouble. What should be your attitude towards him at that time? Should you be happy with the thought that as he gave you trouble, created a lot of difficulties for you, God justly punished him? No, rather you should be compassionate to him. You must have a sympathetic attitude towards him. Through this Vrtti of Karun'a' (compassion), you should neutralize the previous vibration. Your will‑force will be unaffected. The next is Mudita'. Suppose, somebody is progressing, prospering in life. Others become envious of it. They become jealous by thinking that Mr. so and so is prospering. They try to create difficulties for him. They spare no means to pull him down so that it becomes difficult for him to advance a step forward. What should you do then? You should encourage them. This opposite thought will neutralize the mental condition, the will‑force will remain unaffected. Again, suppose, somebody is committing a sin, you neglect it. This is Upeks'a'.

Akkodhena jine kodham, Asa'dhum sa'dhuna' jine
Jine kadariiyam da'nena, Saccena aliika va'dinam.

You must win over a miser by making more liberal charities. The public will be in your favour. If he gives you something to eat, you give him plenty. You must conquer an angry man by your controlled temper, a dishonest man by your exemplary honesty, a liar by your unparalleled truthfulness.


